ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e85	The called alternate of the West Agder counties, Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the welfare permit of the representative Arne Sortevik from 18 February to 24 February from the Group of the European Right on the leave of the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland from 27 February to 5 March to take part in the 54th session of the United Nations Commission on Women's Rights in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet from 18 February to 24 February: For the county of Hordaland: Helge Andre Njåstad. The following alternate shall be convened to meet from 1 March to 5 March: for the South Trondelag County: Lars Bjarne Tvete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e124	Helge Andre Njåstad is present and will take the seat. The representative, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e129	On behalf of Per Arne Olsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of social contracts to improve interaction between the public sector and the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e134	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e137	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Bård Hoksrud, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I would like to make proposals for the immediate start of security improvements in Telemark Prison, Department Skien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e142	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e145	On behalf of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Per Arne Olsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I will make a proposal to ensure the further operation of Aker Hospital in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e150	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e154	On behalf of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Lars Myraune, Siri A. Meling, Bjørn Lødemel and myself, I would like to propose an action plan to prevent a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal. On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Frank Bakke Jensen, Olemic Thommessen, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Ivar Kristiansen, Elisabeth Aspaker, Svein Harberg and myself, I want to promote a proposal on motor travel in the field and changes to the law that help to strengthen local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e161	The representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e164	On behalf of the representative Siri A. Meling and myself, I would like to make a proposal for adjustments in the Protection Plan for Watercourses which will enable Rauma Energia to implement its plans to move the intake to Verma Power Plant to Storhaugen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e169	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e183	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Minister of Defence should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e196	I want to begin by commending the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good situation description in his presentation. It is difficult to disagree with very much of what the Foreign Minister said, so I will use the debate today to address some of the issues that I think he was not concerned with – or not problematically. I'll get back to that. We are facing major challenges in Afghanistan, and we all agree on that. We're not where we could have been, and where we expected to be, when we started our engagement. The conflict has developed, our opponents have evolved, and we need to develop further in order to deal with a situation that changes rapidly. The Foreign Minister spoke about the continuing need to develop the understanding of Afghanistan, and that is a very important point. However, uniform political signals from Norway are also important. The disagreement about the involvement and effort is not between the Government and the opposition, but it lies within the Government, and it is also between the Government and the parties to the left of them. Last autumn we discussed the new initiative for more forces in Afghanistan in Editorial Section EN. Then there was a discussion about whether Americans should make greater efforts. The Minister of Defence embraced the new initiative: the need for more forces. On the other hand, SV, in the same debate, expressed strong opposition to sending more forces, which is a prerequisite for the approach we now have. But SV would like to see the results of the presence of several soldiers in the country. The important efforts of the Norwegian military forces have been underlined many times, but it can be underlined from the voice of the Storting. The mission is risky, Norway has lost five soldiers, most recently Claes Joachim Olsson. We here today have a special responsibility to recognise the efforts they are making, and we are the ones who have sent them to Afghanistan. This means that we have a practical and economic responsibility, but we also have a great responsibility for the debate that is taking place. We are in Afghanistan because it serves the security of our own and our allies. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, we shall ensure that Afghanistan is not once again a haven for terrorists. It is important to bear in mind that the objective was not a development project but that sustainable security requires stability and development. The challenge now is that it's a circle of instability, where the Afghan government is part of the problem. It infects the Afghans' perception of the government. That gives the Taliban strength. We need to have an honest debate and an honest rhetoric around this, and not use subversive reasons to make our commitment more popular. It is a positive effect of our presence, but that must not be confused with the objectives of why we are there. Not least, as politicians, we need to take into account the seriousness of our decisions. It is important to note that many of the relatives who today have their sons and daughters in Afghanistan feel that responsibility has been delegated to them to explain why their sons and daughters are in Afghanistan. It is a responsibility that politicians must take. There are also points of light in the situation. The Afghans are more positive about the future than ever. It was the Foreign Minister inside in his presentation. It is also the case that there is an increasing maritime role for Parliament, and it is to be called a new jirga. It means a better balance of power – or at least can mean a better balance of power – between Parliament and the President. There are relatively high hopes for the newly constituted government, and there are several countries that signal that they are going to have a stronger direct contact with the state councils, and not just via the president. The Community Defence Initiative, which means local protection against the Taliban, may, if properly implemented, prove to be a joker in the game of security for the Afghans. It's interesting to hear how the government deals with this. The consensus on the full implementation of new strategic approaches is in itself a point of light, and that is a prerequisite for success. It is possible to increase the strengths where everyone has to contribute. The United States now has a disproportionate share of the burden, and the critics now say that the operation is being Americanized. Well, to the extent that it's a problem, the European ally is sitting with the key. The burden distribution is now more uneven than ever. The operation in Marja is actually the first example that the forces can do what is called clear and hold in English, and the first real example of putting the Afghans in the driver’s seat. So the operation is designed to be one Afghan soldier per day. other ISAF soldiers and there is full integration into planning and staff. It's important. But it's also important to create immediate civil effect, and there's a lot of the idea behind the operation. Military operations are immediately followed by a civil wave with both Afghan and Western actors and development organisations implemented as part of the military strategy. It's not exactly in line with the distinction that the Government wants to maintain. I would like to see the Minister for Foreign Affairs discuss this in more detail. The fact that the focus is now distorted from its own strength protection and over to the security of the Afghans is a necessary prerequisite for success, the question is whether we have communicated it well enough. The strategy followed in Afghanistan, the so-called ‘counter-insurgency’ strategy, is demanding. The question is whether we have been willing to realize how demanding it actually is. One of those who have had the most to do with that strategy says that a successful counter-insurgency strategy takes about 15 years. Where we're in that picture now, it's not good to say yet, depending on whether you're raining from 2001 or from 2005. The question is whether the Allied forces have what it takes to stay long enough for the strategy to succeed. The Government should also send a clear signal of the will to continue Norwegian presence and try to clear up the uncertainty created in the 2010 budget document, which said that the Norwegian Manoeuvring Unit should be withdrawn. One of the things the Minister for Foreign Affairs had in mind, which is the basis for a greater problematisation, is that the growth of the Afghan security forces is strong. It has now reached 306 500 people, it is supposed to be about in terms of measurement. 400,000. It will require a recruitment of about 5,500 people per person. months. It will cost between 10 and 12 billion dollars to keep such a security force every year. The question is whether we are prepared to take the bill that the Afghan authorities alone cannot take. So the alternative is that we equip 400,000 people with weapons, we equip them and train them for police and security tasks, but they don't have any wages or jobs. It's a dangerous situation. Norway wants to channel more of the aid via Afghan channels, and it is well possible that it is the only way to do so. But I would like to hear the Foreign Minister problem a little bit more about the situation that it can actually open up more corruption, and how to prevent it in that case. It is a paradox that in many areas the Taliban seems to be offering the stability and institutions that the Afghan State cannot provide. They operate with local legal systems, local tax systems and ombudsmen. It is clear that for the Afghans it is perceived as a security that the state and the authorities cannot provide. Finally, I would like to say a few words about military and civil coordination. Nothing of what's happening in Afghanistan is happening in a vacuum. We are operating against an enemy who does not respect the civil-military distinction, and that is a major challenge. No one – nor on the right – wants military primarily to carry out civilian tasks. The question is just how we take the joint responsibility we have to ensure that the efforts we make, both civil and military, come to the fore and benefit the Afghans. Then there are several things that need to be coordinated. It is a major challenge that UNAMA is weakened in Afghanistan – that the UN is weakened – and that this will reduce its ability to coordinate. But it is also a challenge that, on the part of the Norwegian authorities, we are unable to coordinate the efforts between departments well enough. An example of this is the Faryab strategy, which is essentially a collection of input from three different departments, but which is not an overall strategy. The ongoing discussion in NATO is now essentially left out in the Foreign Minister's presentation. Much of the ongoing discussion is not about who does what, but what is done. Of course, there's an impatience in NATO, because you want things to go forward, but there's also a big discussion about coordination and effort and what we can do to make things work better. I think it is important to be aware that the situation in Afghanistan is complicated. This means that our solutions and our approach must be both informed and based on solutions other than those we have chosen today that may be necessary for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e241	There has traditionally been a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign and security policy, including Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan. It's important when we engage internationally, which always raises many difficult fundamental questions, that there is the widest possible consensus. Nevertheless, we hear and read that Eriksen Soreide and Right are critical of the line that the Government is leading in Afghanistan. At the same time, it is difficult to see any alternative Afghanistan policy from the Right. So my question is, what really is Right disagree with? I now give the chairman of the committee the opportunity to clarify: if the Right disagrees with the policy being pursued, what would be the Right Policy in the demanding situation that is now in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e246	It's interesting to hear a representative of a government party in a government that has the greatest disagreement about the strategy internally in its government, try to say that it's the Right that disagrees. We haven't expressed any disagreement in the strategy; on the contrary, I used a lot of my post to tell you that uniform political signals are important. What we have said, on the other hand, is that the government wants to maintain between civil and military efforts. I spent the end of my contribution explaining the importance of coordinating efforts both civil and military, so that the total Norwegian effort can be used in a way that benefits the Afghans. Today, the Government operates with – and chooses to maintain – a so-called watertight bulkhead between civil and military efforts. From more and more teams we hear that there is a division that works on the paper here at home, but not on the ground in Afghanistan. There's a distinction that I think is going to be challenged more and more in the future, both because more and more of our allies go beyond such a distinction, and because we see that what's going to happen to improve our efforts is a stronger coordination at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e255	I'm going to hang on to what the representative was at the end – this distinction between military and civil action. At the London Conference in January, several organisations made recordings, including: warned against militarisation of humanitarian aid. A report by Care, the Afghan Ministry of Education and the World Bank shows that the Afghans consider schools and educational institutions built with the support of the military PRTs as more vulnerable to attacks. We have been concerned on the Norwegian side that it is not a military task to carry out civil assistance at the tactical level, as Kai Eide also praised in a lecture in the Afghanistan Committee in February. Then we hear repeatedly the representative Eriksen Soreide call for closer civil-military cooperation, and not just on the coordination side. Does Eriksen Soreide think that the help organizations and Kai Eide are wrong about this issue, while she is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e262	The discussion of civil and military cooperation is taking place at very many levels, and I think it is important to be aware of one thing: in the so-called humanitarian space there are many actors. We have the pure humanitarian organizations that provide emergency assistance, that provide assistance there and then, when things are serious. Then we have the development actors. It is important to be aware that the development actors are, by their very nature, political. It may seem strange from a Norwegian point of view to say that a development organisation has a political mission when, for example: builds girls' schools in Afghanistan. But the situation is that there is a deep intervention in a country's policy and in a country's way of organizing itself. It's controversial, and that means that when we're facing an enemy who doesn't distinguish between civil and military – the attack on the UN guest house on 28 October last year, where the UN becomes a target in itself and the UN is attacked, it's a very good example of that – it's important to ensure better coordination, so that the efforts we make come out. We don't want military personnel to do civil tasks, but when that's all it takes to get the job done, I think the discussion of coordination needs to come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e274	When the Norwegian soldier Claes Joachim Olsson was killed by a road bomb on January 25, the operation in Afghanistan came brutally close to home in Fredrikstad. It was a strong reminder of the cost of helping Afghans to create a society of social and economic development and build a country that is not once again a base for international terrorism — and thus a threat to all of us. Let's not forget, either, that the Afghans carry the heaviest burdens, even in the form of lost lives, civilians as military. Those who serve in our forces in Afghanistan see the better value of their efforts. They see the girls on their way to school, the kids who are being vaccinated, the agriculture that's going up sharply, and the road system that's being developed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs went thoroughly through the challenges we face in what he described as an operation that is among the most complex that can be expected. The recent London International Conference is leading the operation into a new phase: greater emphasis on Afghan responsibility for its own security and economic and political development; greater emphasis on training and guidance from foreign forces; greater emphasis on Afghan governance also in development projects; and, equally important, better coordination of international efforts – coordination between military and civil efforts and between countries – and a stronger coordinating role for the UN. This is not radically new. Norway has been training and advising Afghan police and security forces for several years. It's a direction that we've long defended the necessity of. It's a pleasure that this is happening now, and that we can get a rate change in this. There is a need to take back what has been lost because of too fragmented an effort and too little focus on civil and political needs. Many countries are participating in the operation in Afghanistan. They can do a lot, both on the military and on the civil side. But the most important part of the job is only the Afghans themselves can do: the task of creating a broad political solution, which also has to embrace the rebel groups. And it is only the Afghans themselves who can create the groundwork for a peace and reconciliation process – which also has to be done if the political solution is to be sustainable. Our task is to help create the necessary security room for this work, a contribution that is increasingly to be concerned with mentoring, so that the Afghans themselves can discharge this responsibility. Our responsibilities may be among the first places where this happens. Our forces have gained great recognition for their efforts over the years. We're going to be proud of that, and I'm going to take this opportunity to commend the hundreds of Norwegian young people who, over all these years, have undertaken this task in Afghanistan, on behalf of Norway and the international community. The fact that there is a broad political consensus here at home about the efforts we are making is important. It provides broad support to those who serve in a demanding and dangerous mission at home, not only in the political environment, but also in the population, as today's poll confirms. There are many countries that contribute, and all contributions are needed. Nevertheless, it is the American contributions that will be crucial for the final success of the operation – both military and civil. Therefore, the key to the success of the new emphasis on efforts will be the fact that the US contributions are also involved in the broader coordination that needs to be achieved. The role and capacity of the UN must also be strengthened. The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide thought the government should send a clear signal about our will to stay long enough. I'm a little bit over this call, because this is repeatedly made clear by the Government: we went in with our allies, and we're going out with our allies, in agreement with the Afghan authorities. Let me also point out that the regional dimension is important for resolving the situation in Afghanistan. A stable Afghanistan also demands stability in the region. It is a responsibility that the countries of the region must be willing to take. Here, too, international societies can only be a supporter. The demanding operation in Afghanistan is entering a new phase. This phase will not be less demanding, but it will hopefully provide the basis for us to see real progress in the next few years in the ability of Afghan authorities to take care of the security of the population and to be the main driving force in the social and economic development of the country. It is enough that this will be essential for the local leaders of the complex power structure in Afghanistan to choose the right side of the ongoing power struggle, the side that wants to build an Afghanistan that can provide security for all its inhabitants, women like men, young as old.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e304	There has been a broad consensus that Afghanistan has the main priority in terms of our military engagement out there. For reasons of capacity, it is not natural to go so much further than we are now. Nevertheless, it comes from time to time to other proposals and initiatives that we should engage in conflicts on other continents that also need assistance. I want to challenge the representative whether he agrees with the following: If we have more capacities, should we not then give priority to filling the blanks that – after all – are in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e311	I believe we have every reason to be proud of what we contribute, and have contributed, in Afghanistan. And we're going to live by our obligations there. To increase the military share of the contributions – in relation to requests to contribute in other conflict areas – I find it difficult to decide, without knowing what we are facing. It has to be judged there every now and then. Hopefully, developments in Afghanistan will enter a phase in which less emphasis will be placed on the military sector and more emphasis on training, mentoring, etc. It will also lead to changes in what kind of forces we are going to send to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e320	The representative was concerned about the importance of coordination civilly and militarily, but also between countries. Then it is tempting to ask the representative: What concrete measures for increased coordination are we going to get from the Government, from the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e325	I don't know if it's right that we here in Stortingen should be quite detailed about this, I think we should leave it to those who are out in the field, and their superior authorities here at home. But the most important coordination should be seen at an overall level, in which we must therefore help to argue for the UN to be given a stronger coordinating role, that the United Nations' capacity to coordinate is increased, and that all countries' willingness to be closely involved in such coordination is increasing. I think that will be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e332	Like the representative Eriksen Soreide, I am concerned about the relationship between civil and military action, but with something different than the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have a question for the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the light of the clear message from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we must avoid contact and protect the humanitarian space: does the representative of Hansen think that there is a connection or protection of the humanitarian space when Norwegian officers and military, otherwise, in military uniforms and doctors, operate in Afghan hospitals to win the conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e339	This distinction is important, especially in relation to humanitarian efforts. The question will be which units will do what. We have to be sure that there will not be a mix of military roles and civil roles in a way that makes you misunderstand who it is that does what. That doesn't mean, of course, that military personnel shouldn't be contributing to situations where life and death can be involved, and in acute situations, but I think it's an advantage that we're keeping civilian doctors in civil hospitals and military doctors in military hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e347	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a solid account of the challenges in Afghanistan. There was little news about what is going to be Norwegian policy in this area, and there is a signal that the Government is essentially continuing the current policy. That is the content of the Progress Party. We will also stress the importance of broad political support for the Afghanistan exposure, not least for the Norwegian military contribution. The responsibility of government and big business when sending Norwegian women and men to sharp assignments abroad is great, and there are some of the heaviest decisions we make. The Northmen who have lost their lives in Afghanistan are a brutal reminder of the nature of this mission. That is also why our Afghanistan exposure should be well-founded and based on a strategy that I believe can be successful. We, who believe it is right to be present both militarily and civilly in Afghanistan, are constantly challenging ourselves on the decisions we are making, and we are expected to be challenged within and outside the political environment. That is why I believe there are correct and important questions from two prominent representatives from SV who asked in the VG last week. They believe that warfare has made things worse. This is important to answer, and we also need that debate. If the debate should come from within the ranks of the government parties and thus once again contribute to creating a distinction between the government parties' strategy, that is another question. I feel that the statement well justifies why we are in Afghanistan, and the statement also rightly states that the image of Afghanistan in 2010 is diverse. It's not all stories that come out just as well in our news picture. That's why it's important to take the whole thing with us when we decide to go further. Last August, NATO's commander in Afghanistan, Stanley McCrystal, presented proposals for a new military strategy. This is now being realized. He asked for increased strength contributions from NATO countries of between 40,000 and 80,000 new military. According to McChrystal, 40,000 people would have a middle chance of success. He now gets 30,000 new ones from the Obama administration, and preferably the other NATO countries would cover 10,000 more. We're not there -- maybe the other countries can handle half of this. This is serious and challenges the new strategy. Unfortunately, there is not enough will or capacity for all NATO countries to provide the necessary resources. This could have consequences when it comes to the type of military activity to be carried out. Now the opinion is to a greater extent to be present among the Afghans and to provide security there, and to a lesser extent to operate the form of warfare that has been strongly criticized, including at home, in order to hit civilian Afghans. It is therefore important that all NATO countries make efforts to deliver on the new strategy. Adopting the seat of the Tribunal and making more or less constructive criticism of the U.S. warfare cannot be an alternative to any NATO country. The less the rest of NATO countries make up, the more there will be the war of the United States. If we want a stronger European component, it is up to the European NATO countries to deliver capacities. We recognise that Norway does not have much more soldiers to contribute to today’s situation. It's a result of years of down-priority of defense. But to the extent that capacities become available for foreign operations, it is our view that it is in Afghanistan that we must give priority to using these forces, and not create the impression that Norway will be able to extend its limited resources into new conflicts. A result of a lack of efforts by many NATO countries is that the need for security is being met by others, not least from private companies. In Afghanistan it is estimated that there are well over 100 000 so-called contractors or mercenaries, and then I am not talking about those who are on the enemy's side. Now there may be good reasons to let private do some tasks like watchkeeping, etc., but letting warfare in this way be privatized cannot be a desired development. But security must be ensured, and this will be one of the solutions. This is a challenge that NATO needs to discuss on a fundamental basis, and it must be a reflection of political leaders in all NATO countries. If the wars of the future are mainly to be conducted with remote-guided drones and mercenaries, we are facing a whole new set of questions, not least ethical ones. We share the view that a solution to the conflict must be political, and it could challenge us. It is important to stress that Afghan authorities must be in the driver's seat in relation to such policy solutions. Those are the ones who need to take the initiative to talk to those rebel groups that they think it makes sense to talk to. But we also need to stress that a solution must have some basic prerequisites, and it is about democracy and human rights, not least women's and girls' rights. There's no room here to negotiate away. It is not an option for us to accept a solution that threatens the schooling of Afghan girls, to take one clear example. The danger is that a political solution will be negotiated only by Afghan men and that certain rights and freedoms will be sacrificed. It is also a demanding terrain to balance political stability and justice, not least in relation to all the rebels and terrorists who should be held accountable for their actions in an ideal situation. However, it is important to seek to address the frustration experienced by many Pashtuners in Afghanistan. It is necessary to bring the pashtunes heavier into the Afghan army, and to a greater extent than today make them part of the new Afghanistan. We will also underline what the Foreign Minister says about military presence being imposed on the path towards a political solution. The rapid withdrawal of foreign military forces will be a safe recipe for total failure. Then, after all, the progress achieved will certainly be reversed. In the presentation, the need for a functioning business and jobs was not particularly affected. We believe that one condition for an Afghan state to survive even after the donor countries lose interest is that it builds a business life and that jobs are created. It is not possible to underestimate its ring effects. For example, this is a case in point. on the ability of the Afghan State to obtain income through tax. However, as a liberalist, I will quickly add that Afghanistan should not necessarily draw all the inspiration from Norway here — but tax is, after all, important, and a prerequisite for a state to function. Norwegian energy efforts are important in this way, and this was well underlined in the presentation. In other ways, however, Norway should also consider whether we can have anything to contribute, not least in investing risk capital made available to existing companies and entrepreneurs. We focus strongly on democracy and human rights, and that is right. However, a major factor in a liberal and functioning state is the market economy, and in countries like Afghanistan it must be stimulated – not with gift assistance, but with targeted measures. It's e.g. a challenge that Afghan farmers who move from opium production to other legal products find it difficult to find a market. They'll be, for example, uncompetitive by Pakistani farmers. Here is an opportunity to provide assistance to make Afghan farmers competitive. I am a member of free, global trade and fierce competition. But there is something that is not right when the international civilians and military in Afghanistan primarily act in Dubai and elsewhere outside Afghanistan, instead of providing technical assistance to local businesses that can be able to serve their home market. While border trade can be challenging enough for the trading position here at home, it can be directly destabilising in a country such as Afghanistan. The combination of risk capital and technical assistance will have a good stabilising effect because we know that lack of work and other means of income are factors that contribute more to Taliban recruitment than theological beliefs. Corruption in many countries is a barrier to growth, and in the case of Afghanistan, it is also a challenge to trust Afghan authorities at different levels. Acceptance for some corruption will in the long term be devastating. So zero tolerance is the only dangerous path. If the Afghan Government is to gain confidence, not least in its own population, it must always appear to be pure. Unfortunately, it's a little bit ahead of you. There is a point in stating that Afghan authorities remain weak because donors do not trust them enough, so that money goes beyond the authorities. So they end up in an evil circle. It is probably important on our part to clarify that a prerequisite for the success of Afghan authorities lies in a tough fight against corruption. When it's credible, donors will send money through the authorities. I think it's going to be wrong to think that it'll be easier to fight corruption if they get more money. The regional challenge is constant and very demanding. When we look at developments in Pakistan, we are challenged whether the Taliban is actually a bigger challenge there than in Afghanistan. But in any case, a political solution must have elements of regional participation and acceptance. One of the most demanding seems to be to include all parts of the Pakistani state apparatus in a common strategy. But the international community must also meet the security challenges of Pakistan in a constructive way. This must mean improved relations between the governments of Kabul and Islamabad, but also a willingness to talk about Kashmir. Pakistan's challenge with Afghanistan is not so much about an Afghan threat, but it is very much about relations with India. That's why India-Pakistan has to be part of what you're working on when a political solution is going to work. Although the Taliban and Iran do not want each other well, we should also not underestimate Iran's desire for continued instability in Afghanistan, and a wish from Iran that the United States and NATO are the most involved in Afghanistan and not elsewhere. This recognition must also be included when we draw up how we deal with Iran. Although the Central Asian neighbours in the north are less demanding than Pakistan and Iran, there is also little help to get there. In part, weak governments characterised by corruption and the absence of democracy do not contribute to making Afghanistan’s neighbourhood particularly good. It is therefore a real problem that there are no neighbours who appear to be natural role models for a modern Afghanistan. For this reason, too, it is important to work regionally to promote stability and more democracy. Success in Afghanistan is demanding and the recipe complex. However, two assumptions appear to be fundamental. The first is that there must be a common strategy that is realized between the Government of Afghanistan and the international partners. The second is that there is a completely different coordination between all countries and institutions involved in Afghanistan in the future than has been the case in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e386	If the statement by the representative Höglund that tax is important for a good society is cleared with the financial fraction of the party, it may be more the coin of creating more peaceful relations with the Right than in Afghanistan. The representative, Høglund, said, quite correctly, that there is a need for better coordination and ended the article with it. There is a broad consensus that the UN must play a stronger role in this work. The Progress Party is not among the warmest and strongest defenders in the United Nations, but does the representative Höglund believe that the UN is the international organisation that has to play that role in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e393	On the civil side, we have confidence that the UN will play a heavy role. We have also said that explicitly. We don't have a United Nations criticism that we're going to abolish the UN or tone down the UN commitment where the United Nations can make a difference. We believe that parts of the UN system – and that criticism I think we share with many others – do not work as we would have liked, and try to point it out in different ways, but that the UN has a role to play, for example. in Afghanistan, we fully agree with that. We have tried, in our way, to support under the UN's commitment to Afghanistan and to help ensure that coordination is in every way better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e399	I went to the website of the Progress Party in preparing for this debate to see what was going on about Afghanistan. Then I found something interesting: the party of progress ‘Will continue Norway’s involvement through NATO and ISAF in Afghanistan, despite the fact that the Government Party SV was founded on the basis of resistance to NATO’. It is alarming that SV will be given so much weight in the party program to the Progress Party! What my question is about is that on the website of the Progress Party you can read in a December look-up: ‘Siv Jensen fears that Norway will respond to any request to send more soldiers to Afghanistan. She says it is Norway’s responsibility to increase the contribution to the strength.’ The representative, Mr Höglund, said in his statement here that we must acknowledge that Norway does not have more soldiers to contribute, but nevertheless there is an explicit goal for the Progress Party with several Norwegian soldiers. My specific question is: How much strength does the Progress Party think Norway should actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e416	I will not go into what is ideal – Norway is a small country. But as I have been involved in both the line change with the representative Hansen and in my post, Afghanistan must have the main priority for our foreign exposure. When we record that some parties, even sometimes SV, are looking to find other places where Norwegian soldiers can make an effort, for example. with blue helmets for the UN – nothing wrong with it – we believe it undermines our efforts in Afghanistan. If we are to do the job in Afghanistan in such a way that we can succeed, as the new strategy has been established, we must also be silent with resources that contribute to it. We regret that Norway is not now in a position where we seem to be able to stretch more. It's possible there's something more to pick up, but we think we need to get into a situation where the Defense has a completely different opportunity to contribute to conflicts like in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e421	A thank you to Morten Høglund for the praise of SV for conducting a good political debate on these issues. I have two questions for the representative, Höglund. One concerns the assessment of the need for a new strategy. The representative states that there was an absolute need. Does the representative, Mr Höglund, now have any opinion as to why a new strategy was needed? The second issue concerns the development of civil assistance to Afghanistan. It's been one of the things we've been really busy all along. Does Morten Höglund also agree that there is a need for the rest of the world to provide more civil assistance to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e430	As far as the rest of the world is concerned, we have signalled an increasing and great willingness to contribute to Afghanistan – fortunately. The problem does not necessarily appear to be a lack of funds for Afghanistan, but the means necessarily do not reach, that they are not coordinated, and that they are not used in a way that results that at least the smooth Afghans feel on the body. I believe in those who say that there is a very large potential in coordination. When you have it in place, you have to consider whether it's a resource issue as well. We have tried, at least in recent years, to be fully in line with the proposals made by the Government on the civil efforts of Afghanistan. As for why the strategy was not successful, I think it is on many levels, and many have to take criticism and responsibility for it. One main challenge has been that we have not had an Afghan government that has supplied in line with the expectations we and the Afghan people had.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e439	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e442	I would also like to thank you for a thorough and thorough statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a statement that describes the complex situation in Afghanistan and provides a good starting point for discussing the situation, development and engagement in that country. I want to commend the Foreign Minister for two things. Firstly, the place he devoted to talking about what SV has long said, that there is no military solution to the conflict, that there must be a political solution, anchored in the Afghans, and with negotiations as a central element, and secondly, the focus of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on human rights, and in particular the position of women in Afghanistan. The size was given a similar explanation two years ago, and I think it is interesting to see how the emphasis has moved. This applies not only in the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs but also in the international debate on the situation in Afghanistan. There is much more talk about civil construction, humanitarian efforts and democratic construction – much less about military invasion. The London Conference was a place where this was emphasised that the Afghans themselves must take over security. What really delights SV is that there are now so many who are calling for peace negotiations where the Taliban is also included. In the debate two years ago, several of the representatives asked Ågot Valle questions about SV really thought they would negotiate with the Taliban, which the opposition has continued to ask in recent times. It has been suggested that this is naive and arrogant from SV. Valle then pointed out that several heads of state have said that there will be no peace if you don't talk to the enemy. Now U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton also says the same when she calls for peace negotiations with the Taliban: you don't make peace agreements with your friends. It will be tempting to hear what the opposition is now saying. Is it so headstrongly wrong to talk about negotiating solutions? In this case, it will be a reasonably naive and knowledgeless attitude. There is a crisis of confidence between the international forces and parts of the Afghan civilian population. These include: the background to General McCrystal's support for a re-conversion of the strategy for more security for the civilian population and training of Afghan security forces. On the news today, we heard that even more and more Norwegians are losing faith that the forces will promote peace in Afghanistan. There is a danger that the US escalation will lead to more civilian losses and increased recruitment to the Taliban. It is therefore important that Norway prioritises the creation of ground conditions that allow for a withdrawal, including: through civil action and by supporting the initiatives of the United Nations and Karzai in a peace process with the Taliban. In the December budget debate, I referred to a report on women's rights in Afghanistan from Human Rights Watch, which stated that eight years' presence of Western soldiers has not made life easier for Afghan women. The reason was said to be conservative leaders who want to deny women fundamental rights. For SV, it is important that Norway, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out, is a driver of lifting women’s power and influence in Afghanistan. The position of women must be strengthened. The capacity of women and the possibility of participation are central here. They must participate in all kinds of peace negotiations and reconciliation processes. Parliament's construction is also important from a woman's point of view. Women parliamentarians in Afghanistan have asked Norway to ensure that Parliament is included in decisions and that the United States must do the same. The Ministry of Women of the country, which women parliamentarians have fought to maintain, must be supported. The SV believes that Norway should consider the possibility of channelling financial resources for women through the Ministry of Women. It will give the ministry more power and influence, and give better assurance that the money actually benefits women. In the foreign minister's statement, we were reminded that there are many Afghans who have been better off than before. At the same time, it is a fact that 2009 was the bloodiest year since 2001 with an increase in killed Afghans and international soldiers. On average, nine civilian Afghans were killed every week in 2009. Eight years after the fall of the Taliban, humanitarian needs remain acute. One third of the population live on the starvation line. On average, one Afghan woman dies every half hour in connection with pregnancy complications, one door of tuberculosis, and fourteen children die of diseases that could have been cured. Every year, it's $1 million. USD per year. In the United States, the number of soldiers in the U.S. is estimated to be about the same as the number of soldiers in the U.S., while the number of soldiers in the U.S. is about the same as the number of soldiers in the U.S. 93 USD in development aid per year. afghans per day; years. It is good that Norwegian contributions to Afghanistan are more balanced than that. However, there is still much to be done with regard to international civil aid, and in particular with regard to getting more of this support through Afghan channels, which, fortunately, Norway is a driver for getting more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e471	The representative very commendably addressed several aspects of women’s development in Afghanistan. At the same time, it is known – and it is entirely right for me – that SV is responsible for a different policy in terms of the international military presence, and wants to withdraw it primarily as quickly as possible. How do you imagine that women's position in Afghanistan will be if they make a rapid withdrawal of the international military forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e476	It is obvious that the security of civilians is important in Afghanistan, and the SV has also called for the UN to ensure coordinated action in Afghanistan. We do not believe, however, that Norwegian military forces should be involved in Afghan operations. What is important for Sv now is to achieve civil reconstruction, that the Afghans themselves must ensure the security of their civilians. We need to be a driver for women's rights to be guaranteed in civil construction, to demand that women be heard on equal terms with men. It is one of the important things to raise the position of women in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e481	The representative said that civil protection is important. The representative also said that it costs about 1 million. USD for every American soldier in the country. To secure civilians, you need a presence from the police and from the military. It means increased focus on mentoring, training Afghan security forces. How are both civilian protection to be achieved today, combined with mentoring, if you want to draw strengths quickly, and if you want a significantly less strength contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e488	Now, it is on the government statement that everyone knows, that Norway should be involved in ensuring the security of soldiers and civilians as long as it is required, at the military level we are at per. today. Our position is that we should support UN operations, UN coordinated operations, as regards both civil protection and civil construction, and, of course, through mentoring. We are pleased that the Norwegian angle, and now also from the international side, is increasingly on this mentoring, which requires that the Afghans themselves be trained to have a secure system – their own police forces, their own army – that can also provide civil security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e498	I would like to ask the representative, Mr Andresen, a question concerning the relationship between humanitarian and military action in Afghanistan. In the Day Revy on January 23rd this year there was a longer report showing Norwegian military doctors in full uniform in operating rooms inside civil hospitals. It was shown that this was of course to save lives, but also to win the conflict. It was further pointed out that this is a project to be stepped up further. SV is as a government party in Norway responsible for the war in Afghanistan and Norway's contribution there. Is it convenient for Norwegian military personnel to hold such roles in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e505	I don't want to say that I'm comfortable with the situation that the Højbrått here describes. We have always spoken that a distinction between civil and military action is important, which I also pointed out in my reply to the representative Eriksen Soreide earlier today. Saving lives is, in any case, important. If it is done, as the representative Hansen also pointed out here, by the military, it is a matter of course. But we don't think we should have a relationship. We believe that it should not be a primary task for military doctors to operate civil hospitals. It is entirely in line with what the representative, Hansen, answered a similar question from the representative, Højbrätten earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e515	It has been interesting to sit and follow the debate. It's also been interesting to listen to all the other presentations, to hear how the rhetoric changes. All the batches feel more or less prominent. It is difficult to have non-confidential opinions about how development is in Afghanistan. What are the right measures? What are the right strategies? I think this last week has been a good example of that. After the Taliban detainees were arrested, there are some who have claimed that it is a major breakthrough. Others say that he represents the more moderate forces in the Taliban, and that it may be a setback. The role of Pakistan has been discussed. According to the media I have seen, the Minister of the Interior in Pakistan has rejected participation. So it's almost impossible to get an overview of what's actually happening. The media image of the last week really points to the complexity of the situation. What is penetration? What isn't breakthrough? We must have a good portion of humility when we stand here and debate the situation. The big offensive we've seen this past week suggests that the Taliban is on the defensive. But the question is what comes next. The question is how it affects civilians and, where appropriate, what civil resistance it creates afterwards. In the United Kingdom, and Norway, civil efforts have been made. There has been a lot of emphasis on the UN track and the fact that our funds are going through the UN and the Afghan authorities to build a central state, so that central authorities have the power to implement their actions. We see that the intention is to build up among our allies, but that in practice it is the military solution that is now being given the utmost importance. Norway is a small player. Obviously, our positions depend entirely on the heaviest actors. It is their strategies that are crucial. Hopefully we're now in a shift so we're turning a negative trend, but it's the big, big uncertainty around. The Norwegian soldier has full support from a total Norwegian staging. The Norwegian contribution is important and correct from the point of view of the Centre Party. The efforts of many Nordics in Afghanistan are of great importance. But I'm concerned that we have a humble relationship with how we measure success in Afghanistan. For Afghanistan, there has never been a central state, and the country has long been affected by corruption. If you talk to Afghanistan experts, they say that it's a natural part of the economy, that they don't fully understand how the economy is going on. Women have never been equal to men, and democracy has been a foreign word. So when we're measuring our success in Afghanistan, we can't base our democratic standards. We cannot believe that we can achieve a fully equal society and a country free from corruption. We have to start from the country we're in to measure the success we want to achieve. Of course, we should reach out for the good goals, have the perfect goal, but my main idea is at least that there are several reasons why we went into Afghanistan. In the beginning, one of the main reasons was the Article 5 operation, the alliance relationship. We went there to support under the NATO alliance. Later, we have entered into an ISAF operation with a UN mandate. So our own security and NATO loyalty is an important reason why Norwegian soldiers are where they are. The contribution to the individual soldier in Afghanistan is a contribution to our own long-term security, both in the fight for Afghanistan not to be tempted to develop terror and for strengthening our own alliance. The success of the mission in Afghanistan, I think, lies in achieving a stable security situation in the country and improving the living conditions of the Afghans. In order to achieve this, an elementary level of health, education and government structure must be in place. We are working with Afghan actors to try to achieve that. I have had many meetings with defence and military personnel who have contributed in Afghanistan over the last few years. My sincere feelings after those meetings are that the soldiers who are going down are going down with both an idealistic approach and a desire to contribute. As a group, we have a very great responsibility for those we send down, and more have lost their allies. Local communities have been affected. My own, Strange, has also been hit, by losing a soldier. And if we are to be able to measure the success in Afghanistan and stand upright in relation to what we do, it is important that we get all the dimensions of this war.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e534	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and good review of a very difficult situation in Afghanistan. The presentation clearly shows the complexity of the situation and the major challenges we face. The complexity and past animal-bought experience give us every reason for humility in view of the strenuous work of continuing the course. It is worrying that the Taliban has strengthened themselves militarily, and it is very challenging to meet their new strategy that aims to create chaos, attention and a sense of hopelessness. Irregularities surrounding the choice and detection of corruption weaken the government we are trying to support. And it's particularly tragic that the number of civilians killed is increasing. However, there is reason to highlight, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs did, more positive developments in Afghanistan. There are important signs of economic progress, although progress should be accelerated. It is gratifying that more and more Afghan children are receiving schooling. And it's particularly positive that there are signs that Afghans most have a more positive and optimistic view of the future. The aim of our presence in Afghanistan is clear: to ensure political and economic development in Afghanistan that makes it a safe place of residence for its citizens and not a safe port of terrorism. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, our military forces in Afghanistan are there to create a sufficient security room for such developments to be possible. This is the broad consensus. I am pleased that this debate also underlines the broad upsurge in the Grand Duchy of the demanding mission of our soldiers, and the support they have in this respect from political Norway. Let me then present some critical challenges. It is important to have objectives and instruments clearly. The goal is not for our soldiers to win hearts and minds. NATO forces must certainly work to gain confidence in the population, but it is primarily to make the task of creating this security space easier. It is the political and economic development in Afghanistan that is the main objective, and it is when this development has come far enough that we can complete the mission. When military forces engage in humanitarian tasks, they are in danger of making them a means and not an end in themselves. Then you challenge some of the core of everything that has to do with saving lives and bringing health to work. There is great concern among humanitarian actors that such a mix of roles will reduce their security. When it is not possible to separate the roles, humanitarian actors will easily become legitimate targets. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that we should have a clear division of roles between military and civil actors in Afghanistan. We're going to have an interaction, but we're not going to have a relationship. The problem, however, is that it does not seem to be quite as easy on the ground. Through the media, we have, among other things: seen images of military, including Norwegian military doctors working in Afghan hospitals to treat civilians. When one also learns that this is explicitly justified by a desire to win the conflict, it is clear that there is a need to clarify some roles in practice. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to explain to Stortinget what Norway is doing to ensure this separation, not least in relation to its own troops, and to clear up what – at least as the media makes it – may seem like the liaison the Foreign Minister has told us to avoid. The division of roles is also important for providing assistance in a way that contributes as much as possible to sustainable development. The aim must be to release and strengthen local resources and capacity so that development can continue at the end of the assistance. If military forces without experience of such work enter and quickly ‘deliver’ development, we are at risk of creating greater aid dependence and undermining such long-term processes. It is also important for this reason to leave humanitarian work to those who have the most extensive experience of it, namely organisations and institutions that have worked in the country in many cases long before it became a military operation. The risk of aid dependence is particularly alarming that only 10-20 pst. of international civil aid goes through Afghan channels, in particular when one knows that only 23 psts are granted by this proportion. without earmark. There is a great danger of undermining the responsibility of the Afghan authorities for their own people and of weakening the ability of the Afghan people to hold them responsible through elections. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is seeing this challenge. However, there is a field of tension between such thinking and the desire to focus on clear areas of action. Higher education, energy, civil society, human rights and women's participation are all good objectives. Perhaps it is necessary to focus more on governance requirements, transparency, transparency and anti-corruption measures, and to less extent on the conditions for which the funds are to be used, in the phase we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e560	It is interesting to follow the debate here today, after the good presentation that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had earlier. I noticed the line change that was between SV's representative and Højbråten a short time ago. There is a broad consensus in the UK about why we should be in Afghanistan, there is a broad consensus about our mandate and what it is based on. So the Højbrätt told SV’s representative that he made SV ‘responsible for the war in Afghanistan’. We entered Afghanistan in 2001, under the Bondevik II government, and as far as I know, there was a consensus on that. But isn't it going a little far to make SV responsible for the war in Afghanistan? That SV is responsible for our contribution in Afghanistan is something quite different, and something that SV can be held responsible for, but not for, the war in Afghanistan. Isn't this going a little bit far?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e570	My point was to make SV aware of what is happening under the responsibility of the government of Norway in Afghanistan. It's a war, there's no reason to deny. Of course, it is not triggered by SV, but as a government party, SV is responsible for what Norway is doing in Afghanistan. Fortunately, we in Stortinget are together to take responsibility for that, but I do think the public debate makes it justified from time to time to remind you that there is also co-responsibility at the government party SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e577	There are probably several people who were somewhat surprised by the Høybråten's statements about SV. If I had been SVs, I would have basically been flattered by the role the party is given in Afghanistan, now also actually responsible for the war itself. I assume that Højbräten believed that SV and the Government are responsible for Norway's presence in Afghanistan. The current government parties are conscious of their responsibility, seafaringly, but I dare remind Højbräten that Norway has been in Afghanistan since 2002, and then put the Højbräten in government. So my question is: does Høybråten regret today the decisions he made when he was in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e584	I understand that the Labour Party needs to send two speakers to the pulpit to get the same answer twice. Of course, that's okay with me. But what is the underlying point is that throughout the period the red-green government has been sitting, we have experienced that the party SV has both been responsible for Norway's contribution, as the representative Myrli correctly puts it, and has pursued an opposition policy – both inside and outside the Stortinget – against this contribution. That is what the opposition must be allowed to point out. Otherwise, the representative Myrli knows very well that the Christian People's Party has assumed its responsibility from the very beginning, and we do so today. We will not claim that everything we have done has been of the highest quality at all times, but we accept our responsibility, both in government and here in the Grand Duchy, for what we do in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e595	The Left also supports the main features of the Council of State's presentation of the challenges we are looking forward to in terms of our presence in Afghanistan. We also agree with what the Council of State stresses, that finding paths to a political solution also requires military presence. We have a great international commitment that we have taken on in this context. It is important that we in the Great Britain have a debate on this. It is important that we have the opportunity to show support, because here we take some of the most difficult choices we have as politicians, namely to send our citizens into war. Therefore, I have to say that I think it is a little strange to experience that SV on the same day as the Council of State is standing here and explaining, challenges its own Council of State. The sub-tone that lies in the entire SV post is that you have to break free from the United States and NATO, which are our strong partners in this area. I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not meet it in his presentation. The left supports reinforced military efforts to protect the population, but we must also contribute as much as we can, as long as we can and as long as we are needed. The left believes that the operational restrictions that we have for Norwegian forces should also have been lifted. We have also seen that there have been civil losses, as it did on February 14. It can't be accepted. We must not always try to do that. One is the humanitarian aspect of it, but it also greatly undermines the role we have and the job to do. The left has long thought that there should be a clarification of and a clearing up of what is the civil, and what is the military assistance. Here it can quickly become a relationship that goes from cooperative to interconnector. We in the left have a long tradition of what we like about it, and what we don't like about it. We like the cooperative model, we don't like the interconnect model. It is important now, when you have a military offensive, that it too be followed up with a civil offensive. That's the very core of the commitment that we have in relation to Afghanistan. The left also shares the view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important that Afghans acquire ownership for their own development. Increasingly, we must get Afghans to take responsibility for their own development in their own country and for their own security. The left also agrees that we need a political solution. Suffering if the entire opposition was turned into hard grain, it's like we've been thinking for a very long time that you have to negotiate, sail with those you don't like. Sick about the opponent here called the Taliban, it's important to grasp the elements you actually think you can agree on, and then sit down at the negotiating table. If you want to meet the challenges with the Taliban, you need a whole regional solution. It's perfectly clear that Pakistan is part of that solution. The second requirement that becomes important now is a parliamentary election that has a much more democratic device than the presidential elections have had, where we see much less of corruption and cheating, and where legitimacy can be given to the elections themselves. Finally, I just have to make a little remark about one thing that is not taken up here. On 10 December 2009, our Prime Minister stood with the US President and promised 110 million. USD in participation. What was discovered after the press conference was that this was largely old money, depending on the appearance of new, fresh money when the press conference was held. We fight for honesty, openness and justice. I have to admit that it takes a little 'goods' to stand in front of the international press and the American president and sell something for which it really wasn't. But that may not be what I mean by having a brave prime minister who takes the noise for the important things. I might have wanted him to be brave in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e621	I will first be allowed to thank the parties' representatives for their good comments and input into this debate. I note that we can see, as in previous years, that there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy about the main features of the Afghanistan strategy – the military and the political. I would like to stress, at a time when we have a painful memory from a recent loss of a young life in Afghanistan, that it is important to have that consensus, with the responsibility and the signal it sends to those in the field, both political representatives, diplomatic representatives, civil and military personnel in Norwegian and international service. I think it expresses great responsibility. I also think there is a liberating lack of security in this Chamber when we discuss Afghanistan, as an expression of a difficult area where Norwegian decisions are to find their place in a broad picture of international decisions, and where our ability to influence is demanding. I feel that, as a government, we have a good mandate from Stortinget after this debate. So I'll take the opportunity to comment on some of the topics that have been addressed. They come in a slightly different order. The first thing I would like to comment on is the remark by the representative Eriksen Soreide about a concern for the sustainable financing of the Afghan army. It's a disturbance I share, because you're building up a significant military component, which it costs a lot to build up and a lot to run. Now the United States is taking the main bill for that. Norway contributes in its own way through the contributions to the two Funds. Otherwise, I cannot go along with the description given by the representative Skei Grande. The point is that there is money for these funds. Norway has promised it over the years and, in this way, committed future budgets, and that is what this is all about. But it's clear that it's going to be a challenge to ensure that these forces have money to pay over time, so that we don't get a strength that doesn't get paid, with the instability and danger in it. We have to keep recording that in the appropriate forums. So the civil and military involvement and the limits of it have been up in more articles. I don't think there's very much disagreement in this room around it. I feel that there is agreement on the main principles, but then, as the representative Højbråten said, it is always demanding situations on the ground, and we must focus on that. Firstly, I believe that this concept of ‘for coordination, but against interrelationship’ is a good guide for how to deal with it. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, said that we should work to exploit civil and military efforts in a way that benefits the Afghans. That's what I'm going to end up with. We have a kind of division in humanitarian work, where the concept of 'humanitarian space' has been used, so we should strive to get the help to those who need it, regardless of which side of a conflict they need. The question that arises is, Where is the limit of the humanitarian space? Where does it start, and where does it end? Then I would say that our civil effort – let me be very clear about it – is political. No doubt about it! When we support the construction of schools, it is not a humanitarian neutral project. It is a politically charged project, because we believe in schools, we believe in girls in schools, and we believe in that component of Afghan social development. I myself have been present at the construction and inauguration of schools in Afghanistan, and the joy of knowing it is that there have been Afghans who have built them. It has been Afghans who have taken responsibility – and then they have ownership. Our PRT has a strong civil component, but the civil leader of that component does not report and is not accountable to the military leader of PRT, but reports to the embassy and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Moreover, we have excellent coordination, I believe, between the most concerned departments. It reminds of the coordination they have in the country to which Eriksen Soreide often refers, namely the Netherlands. That's a slightly different way of aligning it, but the main features are the same. For me, it is important that we build Afghan capacity through Afghan forces, and that we do it in an open and thorough way. In recent years the danger has been that there is a myriad of actors sent in to build schools, drill for water and run selective projects under the heading «Hearts and Minds» – that is, win minds and hearts. But research poses critical questions as to how successful this is. I think here we have to be knowledge-based, because it's very tempting and tempting from a political perspective in a western capital to think that if we pack the military with the civilians, and that they work like this in a coordinated race where one contributes to the other's territory in order to achieve rapid results that win the population over on its side, that makes sense. So in the field, it's a lot more complicated. In a country where local alliances in villages and districts are changing rapidly, we should be very careful to bet on military projects that have a clear civil character. The representative of Højbräten raised the question of Norwegian doctors in Afghan hospitals. Let me first say as a recognition to Norwegian military: they want to contribute to doing good for the people who are around where they live. I have even met a doctor who spent his spare time helping in a very inadequately equipped hospital. I believe that the motive for that doctor is a motive I have reason to recognise. But I see the problem of bringing military from one side of the conflict into a hospital, which is a vulnerable element, where there are patients. Our main line is that the support for hospitals should take place via orderly channels, via Afghan channels, and we are now having a conversation with the World Health Organisation about whether some of the projects we have been able to look at, among other things. in the case of anaesthesia, may be followed up by the World Health Organisation. So it's not like we're doing civil development in Faryab by investing in Norwegian military doctors in civil hospitals. I would also like to make a comment on some of the things that have been a little bit up, but maybe not enough, and that is the regional dimension. We agree in this room, I think, that there is no military solution in Afghanistan. It has to be political, but we need the military to pave the way for the political solution. We also agree that an Afghan solution is needed. But I think what we are now seeing is that the solution in Afghanistan is not just in Afghanistan, it is also in the region. There will be no solution in Afghanistan if the regional actors do not in some way play and take responsibility. That's something that was emphasised in London in a way that we haven't heard before, and it has to be even more important. Although we're going to be careful to draw lines from the North to this region -- it's almost absurd to do so -- it's at least for a politician who comes from our part of the world, striking to see that we're coming to a region where there's almost total absence of regional cooperation arrangements. Then I think you're open to looking at cooperation arrangements that follow different historical patterns, different cultural patterns from ours – and recognition of it – but here you're more struck by the absence of such cooperation between governments. There is a lot of other cross-border cooperation, not everything is just as constructive — by drug networks, by rebel movements that can cross borders back and forth. Therefore, I believe that we need to encourage and press more from the Norwegian side – even if we are not a major player here – and from the international community for the countries of the regions to take responsibility. One country that does that is Turkey, which, in my opinion, plays an increasingly important role in this region, because of historical ties, language communities, cultural communities and the ability to bring parties together. Turkey had a meeting with its neighbours before the London Conference. They had their own meeting with Afghan and Pakistani leaders on Turkish soil. This is a theme that I think will have to be much more central. Of course, the Pakistan–Afghanistan link is crucial, but it also applies to India, China, Iran and the countries north of Afghanistan. I will end by saying in the middle of the debate that it has been good and meaningful, and it is not that the lack of deep disagreement in this Chamber is an expression that this matter is not serious. I feel that we take it with the seriousness it has, and that we take it with the humility that lies in that we and the international community too can change and update our strategies. But we have to do it in a way that also ensures the long-termity of what we're doing. The fact that it happens is the difference between this statement and that statement two years ago. I think that's quite natural in a situation where conditions change. Norway must continue to be an informed and committed player on the civilian and military tracks in order for Afghanistan to become a peaceful place for Afghans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e652	After all, corruption has been a review of Afghanistan. Unfortunately, we have experienced over the years that both governors and central government members have behaved in a way that in other cultures would be perceived as pure mafia leaders. Norway is, almost in every way, a fairly large donor and donor, and we are partners with the government and authorities of Afghanistan. Are we clear enough? Are we demanding enough as partners? Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think we want to experience another Afghanistan in terms of corruption on the authority side in the future, than what we have experienced so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e657	I have hope that we will experience another Afghanistan. The London Conference and President Karzai's inaugural address made that clear. But we can never be safe, and we should be worried. Obviously, the very military offensive that is now taking place, and the focus that is around it, risks taking off some of the pressure that has been, among other things. from the American side and from us, that something is done about corruption. However, institutions and appointed ombudsmen are now in place to follow this. I think we've been very clear that it's unacceptable with the corruption practices you've seen. We're going to be a demanding giver, and we've seen good signs. At the same time, this is a dilemma. We don't get Afghan regimes sorted out without investing in Afghan priorities, but we'll be careful where we pay our money. We are betting on payment channels, multi-currency funds, which allow more people to check that the money is being used correctly. Then we'll never know that there'll always be risks associated with the bet we have, even on the money side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e664	We fully agree that civil-military coordination must be improved, that aid must take the Afghans even more seriously, and that the security situation is still challenging. Nevertheless, the government says that you want to move out the civil part of our PRT in Meymaneh as soon as the security situation makes it possible. What does the Foreign Minister think it would have to say for the coordination between the civil and the military part?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e671	Distances in our time have very little meaning for you to coordinate and know what you're doing. When I was in Meymaneh last, the civilians told me that in order for us to do our job, it's clear there's no advantage in being in a military camp. We're there because security requires it. Ideally, they would like to have offices inside Meymaneh City, where they could go out and into and be part of partnerships with Afghan actors. We can't allow them to be there because security is too bad. But, as I said, we have strict coordination of this through the Norwegian authorities. This applies from the Embassy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, and to procedures and arrangements that ensure that that coordination is as good as it can be. After all, we want the people to be pretty close to where their work is to be carried out. If the situation comes that they can work outside a military camp, it's better than that they have to sleep inside a military camp. But the coordination I think is going to be about as good, whether it's one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e676	A year ago, I had been glad to visit our forces in Afghanistan and have had good discussions with the solar data. What may have hit me the most was that they're there on behalf of the Norwegian people and from us as politicians. It gave me a very responsibility, so I think we have a great responsibility for the debate that is being held in Norway. Of course, it's allowed to have a debate, but it's important that he gets right. I have to say that I know I'm reacting a little bit to the way that one government party takes up the debate, which is purely double communication. There's been a talk about an article in the VG, and I found that article. Now I don't expect SV to take a line on the state council. Unfortunately, it takes a little too long to read out all the challenges to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I thought I would give him this: ‘My Minister for Foreign Affairs, that it may be relevant to the gradual slowdown of our military engagement in Afghanistan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e681	I hope that we will succeed in building up Afghan forces, that we will succeed in training them so that they can take responsibility, and that we can gradually step down our presence. I hope so. I can't give a timeline for that – that would be unwise – but it's a goal that both I, American and all the other allied authorities have. That's what I think is the least controversial statement in that article, to say it that way. In addition to that, I would say that when I read today's poll and the mixed picture Northmen have on this, it would be strange if there were not in this room and in political Norway the kind of voices that we read about in the VG that day. The decisive thing is what the Government thinks, and what the Government stands for, and the government parties stand for this together. But at a time when we're discussing freedom of speech, I'm really very comfortable with articles coming up where people can write and mean what they wanted, and I don't think anyone is in any doubt about where Norway is standing on the basis of that article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e688	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that he was in favour of coordination, but not of a kind of coordination where we go in parallel with civil and military instruments. For that reason, I think it is interesting to discuss the offensive and the operation that is now taking place in Marjah. The whole point is that the military are committed to ensuring both the clear and the team, and it is followed by an immediate civil effort, which will involve development actors, both Afghan and Western, who will ensure that the strategy for which they have decided at the overall level is implemented. So civil and military efforts are an implemented part of the overall effort. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e693	I think I may have expressed myself a little too rough when I say that I am against that they can work in parallel. I am in favour of that coordination, and in many respects it is very good to have respect for the various mandates. I believe that, in many contexts, we have practiced cooperation between civil and military actors where we have that respect. What's happening now in this campaign, it's almost too early to say anything about it. I'm worried if it's such that in the heat of a battle around a geographical area, civil aid is poured into the days after to win hearts and minds. I believe that research has asked questions about how successful it is over time — in a country where those living there are very used to ‘shopping help’, to use a term, from the places where it had to come. I think it comes back to the fact that civil construction is being made best anchored in Afghan institutions and Afghan priorities, so that they become long-lasting, and that the Afghans can take over them on the day it is no longer international aid there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e701	Afghanistan is on the staging list for human rights violations. This concerns me, and I'm sure it concerns the Foreign Minister equally. I could imagine asking if he's been thinking about how we as a country can help Afghanistan become a better country to live in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e706	It is our entire mandate, our task, to try to contribute to it. But since the representative focused on human rights, we are committed both to supporting the development of proper legislation in Afghanistan and to supporting civil society. In my presentation, I underlined the importance of providing support to women, not just to support women as a group, but to support women as a resource in the development of Afghan society, in governance and care, in various positions that are important in society. It is supporting civil society, non-governmental organisations, it is supporting Sima Simar, who is a human rights officer in Afghanistan, and keeping Afghan authorities consistently responsible for the human rights situation. I also said in my statement that Afghans are going to make democratic elections, which are democratically legitimate, but which in many areas are going to be contrary to our values. So we need to actively engage with them in the fields of culture, human rights and women's issues. This can build a more robust foundation in Afghanistan, so that they also choose societal solutions that respect universal human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e713	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e716	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. There was a good review of the situation as we see it per. today. That it is challenging and difficult for both the ISAF forces, the Afghan forces and the civilian population to live under constant pressure, says itself. The fact that the Taliban is getting stronger is, of course, also a source of concern, but if you now really raise the wishes of the London Conference on a peace and reconciliation process by Afghan side, we are hoped that there will be a change and an improvement for the Afghan people. That this will take time and not be done in a month or two, of course, but as long as there is willingness to negotiate and dialogue, there is hope. In his statement, the Foreign Minister said that there was progress, that half of the children in Afghanistan are now going to school, and that you can see girls on the school road. It's a development I would like to warmly welcome. Unfortunately, we know that the Taliban is doing its job to prevent girls from getting educated. We hope that the children — and perhaps especially the girls — will receive good protection on the school road and at school. Another thing the Foreign Minister briefed on in his presentation was that there were now functioning health wards, and that a quarter of birthing women get medical help. This is fantastic considering that very few women, if any, have not received medical help at all for many years at birth. Afghanistan has been at the top of the list of maternal mortality in the world, and every five children die before it reaches the age of five. When the Foreign Minister now explains that there is an offer for mothers and children, this gives me hope that we may once, in less than many years, reach the thousand-year targets set by the United Nations. I think I could trace some optimism with the Foreign Minister in his presentation. But I still have to deal with a topic that I hope the Foreign Minister will continue to work on, including in relation to Afghanistan. Unfortunately, Afghanistan is still at the top of the wrestling list for violations of human rights, in particular in terms of freedom of expression and freedom of belief, which we discussed a week ago here in the United Kingdom. It was found that Christians are persecuted, harassed, and outcast. Especially does this happen through families taking a distance from the one who has converted to another belief. If you own a Bible, you can be arrested. If you mess up, you could get yourself killed. So we have to be present on all the arenas, also on the civil part. There are about one million widows who have no source of income and who are reduced to begging in the streets. Many are illiterate, and it's almost impossible to get work. In addition to that, it's over 2 million, or about. 7 pst. of the population, who use opium daily. Poverty and the increase in recruitment to the Taliban are probably well connected. If we are to build an Afghan community through village construction, we must also build the population. So maybe there could be Norwegian projects that looked at how to get the widows away from the streets and make them the mountain, through, for example. microcredit, to produce goods such as Western demand. Perhaps another project is trying to rehabilitate some of the two million drug users. Because that is perhaps the most important message that human rights give – the right to a decent life. If a population has experienced many, many years of war, illiteracy, poverty and intoxication behind it, it needs help to get up again – a help that Norway should be able to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e737	A very robust presentation and a good debate today illustrate very well both the broad consensus and the kind of challenges we face in the future with the allied countries and, not least, the people of the region who are being discussed today. Since someone has been involved in this, it is not certain that another government would have led any other policy. Rather on the contrary – the only difference would probably be that the opinions that would have come from another opposition would probably have been a lot sharper than what is happening here today. However, in its statement, the Foreign Minister mentioned the ISAF strategy based on the McChrystal report and recommendations of August. It might also have been appropriate to discuss what it implies, including for Norway, to participate in what is now defined as a counter-insurgency campaign: how the strategy recommends not only an increase in both civil and military efforts, but also a closer possible coordination, which was also discussed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In its report, McChrystal explicitly describes the capacity of ISAF to use civil instruments and to create developments — quickly on the ground and at a low level — as one of the strategic benefits of ISAF versus the Taliban. There's one aspect the government hasn't been very willing to touch since August. ‘There is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan,’ says Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre. I might think that when it comes to communication with the many military participants and actors at the really sharp end of the mission, we're going to stand on a different communication. We must be able to say openly that the military, and the military part of the business, are part of the solution, and an important and decisive part of the solution. So let me say that I liked Gahr Støre's posts today where he says that 'we need the military to pave the way for the political solution'. The most important thing is that civil and military efforts should be phased out gradually, to which many have been subjected. Responsibilities and operations shall be transferred to Afghan security forces. This applies to the whole of Afghanistan, including Faryab. The international forces must move into a role where they train, mentor and act as partners for the Afghan forces. They must also operate with them in battle, if necessary. The government has been very clear that that transfer will take place as soon as possible. That's the starting point for all of us, of course also for the Right. Norway shall remain in Afghanistan no longer than necessary. Nevertheless, it is not unproblematic when the Minister of Defence states that Norway should be among the first NATO countries to transfer security responsibilities to the Afghans and that it can be done in Faryab, as she expressed it in the evening post earlier in February. When the representative Svein Roald Hansen asks why the opposition mentions this and asks about it, it is because this wish has been materialised, also in the budget proposal that has been adopted, and it is repeated. That's why I think the Foreign Minister's clarification has been necessary – that we stress that we are present in Afghanistan for as long as necessary. Right doesn't want to communicate, as the government has done several times, that we should be among the first to withdraw from Afghanistan. In that case, we're going to do it together with and in agreement with our allies. But we need to focus on the fact that our personnel who are in the sharpest assignments also get basic training and are optimally equipped, as we have stressed earlier. We are counting on us to be present in the complex tasks for as long as necessary, and we are pleased that the Foreign Minister's statement also focused so much on the concept of 'coordination'. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to continue to do so as long as we see that the UN does not do the job, nor, together with the Allied forces, manage a solution to the financial contributions that ensure that the Taliban and Al Qaida continue to operate as they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e759	Today's debate is important. It reaffirms once again the broad consensus that has also been expressed in the past regarding the Government’s Afghanistan strategy. This is important, not least for our forces out there. The safety situation in Afghanistan has worsened in the last few years. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement, the Taliban and other rebel groups are more militarily strong and have the ability and capacity to carry out actions across large parts of the country, including in the north. This means that Norwegian and Afghan forces are now in conflict with rebel groups up to several times a week. Norwegian and Afghan forces in Faryab are thus facing a significant safety challenge in the future. Norwegian military forces are well ahead with their targeted efforts to strengthen the capacity of Afghan security forces in northern Afghanistan. This is fully in line with the new ISAF strategy. Military efforts focus on enabling Afghans to take responsibility for their own security. This has been mentioned by Norway for a long time, and it shows that the device we have had in recent years has been right and forward-looking. We build Afghan capacity through training and mentoring as well as so-called partnership operations that Norwegian and Afghan military forces operate together in the field. Norwegian military efforts will be further turned towards training and guidance in the future. This implies that Norway will continue to have a solid military presence in Afghanistan. As the number of Afghan security forces increases, the need for support through training, mentoring and partnering will also increase. Norway has initiated closer cooperation between contributing countries with military forces in northern Afghanistan. This is particularly important in the light of the notified US and Afghan strength building in the Faryab province where Norway is leading a stabilisation team. The US must deploy training and engineering forces in the north to support the Afghan strength building. This fits well with our plans to continue and strengthen our focus on training and mentoring while transforming today's infantry strength into a partner unit with the primary task of supporting Afghan departments in fields. All NATO countries have recently received requests from NATO to provide specific additional military capabilities in Afghanistan. Norway has been asked to contribute personnel to a medical clinic as well as additional personnel for the training of engineers, military police and liaison staff. Norway is already a significant contributor to the ISAF operation and has come a long way in turning its efforts towards more focus on training and training. NATO's recent request addresses the kind of effort we're already engaged in. Thus, a new military training team will be in place in Meymaneh from June for training the Afghan police. In addition, Norway is already contributing training staff to an Afghan engineering school in North Afghanistan. Further contributions will need to be assessed in the light of available capacities and in relation to the focus we want on mentoring and partnering with Afghan security forces. Our focus on training, training and support for Afghan security forces is expensive, demanding and risky. We are even greater than before in the middle of the battle with the Afghans. In my view, however, this is the only way to go to ensure that international efforts lead to something that is sustainable and that we will be able to reduce the international military presence in the long term. Military presence will gradually change character in line with the fact that Afghan forces themselves take responsibility for their security. The course is cancelled for such a transfer of responsibility. NATO Minister of Defence meeting in Istanbul from 4 to 5. In February, the main focus was on the transition to a new phase of the ISAF Operation Plan, where responsibility for security is transferred to the Afghans themselves. From the Norwegian side, we want to be drivers to transfer responsibility for security in the province of Faryab as soon as the situation permits. The Norwegian forces are making a formidable effort to build stability and security in Afghanistan and thus contribute to security at home. We have always known that that effort brings risk, and the efforts, as many here today have pointed out, deserve honor and deep respect. The fact that we have lost five Norwegian soldiers since we started operations in Afghanistan underlines the seriousness of this. I would like to sum up by stressing that we have a strong focus on reducing the risk of loss and damage to Norwegian soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e778	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e781	I want to challenge the Minister of Defence, not necessarily in the Norwegian contribution, but a little bit on the European contribution and the total contribution to meeting McChrystal's and NATO's new strategy. Is it where you want to be in terms of strengths? Can the strategy be implemented? Are the forces now known given the security to the Afghans that this strategy is intended to provide? Or are we at risk, as some of us are afraid, that we will once again have a security problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e786	I am committed to convey that the Norwegian forces are making a formidable effort, and that they are part of a larger Norwegian contribution both military and civil. As the Foreign Minister has also stressed, a political solution is needed in Afghanistan, but a military contribution is required in the course of the process. Our wish is to make the Norwegian military contribution as effective as possible, where it is also part of a good and broad relationship both with our partners in the north and, of course, with the total ISAF effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e793	I fully share the Secretary of Defense's description of the Norwegian forces and their formidable efforts. The job they do increases our security, and it increases Afghanistan's security. Let me just say that it is very important that we put the Afghans in the situation that we can transfer control and authority from the foreign forces to the Afghan forces. But we also have to plan for it to be a long-term process. I would like to challenge the Minister of Defence on the role of the Norwegian Manoeuvring Unit in Meymaneh, in North Afghanistan, whether it is wanted to be continued or reinforced, or whether there is still uncertainty about what was seen in the 2010 budget on possible repatriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e799	I hope that the description of our contribution in Afghanistan that Gitmark's representative is now asking questions is satisfactorily described in the proposition that the Government has just made. And let there be no doubt that we are also prepared to assist our Afghan partners in the future in the way we already do. Although there is a formal transfer of responsibility, which is really a good news, it means that we are prepared to assist effectively in the north as long as it is necessary. I really think the English terms used for the transfer of responsibility are important to bring with me: ‘transfer’ is something other than ‘transition’. And during this transitional period, we are prepared to stand as long as it takes, along with our allies. As they say, we went in and we're also prepared to go out with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e804	Afghanistan is on the move in the future, but it is getting smaller, and the security situation in the country has, as both the two present state councils have confirmed, become worse in recent years. A professional-military estimate — I am thinking of General Petraeus — is that in order to follow up security in a country, a military presence of 2 to 2.5 pst is needed. of the population of the country concerned. For Afghanistan it will be 700,000 soldiers in that case, while the current presence, with the US enlargement, is 130 000, i.e. only one fifth of what is needed. Perhaps that's precisely why things are going small in Afghanistan. I have to ask: will the Minister for Defence make sure that Norway takes its responsibility seriously and increases the military contribution in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e811	As I have already described, Norway is making significant efforts in Afghanistan, both military and civil. Discussing what's going on small, could have been tempting, but I know that someone came with a heart attack that it actually took 28 years to win Carthage. So now that we're in the middle of a discussion about what's the right effort in Afghanistan further forward, we're prepared to lubricate ourselves with patience, put real effort into doing a good job in the area for which both myself and other colleagues have a responsibility, along with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e818	I share the Minister of Defence's good intentions and the importance of mentoring and training and the ability to enable the Afghans themselves to take care of their own security. I think that's an important way. But otherwise in the debate, we have talked a lot about relations between military and civil assistance and the importance of aid organisations being able to take care of their independence and legitimacy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had a brilliant rise in the border that it would be a cooperative and a division. My question to the Minister of Defence is: Will it follow up, so that what the Foreign Minister has outlined instead, will also be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e825	I can of course confirm that I will. In that context, there might be reason to remind you that there is also a former Minister of Assistance here, so I know very well what we are talking about. I also know what a practical challenge this poses. But that we have to be very clear in our principle approach in this area, I think it is absolutely necessary, also in view of the long-term nature we need to contribute to the development of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e830	We have picked up some signals that during the last Minister of Defence meeting in NATO, the Germans laid on the table a new strategic plan for North Afghanistan. The question to the Minister of Defence is whether it results in correctness, and in that case whether the Minister of Defence can inform the Storting about what this initiative is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e835	We work with, among other things. The Germans in RC Nord, who have the command line there, and we have for some time, as I also explained in my post, worked on an initiative that was taken at the post level on ways to work more closely with those who are also in the north. This will be followed up at political level, so that in a short time a ministerial meeting will also take place among the countries participating in the North. What we're looking at is whether we can work closer together to support the Afghans in building capacity on their side. Which form it gets, and whether it changes geographically how we work together, it's too early to say more about, but of course I'll come back to the Storting and orientate about this as soon as I have more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e842	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e845	Action on security, stability and growth in Afghanistan is a long-term task. The country faces major challenges in terms of improving governance, promoting human rights and achieving social and economic development. We have a very good debate here today, and the debate shows that we have a very broad common political platform for Norwegian Afghanistan policy. I think that is a strength for Norway. If we are to ensure a safe and good future for the people of Afghanistan, we must prevent the ground of terror, it is absolutely essential to succeed in social and political nation-building. Norway’s presence intends to contribute to social and economic development in the country and to stability in the region. Many Afghans feel that this development is too slow. But we see some positive features, which the Foreign Minister stressed in his presentation. Over half of Afghan children go to school. It's 7 million children, compared to 2 million a few years ago. 95 pst. of all children under the age of five years have been vaccinated and several women are now receiving medical assistance at birth. Despite this, Afghanistan still has very high maternal mortality rates and is the second worst in the world on the UN indicator of the difference between men and women’s development. Child mortality, which was also attended by the representative Woldseth, is still too high. About 70 pst. the population is under 25 years of age, so the available workforce is very low, and women participate to a small extent in paid employment. Anal illiteracy is by far the highest in the world – 71 pst. on average and 86 pst. for women. The proportion of young people who can read and write in Afghanistan is much lower than in sub-Saharan Africa. There are enormous challenges in the education sector, even though we have achieved some things. More than 1 000 new educational institutions have been established since 2001, and there is a conscious commitment to facilitating more girls to take up education. The number of teachers is increasing, ten universities are established around the country, while hardly one worked under the Taliban regime. With this as a background step, I am proud that Norway has a female profile in its Afghanistan policy. We all know that economic and social development does not come of itself. Norway is betting on women and on gender equality measures, we are betting on education and on good governance. The aim of Norway’s cooperation with Afghanistan and Pakistan through regional appropriations is to contribute to poverty reduction and the development of good governance. If Afghanistan is to be lifted out of poverty and war, it is essential that women's influence and power in society be strengthened. All coherent research shows this. Together with other Nordic countries, Norway is a driving force for women to contribute to the necessary stability and economic development in the country. We know that war affects women and men differently. This perspective is taken by Norway through the Action Plan for UN Resolution 1325 and through its own advisers. In Afghanistan alone, Norway is Twenty million. for women and gender equality purposes. In practice, this goes to different types of projects under the auspices of the UN, UNIFEM, and the Embassy in Kabul. The keywords are education, health measures, safety and rights work and the fight against violence against women. Investing in women in Afghanistan is important. We know that equality does not come overnight, and we can never expect things to be like in Norway. For that you have a story that is very different from the one we have. But we are in the process, and what Norway and other countries are doing can actually make a difference, it can contribute to a positive development in the region, and it can help improve the situation of women in Afghanistan. If we succeed, we shall be very proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e864	One of the world society’s most pressing challenges is the situation in Afghanistan, a country that was ruled by war and disorder for decades. Something had to be done, both to safeguard the interests of its citizens and because the situation in Afghanistan was a threat to the international community. Norway has participated in Afghanistan since January 2002, and we are there to contribute to stability, security and development at the request of the UN Security Council and Afghan authorities. If the world community had not contributed, the option could have been that the country had been thrown into a new and bloody civil war. Norway has about 500 women and men in the ISAF International Force. Norway – and the world community – is not in Afghanistan because we want to put new land under us. We're not going to take over Afghanistan in any way. No, we are there because – together with over 40 other countries – we need to ensure the security of the Afghans so that they can build their own country. Our military presence in Afghanistan is of a temporary nature. When safety is sufficient for Afghans to take over the sea, the international forces withdraw. In the same way as it is not an objective to stay as far as possible in Afghanistan, there should also be no target of withdrawing as soon as possible. We are there – along with our allies – for as long as it takes. Instead of holding a debate in years and months, we should have a debate on how and when we achieve our objectives, and the aim must be to ensure that the situation in Afghanistan is so good that they do without the international forces. The involvement of Norway and other countries in Afghanistan should not be a debate on Norwegian interests. The debate should not become a debate on whether one is for or against NATO, for or against the UN, or for or against military operations. No, the debate should focus on how to establish an Afghanistan that is safe and safe to live in for the Afghans and that no longer poses a safety risk to the world community. The government and the majority of the population remain committed to continued broad and long-term involvement in Afghanistan, involving both civil and military instruments. Norway is one of the largest contributors to civil construction in the country. The presence of Norway in Afghanistan shall contribute to the social and economic development of the country and to the stability of the region. We will do so by helping Afghans to gradually become able to take responsibility for their own security and development. In addition, our presence must help to strengthen the United Nations' coordinating role. Let me stress that there is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan. There must be a political solution. And it must be Afghan anchored. But on the road to such a political solution, military presence will be required – not to settle the conflict, but to provide security for political and economic development. It is not to be overlooked that eight years after the military involvement of the international community in Afghanistan, the security situation is still very demanding. Most seriously it is in the south and east, but also in the north our forces notice an increased threat level. Norway shall actively facilitate the gradual assumption by the Afghan authorities of the management responsibility for the security of the Faryab province. It is therefore essential to strengthen the training of the Afghan army and the Afghan police. Let's not forget that we're guests in Afghanistan. This means that we must have an Afghan perspective on our efforts. It also means that we must take Afghan culture and tradition seriously, and that our western standard is therefore a bad measure. If we are to succeed in Afghanistan, we must listen to Afghan wishes and needs. Only in this way can the world community and Afghans succeed in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e887	We're definitely going to accept Afghan culture, but there are some limits. One of the things that's burned in my memory is the description in a British newspaper of the stoning of the first Afghan woman after the Taliban came to power in the mid-1990s. The Taliban regime used for other stadiums in Kabul as the execution arena, and the association with Pinochet's Chile in 1973 was very unpleasant. We have now had the London Conference to establish a political process in Afghanistan. There President Karzai called for the launch of a peace and reconciliation process, including the following: plans for a peace council to bring together the leaders of all tribes and ethnic groups. And that's good. That's very good. But one principle must be based on our side to accept it: we cannot accept the brutal repression of women under the Taliban regime. A successful reconciliation process requires political agreement on the Afghan side on respect for women's position and human rights. It's only been a few days since this room had a debate on human rights. Human rights must be universal. They can never be culturally related, not to talk about religious relations — whether they are women in Afghanistan or frightened young girls born and raised in Norway who are forced into marriage. I am absolutely sure that when the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: ‘But we must recognise that the Afghans will also be able to make choices and emphasize values that are foreign to us and that sometimes contradict us directly in the future’. Then he didn't mean that we should accept women's oppressive laws or stoning of women. In fact, it is crucial for Afghanistan to be lifted out of poverty, for the situation of women to be strengthened. It has now been two years since the Grand Duchy dealt with the Minister of Development’s report on women and development, and it commits. Afghanistan was a disintegrating country in the 1990s. As far as I remember, the Taliban regime was only recognized by two countries, and one of them was not unexpected Pakistan. On 10 September 2001, the charismatic leader of the North Alliance was killed by the Taliban and Al Qaida disguised as TV reporters. The next day, it narrowed in New York and Washington, as we know. NATO used Article 5 to support the United States for the first time. The North Alliance and the U.S.-led Operation Enduring Freedom threw the Taliban out of Kabul. Then we got the Bonn conference late in 2001, and among the major mistakes made by the international community, the commitment to assistance and construction from the Bonn conference was not followed up properly. So established the UN ISAF, the International Security Assistance Force, the stabilisation force that was taken over by NATO in August 2003. The work on building a stable Afghanistan is demanding. Action for security, for stability, for human rights and for development in Afghanistan is a long-term task. The humanitarian challenges are great, the state institutions are still weak, we see corruption — and it could be added to a long list. Nevertheless, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, let us look at the points of light that exist. Very many Afghans, not least women, just challenged the Taliban, and went and voted in the presidential elections. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned all the gangster girls on their way to school, and thus also despite the Taliban. Seven million children now go to school, and 95 pst. all children under the age of five are vaccinated. Afghanistan is being built slowly, but surely. On the road to development, military presence is still necessary to ensure stability. However, let me add: there is no military solution alone; it does not do so in any society that is in conflict. So we have to have both. And the Norwegian effort, which almost equates economic aid and military presence, is what I expect us to continue with, and which also helps the Afghans get a better daily life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e908	Through his books "The Dragon Runner" and "The Thousand Brilliant Suns" the American-Afghan writer Khaled Hosseini has given us first-hand insight and knowledge of his former homeland's recent history, people and culture. It's the story of violence and oppression, fear and fear in a feudal society entirely alien from ours. But it is also the story of a war country with itself and of the suffering of the population under changing regimes from the monarchy to the Taliban sharia laws. But above all, Khaled Hosseini's books are shocking accounts of a society in which the oppression of women is put into a system in which fundamental human rights are violated, and human dignity only makes sense to a few. Hosseini's descriptions are not free poetry. He's picked up his stories from his own reality. For me, the books are a justification for the international community's involvement in Afghanistan and our own military presence together with our allies in a remote country in another part of the world. Nevertheless, many of us are concerned with the moral and political dilemma of the war, that is, the fact that, on the mission of the United Nations, we are involved in acts of war in a country without democratic institutions on our scale, and in support of a president, a government and a regime characterized by corruption and mismanagement and with unclear support in the population, because the alternative is so much worse. In his noble speech in Oslo, President Barack Obama dwelled on the term ‘just war’. Obama noted that wars between nations are increasingly being replaced by civil wars in our time, and that the emergence of ethnic and sectarian conflicts in many places captures the civilian population in an endless chaos where civil society is torn apart, the economic systems are breaking down, and new generations are being subjected to indecent wounds. This is Afghanistan! And then Obama, with her background from the non-violence struggle and American Civil Rights order, says, ‘As head of state, I must meet the world as it is. I can't stand idle when my own country is threatened. Don't make the mistake of believing that evil has left the world. A nonviolence movement could not stop Hitler's armies. Negotiations are hardly fit to convince Al Qaida's leaders that they have to put down their weapons. To claim that the use of violence is sometimes necessary is not an expression of cynicism; it is the recognition of human imperfection and the limitations of reason in history." I'm in a hurry to stress that this is hardly a verbal quote – it's my own translation of a passus in Obama's speech, where he defends the need for military operations under UN mandate. At the same time, however, he points to our ambivalent relationship with a military presence in a country like Afghanistan, in the Balkans or elsewhere where it is required. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I feel justified in stressing that the multinational forces in Afghanistan, of which we are part, are there to provide the people with sufficient security to build peace and stability in the region. And we're going to prevent Afghanistan from developing again into a base for international terrorism. At the same time, we are going to contribute to economic and social development in a country with completely different power structures than we are used to. There are hardly any local or central government here, according to western concepts. And the attempts to establish and build a central power capable of governing all parts of the country have so far been only a very conditional success. That is why we should not force our solutions, our social structure, on Afghan society. Then I want to add, in defense of our own society and our own youth: it is essential that opium production in Afghanistan, which is currently financing the Taliban and local feudal lords' war operations, is replaced by food production, so that Afghanistan is able to feed its own population. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister attaches so much importance to the fact that the Afghans themselves must be the main player in their own community building and that they must gradually be given responsibility for their own security. But it will take time. Afghanistan will need international community assistance and support for decades to come. I also think that they will need an international military presence for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e937	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e940	Let me first of all thank the Foreign Minister for a very good, well-reflected and very open and thorough presentation, which is now being discussed and discussed in the Stortinget. I would like to dwell on some issues that have been raised in today's debate. Firstly, we often discuss Afghanistan as if we were not involved in civil efforts and assistance until we also went to war, or joined the alliance, the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. It's easy to forget. We've been there a long time, for Afghanistan is the world's fifth poorest country, and has had 30 years of war. Norwegian aid heads have been used there long before we went in with soldiers. On the morning of today, I drove my son to school – he was going to have a skiing day. We live in everyday trivialities in Norway. At the same time, every morning we usually think about what we're going through during the day. In the car with my son on my way to school, I was thinking about Afghanistan. We had a conversation about the difference between being a child in Afghanistan and being a child in Norway — getting to school, organizing a ski day, and the developments in Afghanistan, where more and more children get the opportunity to go to school. I belong to those who live in everyday life, and I hope – and in fact – that all the parents of the children who are now going to school have the same thing, namely that they are happy to follow their child to education. In the same way that education has been the key to development and growth in Norway, education and health services will also be key factors for development in Afghanistan, along with energy. Still, in the light of what Eva Kristin Hansen says in his post, the most dangerous thing you can do in Afghanistan is get pregnant. Mother and child mortality is very high, and 15 pst. of all pregnancy and parturition ends in death. When Afghan women on average give birth to 5.6 children, we all see what a great risk this actually represents. Fortunately, it's going in the right direction. A quarter now receive medical assistance during births, and this work continues. Then, of course, I could make some points about coordination. I'm going to let that lie, but I want to take a little kick to the Progress Party in the end, because the representative of Høglund has been busy fighting corruption. Yes, if it had been up to the Support Budget of the Advance Party, it would probably not have been so much to be corrupt with around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e955	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an excellent presentation on this important matter. Let me stress that we are in Afghanistan to contribute to security, stability and development. Norwegian participation in international operations shall be enshrined in the UN Charter and shall have a clear UN mandate. In order to achieve stability in Afghanistan, it is also essential to have a comprehensive strategy with both political, military, humanitarian and developmental instruments. It is our responsibility as a society, defence and the national authorities when we send our men and women out on demanding missions in conflict areas. The nation shall be proud of our soldiers who are in Afghanistan. It's a risky mission to create peace and stability out there, and to contribute to security and security for us here at home. It has cost five soldiers their lives to now in Afghanistan. I would like to stress that the soldiers will receive proper training before they travel, that the soldiers will receive solid follow-up while they are on duty. And not least: the soldiers will receive a worthy offer and follow-up when they come home after these demanding missions. Have we achieved anything in Afghanistan so far? The situation is demanding. Although it is demanding, there are now developments in Afghanistan that we can, fortunately, enjoy. We must remember that Afghanistan was one of the poorest countries in the world. The country has been plagued by wars and conflicts for decades. State institutions have almost not existed at all. The humanitarian situation was completely precarious when the international community entered. We have achieved results in democratisation. Not everything's in place, of course not. The country has a constitution. We've built schools, we've built roads, wells and hospitals. It's built out. Several children are trained. Health services have improved, etc. It's not quite dark, but we've got a long way on the way before we're in the port. We also see that a quarter of the members of the National Assembly are women, and we see that the Afghan army takes more responsibility. But Afghanization also means that we must take Afghan culture and traditions seriously, and that our western standard is therefore a bad measure in this context. If we are to succeed in Afghanistan, we must listen to Afghan wishes and needs. That doesn't mean we're going to accept corruption and things like that when we're going home, but that's how we create peace and prosperity in that nation. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e974	The President asks the speakers to respect the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e977	The representative Nordtun was just here and joined the ranks of red-green representatives who have some strange reasoning about this with western targets and the situation in Afghanistan. The representative Myrli did the same thing, he just claimed that democracy has no tradition in Afghanistan, and that we must therefore be a little restrained. But democracy also had no tradition in Norway in 1814, but I don't think there are any people today who regret that the owners did what they did. The representative Battle Forces Vedum went even further. He actually said that some corruption and some female oppression are ok, because this is part of Afghan historical culture. It could be okay if the government's present state councils could cancel this and emphatically establish that our strategy is zero tolerance in terms of female repression, zero tolerance in terms of corruption – not in terms of us and the Western world, but in terms of Afghans in general and Afghan women in particular. The representative Gustavsen was inside the assistance budget of the Progress Party. I understood that she believed that the aid budget of the Progress Party, which is thus NOK 19 billion, is far too little to be able to do anything about corruption in the world. I would like to stress that the budget strategy of the Progress Party on aid is precisely to focus on combating corruption and perhaps a little less on budget support for corrupt governments. At least three replicants tried in vain to get answers from the Minister of Defence, and the question was, Will the Government take its responsibility seriously and increase Norwegian military involvement in Afghanistan? The answer was missing. Then we have to ask ourselves: is it such that the Norwegian defence has no capacity, or is it a lack of will on the part of the Government when the Government cannot commit an increase in military activity by the Norwegian side in Afghanistan? Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence are very unclear here, but now we have to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e988	At first, to Peter N. Myhre: He could not possibly have joined the debate, because I got so absolutely with me that Morten Höglund himself said that he acknowledged that there was no increase in power in Afghanistan. But this must be settled internally by the Progress Party. I want to start by saying that I have great respect for the efforts of Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. I have several friends who have either been there or are there. They see themselves as a tool for Norwegian democracy, and Norwegian democracy is what we are the foremost administrators of. That is precisely why, because in the ultimate sense, they can take their own lives and make a fine with their own lives – as they have done and will do – we owe them a critical debate in which we seek to grasp the right choices. A number of wrong choices have been made in Afghanistan. A number of representatives have been involved, including: Marit Nybakk. I think that the right-hand side of Norway should show a little more humility when it comes to some of the wrong choices that have been made. Early in the process, many argued that it was possible to win a military victory by crushing the Taliban. That is why offensive warfare against the Taliban was waged. From Norway we sent F-16 aircraft. There were many who protested when we from the Red-Green government chose to withdraw from Operation Enduring Freedom because we thought it was the wrong strategy. Today, all parties and most around the world say that a military victory in Afghanistan is not possible. The second is that there has been too little effort on civil reconstruction. The bet is both too small and too poorly coordinated. Too much of the international debate has been about recruiting more soldiers instead of providing effective and good civil reconstruction. We have now taken the right initiative. Things go in the right direction in that area. The third is the relationship with the Taliban. It's not more than two years since Erna Solberg called SV both arrogant and naive when we thought it was right to enter into conversations with the more moderate parts of the Taliban. Today, hardly anyone in the world believes that it is possible to achieve a political solution in Afghanistan without just talking to the Taliban. Several of those who have followed the whole process in Afghanistan believe that it was a loss that they did not pull in the pashtunes more strongly from the very beginning. I agree with the ten points made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and believe that this is a good description of the needs of Afghanistan. In particular, I would like to stress the need to strengthen Parliament's role in Afghanistan as a well-corrective instrument to ensure a better development in the fight against corruption and the strengthening of democracy in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1005	Now I'm not sure if Peter N. Myhre really misunderstood, as he expressed it. But when we talk about finding solutions in Afghanistan's history and culture, it doesn't mean that we should accept women's oppression, or that we should accept corruption. There are enough examples of Western involvement in or attempts to wage the war of others, for example. The Vietnam War, where, precisely because of the lack of understanding of the society you entered, many mistakes were made. We can also talk about the Iraq war. The Americans thought they would be met by jubilant crowds, but we got a completely different situation. That's what this is about. There is a difference between accepting female oppression and demanding that they take a quantum leap into Norwegian and Nordic standards. Even the Progress Party has not enabled us to use quotas to strengthen the position of women. So there are many steps on the way from accepting oppression to having a certain understanding and respect for the fact that a society that was a feudal society not long ago must take this development step by step. When it comes to corruption, it's going to be zero tolerance, but we know that it's hard to put into practice. Then, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, we must set up help in a way that minimises the possibilities of corruption and maximises the possibilities of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1014	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly, both today and in his presentation, underlined the complexity of the situation in the Afghanistan region and the lack of simple solutions to achieve a rapid outcome. I think we all quite agree with that. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also underlined the lack of coordination of civil efforts in Afghanistan. I think we all agree. When I ask for the floor, it is because the representative of SV, Heikki Holmås, calls for a more humble right-hand side in this debate. It's almost impossible to believe that the NATO opponent party SV allows itself to demand more humility in a situation where you can ask the opposite question: how would the situation have been in the Afghanistan region if it hadn't been for just NATO, along with its allies, to have been there? Has the health, care, school and education situation for girls and boys improved or not improved because NATO, with its allies, has been present? So a representative is standing up here and calling for us to speak hotter for a dialogue with the Taliban, and also presenting a reality picture where he makes it look like the rest of the world is now following the SV line. It is almost impossible to believe that this debate will end like this – from a representative of a party that actually represents today's government, and that calls for cooperation and stability in our own policies. I'm not so sure if it is that US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, first of all, calls Heikki Holmås to ask for advice on what new steps she is going to take. I record that SV is not shyer about using the US Secretary of State as a witness to the truth of his own policy in this debate. When the United States now sends 30,000 new soldiers to Afghanistan, it is hardly from a advice given by the Norwegian SV and the representative Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1025	What I tried to say in my post was that we have to try to understand the society we're going into. And if we're going to measure success in Afghanistan on the basis of Norwegian criteria, we're doomed to failure. If we are to measure success from our view of equality, our view of a society free from corruption and our view of democracy and good governance, we are doomed to failure. We went into Afghanistan with a background to the terrorist attacks on 11 September, to ensure that Afghanistan was not a haven for terrorism. Then we believe that what is necessary to achieve this is to create security in Afghanistan in the long term – and to have long-term security, we need to build a civil society. That's what I was trying to say. Simplifying this, as Myhre does here, by trying to nuance what is successful in Afghanistan versus what is successful in Norway, I think is stupid. We must be humble in relation to the challenges we face. It's important that we also be honest with our soldiers, that the main purpose of our going in was to stop terror. If we are to survive in the long term, we must create a secure and more stable society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1032	The representative Myhre produced it as if I had claimed something like that democracy has no tradition in Afghanistan. Well, I guess that's the right thing to do. But I can't really remember mentioning democracy in Afghanistan at all. What I said in my post was that we have to take Afghan culture and tradition seriously – and that's something quite different. There are also a number of speakers who have underlined this in the debate. Norway's efforts and international efforts will, of course, be directed towards building a democracy in Afghanistan, which should be lacking. And I want to add: the whole international effort is now directed towards it. We're not supposed to accept corruption. We're not going to accept women's oppression. There is no discussion or space to celebrate on human rights. But in any democracy there will be decisions that others do not like. I have the impression that many in the Advance Party have great sense for the United States. The United States is a country with a death penalty. I think it's completely reprehensible – I don't know what Peter N. Myhre means – but I respect the United States as a democracy, sail if I disagree with decisions made in the United States. Similarly, an Afghan functioning democracy will certainly make decisions that we here in a Western capital will have problems in accepting. We must take Afghan culture and tradition seriously, but we must not, of course, accept violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1042	I will be humble enough to say that I have never claimed that SV is always right in everything. But I believe that Ivar Kristiansen should be clear enough to say that in the discussion about Afghanistan we have had very much right in our perspective at the time of the debate. We have been right that it is not possible with a military victory. Everyone agrees on that now. Everyone says it's not possible with a military victory. We need to find a political solution to the conflict in Afghanistan. When they started in Afghanistan, many thought that it was not necessary for the United Nations to have a central role. Now everyone agrees that the UN must have a stronger and more co-ordinating role, and to a lesser extent leave a good part of the work to individual countries. Some people thought it was completely out of the question to discuss with the Taliban. Now it's like all the leaders in the world say that it's important to discuss with the Taliban to get a peaceful solution. Someone wanted the Taliban hunting to be the way to win this war. Now NATO's strategy is increasingly turned against protecting the civilians. All of these things are what we've been working for and that we've thought to be right, and that's been part of the government's policy internationally when we've been out there to bring the whole world community together. That is why I believe that the work that our Government has done with regard to the world community has been a right and important effort to turn the changes and strategy in Afghanistan in the right direction. Finally, I just want to say to Ivar Kristiansen: it would have been unheard of if Hillary Clinton had called me and so bypassed my good friend the Foreign Minister. Then there should have been writing in the newspapers. When she says that we are negotiating – it's not like we're having peace talks with our friends, we do that with the people we disagree with – she could have said: yes, we know that there is a party in Norway called SV, which says the same thing. I don't expect Hillary Clinton to follow up on that, but I expected Ivar Kristiansen to say that in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1055	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1058	The representative Holmås practises a strange form of humility. We all fully agreed that what we did in Afghanistan we did for our own security and for the security of the Afghans. What we were looking for was an Afghanistan free from terrorism, an Afghanistan where the people actually got the opportunity to be brought out of bottomless poverty, and where respect for human rights was gained. A military victory alone will never – and can never – bring it about, but we need to have a security situation in the country that makes us make the other one work. This is how the military has a very important role to play in Afghanistan, even when the alliance has left the country. But it is mainly through SV's policy that we see the dilemmas emerging. It is primarily through what the representative Holmås mentioned, that we see the contradiction internally in the government. While the SV on the one hand is clear about the importance of mentoring — a mentoring system under which an aggregate accumulation supports — it will be very difficult to implement it if we see fewer forces in Afghanistan. We will never have a complete transition from the safety aspects of the NATO alliance to an Afghan security apparatus without adequate training. In this way, mentoring is just one of the cornerstones of that security. We need a strategy where we are involved in protecting the civilian population. I am pleased – like the representative Holmås – that there are significantly fewer air strikes in Afghanistan now than was the case in the past. Unfortunately, the air raids had the unfortunate outcome that too many civilians were killed. In a country where the civilian population suffers, those who themselves went in to improve the country's situation will never get the credit they actually deserve. I fully agree with those who have said that we must accept that Afghan incipient democracy adopts things we disagree with, but the principle of human rights must never be compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1067	I think it was a useful clarification we got in the last round of this debate. When one starts talking about negotiations with the Taliban and about a deep respect for the cultural peculiarities that we have had to do here – cultural characteristics that have been directly hostile to human beings – it was very good that the representatives Battle Violence Vedum and Myrli got the chance to clarify a little, got the chance to sharpen their point of view and confirm that we have human rights as objectives, and that in our efforts in Afghanistan we should be involved in building democracy, and we should be involved in combating female oppression and corruption. That I think was good, and useful, because in that way the Storting stands more united than it could give the impression of earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1072	I did not intend to speak during this debate. It has been said very well and very very useful, and I would like to highlight in particular the statements and briefings of the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence. There is little disagreement in the policy put forward there. When I now take the floor, it is because Heikki Holmås expressed himself in a way that I sincerely hope does not make any particular impression on the other two parties in the formulation of foreign and defence policy. When the Foreign Minister says that there is no military solution in Afghanistan, of course, I very much agree with that. There is no solution at any point with only military forces, but military forces often have to be present to form the basis for peace, and that is exactly what is happening in Afghanistan. Heikki Holmås attacks in a way what was previously Norway's effort on fighter aircraft in Afghanistan, but it wasn't primarily to participate in the war that existed, it was to save Norwegian and other allied lives. We really need to be able to appreciate that. The fact that there was an accident in that context, none of us are happy, but that was actually what happened. When Heikki Holmås attacked Ivar Kristiansen for his view of this, I thought it was a little sad. Negotiations with the Taliban: none of us have said that it is absolutely impossible, but at the same time we have to remember that none of us really know who the Taliban is, because the Taliban is a little bit here and a little bit there and a little bit of yours and a little bit of yours. It will be a very demanding task to negotiate with the Taliban in this. At all – there is no simple solution in Afghanistan, but at least we know that getting out at the present time is completely indisputable to the Western world. It would be to fail the positive forces in Afghanistan for a good society to come. So I repeat: I sincerely hope that the other two government parties listen as much as possible to SV in the design of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1079	It was the representative of Myhre who made me take the floor again, for he was very critical of parts of my post. Myhre mentioned part about democracy, but I must say I am amazed at his interpretation of it. We can't go into Afghanistan like an elephant in a glass house. The most important question here is how to make progress in creating democracy. If we are to succeed in creating democracy here, we also need to look at the Afghans' wishes and needs – we have to anchor it somewhere. And not least, we have to make sure that everything we do, including in the building of democracy, has Afghan ownership. That is important, and that is why – as I said at the outset – we must act in a way that shows understanding of where we are, in order to build a democracy in security and prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1086	To conclude the debate – hopefully – I just want to thank you for what I think has been a good and informative debate. There are many different aspects that have emerged. I would like to say to the representative Heikki Holmås, who calls for a stronger role for the UN, that he must be pleased that a civil representative has now been appointed against ISAF, who will coordinate ISAF and UNAMA better. It has to be a step in the right direction. I would like to make a few comments on what has been a major issue in parts of the debate, namely, possible negotiations with the Taliban. I think it's very important that we have some things clear for us. Firstly, it is a process the Afghans have to lead. So far, they've set very clear conditions for that process. First, you have to respect the Constitution, second, you have to bring in weapons. In exchange, you can get jobs, money and land. There is a clear exchange relationship, and there must be something basic at the bottom. Secondly, the process is important because it will show the maturity of the Afghan authorities and show how to deal with it. But at the same time, there is reason to be concerned that many people believe that Karzai might extend an too long arm to the Taliban in the process currently underway. Thirdly, it is a major challenge that the Taliban is a very heterogeneous group. The Taliban is not one group, and they don't have the same goal either – at least you can divide it into three. On the one hand, it is those who are strongly ideologically convinced. The second group is those who are really looking for the best possible agreement with other rebel groups to gather. And then we have the third group, which may be the ones who are mostly poor villagers who in different ways are paid by the Taliban, and who thus join them. In any case, it is extremely important that the discussion of reconciliation, reintegration and peace that is now taking place does not happen unconditionally. It does not happen unconditionally either on the part of the Afghan authorities or on the part of the international community. That's what it's important to underline, and that's a contrast to the discussion about similar processes that, in particular, one batch in this room was occupied by a few years ago. In the end, I just want to draw up a quote from a Norwegian soldier who is now training with the Telemark battalion at Rena, ready to travel to Afghanistan in March. It's a quote that impressed me very much, and as I see it, it tells me something about why they're there. He says, "That we've lost one of ours is because the enemy turns out more often than before." It is better that they come and fight against us than that they take civilians who cannot defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1103	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1106	I just wanted to say that I agree with what Lars Myraune said about the correct description of the F-16 planes that we sent down, and what kind of connection they had. That was a good clarification. Otherwise, I fully agree with Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide when she describes the coordination that is now increasingly taking place between the UN and others. I myself have been to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and have been involved in discussions where the very question of the coordinating role of the United Nations, the importance of it, comes up as an important topic. I feel that there is a shift among many of those who were previously very critical of it and thought that it was something that NATO did fine by itself, but that now has a much stronger desire to involve the UN. I think that's positive, and that's something that I think we can all agree on. And that's a positive development for Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1113	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1127	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1136	The proposal we are now considering is to reduce a sample to go through different technological solutions for future power transmission through vulnerable natural areas. We have now been through a period of quite many years where there has been an investment drought in the web. Previous neglects combined with new challenges, including: Connected to renewable power generation, we are now entering a period of sharp escalation of investments in the network. Statnet alone has investment plans of the order of SEK 20 to 45 billion in the years up to 2020. In addition, investments in regional networks and in the distribution network, where the need for upgrading is also high. Then everyone agrees that this is an extension that must be done as gently as possible. We need to avoid unnecessary loads, we need to avoid unnecessary interference in nature. It is quite understandable that large power lines through beautiful natural areas create strong reactions. There are few who want a tram station in their garden, and there are few who believe that the mountain cottage is becoming more beautiful by high-spent masters, even if they are safe. The challenges ahead are the reason why, at the end of the previous ageing period, a strategy was put forward on how to take even stronger account of the environment, aesthetics and local communities when building networks. The proposers indicate that there is a lot of technology development on the cable front, and that is quite right. Statnett is, among other things, heavily involved in research and development in this area, and I would argue that the focus on and the knowledge about this is quite different from a few years ago. It is incredibly important that Statnet has a conscious relationship to test new cable technology and to help it to be used on a larger scale. By putting technology into use, it's going to be better. We have to avoid getting to the point where we don't use the technology because it's too bad and for animals, and it doesn't get cheaper and better because we don't use it. At the same time, I believe it is right to say something about the fact that cable is not always a simple solution, either, despite the fact that technology is constantly evolving. Cable, and especially on land, when you dig it down into the ground, involves great natural interventions. It requires broad lines, and it requires the ability of vehicles to enter. Errors require digging, and the downtime can often be long. Another, very important, aspect, which is at least important for the Workers' Party, is our ambitions for the development of renewable energy. Small-scale production and production are very widespread. It is clear that it requires networks that not only carry large quantities of power from a to b, but that it is possible to connect along many points along the way. There's an opportunity that disappears largely with cable. Then there is much that can be done through the gentle choice of trajectory and various camouflage measures. But we're actually meeting dilemmas here as well. The case-handling time in the NVE is a repetition in this room. The position and opposition have shared the concern that the concessions will be dealt with for so many years that we will not be able to build up networks at the rate that we need. That is why the Committee chose to clarify that the guidelines which came at the end of the previous period should not lead to an increase in the duration of proceedings in the NVE. Networks are societally critical infrastructure. It's going to be done as gently as we can, and here we're on the hook, with a central network operator who has a lot of consciousness and uses resources on it. On the part of the majority and the Labour Party, we do not believe that a new selection will revolutionize development or be necessary to follow up the strategy adopted by the Stortinget. That being said, it is good that Stortinget continues to focus on the network, and it is absolutely necessary that there be signals both to Statnett and NVE that the pressure on technology development needs to be kept up. I recommend with this majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1159	The theme here is important, not for overall strategic reasons, but because it's part of a big whole. There are a lot of visions in the Stortinget — and also in the power industry, to the extent — in developing renewable energy in Norway, in terms of seeing itself as ‘the battery of Europe’, in terms of the electrification of sockets, and everything possible, which can be both realistic and more remote from reality. The point of all these visions is that they're going to be connected, the current you're going to have to expand, get to a market, and you have to do it in a way that makes time horizons, costs, and everything connected. The development of networks – robust networks, large enough networks – is an important part of this. There are many complex aspects to the overall vision of power supply, both on the demand side and on infrastructure. The conflicts around networks are an essential part of these discussions. Because we see that we can have as many visions as we want about developing wind power, we can have as many challenges as we want in terms of security of supply in some areas, as we now experience in Middle Norway, but even then there are conflicts about whether you actually want this network, like for health reasons – there are some who fear radiation hazards – but not least because of the visual disturbance, or the siphoning, which someone would call it, in the natural areas where it is to be built. NVE and Statnett are of course doing a lot of work, are competent and have many qualified opinions about it, no one here is trying to deny it. But the point is, are the small groups going to sit for themselves and define what reality looks like, and what kind of opportunities are there and not there, while also having to bear the costs and responsibility when things are going to be put into practice? It's quick to imagine that then one gets conflicts of interest, role conflicts, which means that one doesn't get the objective approach to this that someone else would have, and where Statnet and NVE likes to think as much politics as they think they do. I think that's a reason why you should have an independent expert committee – precisely because you get rid of the conflict of interest where those who are going to consider different alternatives also see that they have costs and perhaps not dare to challenge the political system, while an expert committee, which was completely independent, which was generally fancied much wider, and which was also usually internationally composed, could challenge this and create some visions. It would probably challenge us politically when it comes to progress plans, the cost side and things like that. But it is a fair political debate. Just rejecting this proposal – originally from the Right, but with the support of others in the opposition – seems a little strange to me, given the knowledge we could gain. In the worst case, you get an expert selection that says the same thing as Statnett. At best, you get an expert selection that shows that the world is even more diverse than you thought. In any case, such an expert committee could cause some of the political debates we have to cease. Because what we're now seeing around the Middle Norway situation, what we're seeing around the Sima-Summer connection and the Bergen situation, is that there's a lot of claims that we can just do like that, it costs almost nothing more, the technology is there, it's just that the NVE hasn't been willing to evaluate it! Yes, such an expert selection could confirm whether that is actually the case, or whether it is easy-to-find statements from opponents who are only looking to train because they do not have overall responsibility, but are only concerned with a soil spot in their municipality. I think it would have been more tidy and more constructive if the Government had said: OK, with regard to the many conflicts we will face in the future – because we know that it has to be built significantly with networks if one is to reach the political visions one has in terms of renewable energy, not least if one in addition wants sea-based windmills along the coast – let's be led where, let's get this debate in order, let's get an expert selection that all parties think is objective and neutral! Then we would get a professional recommendation that one could not say stapled just by Statnett and NVE and their interests, but get a width of this. That is why the Progress Party will support the proposal. We encourage the red-green parties to turn around in this case and be involved in a broad settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1180	The President is a little uncertain about whether the Solvik-Olsen representative made proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1183	I take up the motion in the vote, from the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1188	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1191	I fully support the assessments that the previous speaker made, which gave rise to the need for an expert selection. The power grid, both in cables and in air voltages, is very important infrastructure for our country, and there has been far too little focus in this area in recent years. If we are to facilitate the production of large quantities of renewable energy and secure supply in all parts of the country, it is crucial to have a network of good capacity and secure supply. It is also an important entity for value creation, both for power producers and for the nation. The electricity grid needs to be developed and upgraded. Statnett's development plans for the next ten years are estimated at several tens of billion dollars. At a lower level, too, there is a great need for upgrading. The new European super-network, which is now being implemented, is estimated to cost as much as 250 billion dollars. It is quite clear that there are huge possibilities here, both for cable manufacturers and for others who want to develop products that can be used for these deployments. There is a wide-ranging debate on network policy at the moment. Issues are raised about sea-hauling as remedial measures both in Hardanger and further north in the West. The same is true of large expansions in other parts of the country. When we see how strong the resistance is to the big lines everywhere, it's a strong signal that we have to think about this area. The impact assessments of Statnet show that the costs of cabling are too high and that security of supply is too poor. This is also a good reason for continuing work on better technology in this area. At the beginning of February we had an interesting debate here on the Stortinget on maritime cables to Europe and along the Norwegian coast. This is far ahead of time, but the more important it is to get started on distribution and planning. New cable technologies can contribute to making such a bet economically defenceable. There's not necessarily a connection between these issues, even if it's about cables in the sea. There are different challenges and, not least, different time aspects. Nevertheless, an already now useful opportunity to try out wiring to a far greater extent than it has our will to do so far. There is no doubt that better cable technology is needed. We see in the media and in messages from Statnett that there are major problems with existing cable connections both in Oslofjord and in the case of the NorNed cable. This creates a great deal of uncertainty for those planning the power supply and large price differences for consumers. Earlier this month we discussed Norway's participation in the planning and development of a European supermarket in the North Sea Basin, preferably with a preliminary analysis up along the Norwegian coast. When it comes to the use of sea cables as remedial measures and to export renewable energy to Europe, we need sea cables that ensure good supply, high capacity and competitive price. Last Monday, the committee had an exciting and instructive trip to Trondheim, where we among other things. visited NTNU. Norwegian technology companies and the Norwegian research environment are world-class, and it's great to see how many ground-breaking inventions have come out of our technology environment. When the Right wants a selection of experts to deal with future power transmission technologies, it is to send a strong signal that we want such a development, and that we want to develop Norwegian technology that can be used worldwide, just as we have been able to export the world's best oil and gas resource use technologies. In the setting, it's well documented why Right thinks it's important to bet offensively on developing better power transfer technologies. It is pointed out that there have been positive developments both in relation to the use of DC and in relation to the use of AC, and that there has been an increase in capacity and the extent to which cabling can go. The good example of this is PEX sea cable system, which was 170 kV until 2006. Now it's at 420 kV. Nexans are also in the process of testing long-term flexible skaters at 400 kV level. Large-scale use of this type of cable is a few years ahead of time, but in order for such solutions to be implemented in a few years' time, we need to plan this in good time. I am pleased that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party support the proposal, and wonder that the government party does not want to put extra speed into the technological development of the power grid. When the majority refers to Statnett and others as drivers for the development and qualification of new technologies, it is not sufficient. Right thinks it's a defensive hold, and that research and development must be given far higher priority than what the government is willing to participate in, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1219	I would like to begin by commending Right for their commitment to the electricity grid in general and to the important – not to say decisive – infrastructure represented by the network when it comes to the power situation in central Norway, where a new network is a decisive measure to strengthen security of supply in the area, and when it concerns the Western renewable effort. In the area from which I – and insofar as the representative Lødemel – come, the concession treatment linked to renewable efforts has stopped, precisely because of a lack of networks. We also see this when it concerns the security of electricity supply to households and industry in areas where power is not sufficient, and from the waiting hold to, for example. industry in the case of initial investment, bets, which require stable supply of electricity. The strong renewable effort that this government has put in place and the work to be done in the future in this area depends on a parallel focus on infrastructure, networks and markets. All three areas need to be invested in parallel. The focus on offshore electricity, which has also been discussed in the past, is another important network issue – important in terms of offshore electricity production, and perhaps also the electrification of the petroleum sector. It is important to stress that all network deployment will be a conflict. That's why it's important that it happens with kindness and that one takes care of people and nature. In line with that, the Government has put forward a network strategy, which it has been pointed out earlier in the debate, and it will then follow up. Cables won't always mean less natural interference. As the case-leader was involved, we know, among other things. that cable over land could be a significantly greater natural intervention than an air voltage is, so it is not automatic for conflicts to decrease with cables. Norway is today among the leading technologies in this field. Statnett, NVE, other network companies and the R & D environment have competence and got us in that position. It's not automatic in -- the way the Center Party sees it -- that an expert selection has to do to keep that position. Rather, we should strengthen and motivate the environments that are already doing a good job in this area of developing new technologies and strengthening network deployment in general. Finally, is it the case that the Right and the Representative, through the election campaign in Sogn and Fjordane, turned the election campaign itself on the resistance to the new 420 kV line between Ørskog and Fardal? I record that he, among others In the media, it indicates that the issue we are dealing with here today is a follow-up to this resistance, and that the result as a group of experts, if any, will lead to a different solution when it comes to this line. It is likely that this line will have to be much later than the current date and time. I thought it would have been good to get a clarification on that – get a clear answer on that. Does Lødemel and Right mean that the Ørskog-Fardal line can be postponed pending new technology, or is it important to put this line as soon as possible – as the Right stated in the previous week of this room? It may not be such that one comes with different stops and different positions every week in this room in relation to such an important infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1236	Network policies are important. Network policy is important to ensure security of supply of electricity across our country. Network policies are important to facilitate the development of renewable energy across our country. It is therefore important to ensure the most prudent deployment of the electricity grid and to take into account other environmental and social interests. I want to use this opportunity to recognise the competence of the NVE, the State Network and other network operators in this area, and would like to stress that the vote of the Christian People's Party in this matter is not to be regarded as a distrust of these actors, but rather as a desire to build on the competence that already exists and further develop it in a wide range of professional selections. It is also a signal from the Christian People's Party that we want a stronger emphasis on gentle transmission in vulnerable natural areas in the future, and there will be a need for large-scale grid development plans such as: Statnett has launched its web development plan. The Christian People's Party believes that one should use the planned deployment of the central network to develop and test new technologies that can provide a more prudent transmission through vulnerable natural areas, at the same time as security of supply is ensured. There is a lot of exciting technology developments in cables, both in terms of capacity and price, and it is important to send clear signals to these environments that improved cable technology will be urgently needed. I think the government is too passive in this area. I am pleased that the Minister of Oil and Energy presented a strategy for increasing the emphasis on the environment, aesthetics and local communities in power lines. We've joined this one. However, I believe that this is not enough to ensure a forward-looking power grid in Norway and between Norway and our neighbouring countries. We have to bet more on this. That's why, in the view of Christian People's Party, it's a good idea for the Right to join today, to create a professional selection composed of representatives of cable manufacturers, research environment and Statnett SF to go through new technological solutions that can be used in the future power grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1249	Network development is essential for security of supply and to facilitate increased renewable energy production. We are now facing a period of need for substantial investment in the central network. At the same time, it is very important that the development takes place as gently as possible. That is why, last April, I presented a strategy on how to take even stronger account of the environment, aesthetics and local communities when strengthening the power grid is planned. The strategy was adopted at Stortinget as part of Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009. The strategy also assessed the follow-up to the development of new transmission technologies. My assessment is that this has been well taken care of today through cooperation between the NVE, Statnett and the other network companies, as well as the supplier industry, the research environment and other operators. Much is happening in the development of power line technology. The minority comes in the setting with an example of this – that the voltage level where PEX cables can be used has increased significantly in recent years. The Worm Lange, where the world's first 420 kV plastic insulated cable was installed, is an example that Statnett and Norwegian environments claim to be involved in the development of cable technology. At the same time, there are other challenges to this technology that need to be addressed in terms of the stresses to which such a type of cable is subjected, at the depths and lengths that may be relevant to Norwegian conditions. Here, too, I am sure that our technical environment will be at the forefront. The minority claims that there is no doubt that the NVE has competence in this area, but that it would also be useful to draw on external knowledge from, among others. private enterprises. I am confident that private companies should play an important role in the development of power line technology – and they do today. The NVE is a professional adviser to the Department in this field, but the role of the Directorate is not a matter of developing new technology. The NVE is doing an important job of keeping up to date and contributing to the development of new solutions by setting requirements for the industry in terms of concessional conditions, as well as through R & D projects where the industry is also involved to a large extent. R & D projects initiated by NVE have already led to more use of camouflage measures. An example of this is the use of less visible insulators. It can also be mentioned that Statnett and BKK have started work on developing landscape-adapted masters. NVE is also a participant in projects that look at different biological and ecological aspects of electricity generation, in order to find environmentally friendly solutions. In the case of R & D activities, I will also refer to the electricity supply strategy in Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, which refers to projects under the RENERGIS and CEDRE. In the power line strategy, I also pointed out that Statnett and other network companies are expected to be drivers for the development and qualification of new technologies. Statnet has a particular responsibility in this context as our system administrator and builds and owns transmission systems and power links abroad. It participates in a number of cable development projects in cooperation with both R & D environments and cable suppliers. It is also active in international forums. I notice that Statnett has demonstrated its competence in technology in competition with others by being selected as a consultant for external cable projects abroad. Developments in power transmission technologies provide new opportunities for more gentle transmission of power lines. At the same time, it is important, as the rapporteurs point out, that this work is not at the expense of the necessary development of the network, inter alia. for security of supply reasons. Key central network reinforcements must be based on sufficiently qualified technologies. Security of supply must always be a priority when choosing technical solutions. Developments in this area must be made in stages and with a long-term perspective. As I see it, the intention of the proposal is well taken care of by the work carried out by the NVE, Statnett, other Norwegian network companies, the supplier industry and R & D environments. I therefore do not see the need to create a new sample in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1270	Most of the assessments to the Council of State I put myself behind. But the conclusion I disagree with is that in the political debate and in the social debate about what options exist for air voltage – how much wiring costs, what different technologies exist – we know that those who are opponents, and especially those locally affected, will all the way question credibility especially to Statnet, which is the player who is actually going to expand this, and to NVE, who is the one who gives the concession. No matter what competence exists, no matter how right Statnett and NVE have in their assessments, one in the social debate will question it. Doesn't the Council of State see the benefit of an actual independent selection that could go through these matters to settle the criticism that often comes to Statnett, where one looks at Statnett as a partial part of the thing, instead of an independent actor?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1277	I am not quite sure whether the representative Solvik-Olsen also sees this as the big thing in relation to network policy. I think spending a lot of time discussing for or against a sample is well its case. The reality is that the NVE should have an independent role to consider different inputs. It is not that Statnett and NVE are two sides of the same case. It is not that Statnett and NVE agree on every occasion. The role of the more independent, which the representative is now taking up, is ensured by a directorate which is not supposed to attach anything to technical solutions or the use or non-implementation of new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1282	Does the representative Solvik-Olsen want a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1285	Yes, please! With all due respect, we don't very disagree about this. What I catch in the social debate, though, is that many people out there are asking those questions. Although we, who are associated with both Statnett and NVE relatively often in professional contexts, can have confidence and believe that they are competent, sober and reasonably neutral in the performance of their work, the social debate created by the fact that some groups out there do not experience it that way will result in so much discussion and pressure on the progress of some projects, that one can actually get a postponement there – and therefore a postponement that is actually on a completely unnecessary basis because it is not about someone taking professional mistakes, but about the fact that the perception of a part of the population is simply such that one does not trust them. That's exactly why you're going to have come out better by saying that fine, we're setting up an independent group. This must not delay existing projects, but it can be cleared up in some future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1292	Nor do I very much disagree with the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, that part of the debate can quickly become as the representative points out, that there is a desire for different opinions on matters to be dealt with. It is fully possible to define it as faith and doubt as to whether another sample would have represented a difference. I don't think so. I would also like you to be a little careful with too much bureaucracy, too many investigations. One should not make things more complicated than they are. In this area, we see that processes take a lot of time, even today. So when I don't see that this has any added value, as I assess it, I think we should be careful about making processes more extensive than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1297	Ørskog-Fardal has been included in the debate here. What is saying about Ørskog-Fardal is that it is important to have capacity on that line. It's important for Mid Norway, and it's also important for the power supply, so it's not unsavory. It has been working for many years to get full distribution of the sea cable on that section. One of the reasons we are struggling with a clarification in Middle Norway also about Ørskog-Fardal is that one feels that a sea cable option has not been properly distributed. I am very pleased that the minister has now said that he will sort out a sea cable option for Hjørundfjorden to Ørskog. I think that would be positive. It will also be positive so that we can calm down on that matter, also to get on with building out what is to be built out. So I have questions to the Council of State about Ørskog-Fardal. How does he evaluate the additional arrangements to be made for sea cables on the line between Hjørundfjorden and Ørskog?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1308	If those investigations are going to have some value, and they're going to be independent, I don't think I'm going to have any idea about them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1313	That's the line change. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1892]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1331	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1340	I am somewhat surprised that the Christian People's Party's big-time representatives chose to take up again a proposal that was rejected by the Stortinge less than a year ago. The time that the majority of the Committee now demonstrated the principles of the country's ownership policy, enshrined in the Communication of Ownership, which was widely endorsed in the Inst. S. No 163 for 2006-2007. In the Committee's position, which we are discussing today, the Council of State is accused of hiding behind formal cases when he practices the ownership management provided by the Stortinget. This passus in the setting clearly shows that the Christian People's Party has not understood how to and should exercise the management of a company. Statoil's involvement in oil sand operations in Canada through the purchase of North American Oil Sands Corporation is the result of a commercial assessment made by the company's board of directors. In St.meld. No 13 for 2006–2007, among others. the following on the country's ownership policy: «The Government wants the State that owns to express views on the role of companies in a broad sense and to follow up on the awareness of companies in their balancing of the purpose of profitability and of different societal considerations, etc. It is the directors of the companies who have to make the specific decisions.’ Thus, the State that owns has a clear expectation of both returns and other factors, including the management of environmental issues by companies, but in line with the Share Act, responsibility for the individual decisions of the Board of Directors of the companies is placed. This is not formal. It is sound ownership exercise for the benefit of the company, its employees and joint owners. Not least, the follow-up to a policy of ownership has given the Storting its support. Another handling of these principles would actually be contrary to how the Stortinget, including the Christian People's Party, has said that ownership should be exercised. The will of the great thing is not formal. The State that owns requires the management of environmental issues by companies. In Soria Moria, we have made it clear that our objective is that the companies in which the state owns will be the leaders of low-carbon and climate-reducing technologies. These are expectations to be met by the company in appropriate forums. I have a great deal of understanding that oil extraction in general and oil sands specifically engage in debate. It's important that we have a public debate about how our whole and part-owned companies shoulder their social responsibility. Unfortunately, the proposal before us does not stimulate debate on the matter itself. It is designed in such a way that it is necessary for the majority to defend ownership principles independently of what one might think about oil sand activity. That is a pity, but it should be understood – not least in the light of the discussion of the proposal less than a year ago. The position of the majority is against this background that the proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1362	This case is very simple, because it is about principles of how we should manage state ownership. The principle is that the Storting should not interfere with individual matters and oversee a board of directors. One may disagree with decisions made by the boards, and one may have other strategic visions as single representatives in this room, but in that case one must express his distrust of the board at a general meeting. We cannot handle individual cases and try to override a company where the state is not even an exclusive shareholder. In Statkraft/Statnet, a company could be run that way, even though I would not recommend it. But in Statoil, which is quoted, one should in no way. On the other hand, this case is interesting, because it shows some of the political rhetoric that has often influenced the climate debate. There are lots of parties out here and promise a lot as long as it benefits the climate, or you can achieve CO2 cut. But when it comes to reality, to actually implementing things, one sees that the principles are different, the use of tools is not in line with the objectives, and there is a great distance between what one says and what one does. During the election campaign, which is only a few months behind us, there were a lot of parties in this hall who promised that they would intervene at any cost in Statoil's work when it came to oil sand, to reverse the decision. Today we see that this is not the case. It is only the Christian People's Party that is so true of its words. I'm not sorry that the Christian People's Party does not get a majority, but the Christian People's Party has done a very good job of revealing the double communication that permeates this kind of debate. Specially the Center Party and SV have very little honour in this matter, because they are in government. They have also had state councils, especially SV, which have been very clear on what kind of ownership they wanted to exercise concretely, directly – not through communications to the board, but by intervening in this particular matter. This case also illustrates that the ownership policy of the government is, in fact, not much worth, because one has reasonable free ropes. I think one could have had very good arguments that say that betting on oil sand by the state's side is not exactly in line with the policy government would have led if it had been able to rule. Nevertheless, the company is given every opportunity to operate with the kind of strategic development that goes beyond the climate policy direction that the Government claims it has. At the same time, we shall be careful to have debates where we are trying to review the decisions of other democratic countries. We must be careful to become the rich oil boy in the class who comes to other democracies and tells them that their oil production is so polluted that we cannot allow it – but we reserve the right to continue developing Norwegian pedestal, and not least we reserve the right to develop coal on Svalbard. It is not consistent when we say at the same time that Canada, as a democratic country with Kyoto commitments and Copenhagen agreement at the bottom, will not be allowed to extract its energy resources as they think it is necessary. They themselves need to figure out how their overall energy policy is to be linked to their climate obligations and other obligations. It should not be the responsibility of Norway, nor should Norway try to stand on the outside and tell them. So I think that what would really be a very interesting debate in this context is to draw the parallel of the world's energy supply, for the rest. If we believe in the IEA, the world's energy needs will increase so much, despite many energy saving measures in the West, that we will need any oil and gas whose energy image will be linked. For the alternative to oil sands, not necessarily fine windmills or wood being burned, but there is still the maintenance of coal consumption. This does not necessarily mean that the environmental accounts are so much better — or so much worse, depending on how you see it — whether you're extracting from oil sand or whether you're extracting coal. I cannot see that Norway has gone to the Germans and asked them to cut their coal production for environmental reasons. So there's no point of view, but all of a sudden we have a very strong point of view when we're thinking about oil sand. What would have been interesting was to look at what opportunities you have to contribute to the development of shale gas. If there's one way that those who want to break oil sand can do it, it's to make sure that the alternatives are much more reasonable. Developing shale gas as an alternative to energy accounting would mean that oil sands became less profitable, and then Statoil would automatically abandon such strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1378	The State is a major owner of many companies, and the Right is concerned that the State should have a clean ownership of the companies of which the State is a partner. This means that decisions about the company’s strategies are assigned to each board of directors, which is not determined by the Storting, as this proposal puts it. Right wants a professional and predictable state ownership that leaves the business considerations to the board. Letter to the Energy and Environment Committee of the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen, dated 14 January 2010, states that the State, as a majority in recent years, has had its own annual meetings with Statoil on the sustainability of the company’s work, where ethics, the environment and social responsibility have been discussed, and that such meetings have been held within the framework of share law and state principles of good ownership. The state that owns environmental ambitions for its companies, and the Right believes it is right that we have such ambitions for our ownership. With today’s technology, oil sand extraction has high climate emissions and high energy consumption, regardless of which operator actually produces the oil. On the right, environmental challenges related to oil sand extraction are seen, but our approach to the issue is that we need to work internationally for an effective pricing of CO2 emissions so that the real environmental disadvantages are reflected in the cost picture of this and other forms of production. Norway has to take responsibility for its own emissions cuts in the same way as Canada has to take responsibility for measures to achieve our global greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Our impression is that Statoil is also aware of the environmental challenges associated with oil sand extraction, and that the company has taken on board the signals that have emerged in the public debate about their commitment to oil sand in Canada. The company attaches great importance to research and development of better technologies and extraction methods in order to better address environmental concerns. This will include, inter alia: as indicated by the company’s signal that they will focus on learning and development, step by step field development, a comprehensive technology programme and a reduction target. I also record that Statoil's leader, Helge Lund, has suggested that we need a global, efficient pricing of CO2 that reflects the actual costs of different productions, precisely in order to achieve good climate solutions. Then I would like to say to the representative of the Progress Party, who pointed out the position of other parties in the election campaign – including the Right – that we have explicitly said that our actions and expressions must take place within the requirements of the law, the Share Act, in terms of having a clean ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1403	Let me start with a confirmation: if I was a member of the Christian People's Party, I could not have advanced the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made, because I am an agnostic. Neither could Akhtar Chaudhry, the vice president. He could not have made the proposal if he was a member of the Christian People's Party. But now we are not members of the Christian People's Party, we are members of the Government Party. Let me nevertheless acknowledge that my party would probably have supported the Christian People's Party's proposal if we were in opposition. But the Christian People's Party knows very well that we are not. The Christian People's Party has been in position itself. Then I must know that I believe there is a reason why the Christian People's Party does not present this proposal when they were in government, and that there is a reason why the built gas power plant Snow White without cleaning. They didn't suggest anything for Statoil and the owners there. So I have to recognize that I'm wondering what this proposal is, which is also going to happen once before? Does it have anything to do with – and then I think a little bit about the confirmation you have to do in connection with the ten bids – stealing votes to do? Is that what we're talking about? Because it smells a little bit. Then I have to say that I am very pleased with the Soria Moria II statement, because it says that one in the next ownership message is going to go through this ownership and see how the company can contribute to lower emissions and make a better effort for the climate. That's what the Soria Moria II Declaration says. As I said, I'm a little doubtful about the motivation to make this proposal when one of the last times it got so deeply depressed. Then one takes it up again, even if one knows it's going to be thoroughly depressed. But to show the same ten bodas, I assume that I speak false, and that the Christian People's Party does not. I mean that we now have to get into a slightly more constructive track when it comes to the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left. I think we should get Climacaemia together now. I hope that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, our comrades in the climate agreement, will quickly come on track with suggestions – together – that we can work with and get implemented quickly. I hope that they don't come with such plays as the Christian People's Party here, where one becomes standing alone and the aim is probably just to steal environmental voices. I'm more busy getting practical policies that actually benefit the environment. I also hope that the Christian People's Party will continue to do so, so that we can have good cooperation in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1416	On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to say that we are followers of maintaining strong public ownership, we are followers of an active ownership, and we are followers of a ownership that is useful in promoting environmental and climate concerns – not vice versa. The letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the Committee refers to the ownership notification. It says the following: «The Government has in St.meld. No 13 An active and long-term ownership, expressed as a desire for state-owned companies to be at the forefront of environmental measures within their industry.» [[2006-2007]] Oil sand activity, such as Statoil has announced further investment, is an activity that leads to particular manufacturing impurity, while exploiting fossil resources that, exploited in the amount available, do not comply with the climate goals that the world has seen and that Norway is driving to become even more stringent. In this setting, reference is made to the Center Party's holding when it concerns environmental requirements for state-owned companies, and it is shown that we want to impose even stronger environmental requirements in the future. Of course, we still believe that. We believe that the debate on oil sands provides a basis for a debate on whether direct state ownership should not only have an objective of being at the forefront of the environmental aspects of the activities and productions within it, but whether or not he should also say something that public-owned companies should stay away from some productions of environmental importance, even if he is allowed in the host country that has the activity. In the Central Party, we believe that there is a lot of talk about such a principle being incorporated into ownership policy. The indirect state ownership that we have through the Pension Fund has, on several occasions, come to the conclusion that funds have withdrawn from some projects and companies of environmental concern. That has been true, and in the view of the Centre, the direct state ownership should have at least as clear environmental patterns as the indirect one. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is a debate that is home to the management of ownership policy, rather than through proposals from case to case in the Stortinget. Such a way of dealing with public ownership would be one of the most effective ways of undermining it. Public ownership must be robust and robust. There are many in the Center Party who are little enthusiastic about the oil sand activity. It's an activity that's urinein'. He is not environmentally sound, and this type of activity does not meet the environmental challenges facing the world. But what are the objectives, the wishes and the demands we have when it applies, for example. ownership, we must lift up at the west side of the crossroads, when we discuss ownership in this hall. That's the same view I'm expressing here today, which we expressed in the election campaign. In that light, criticism from Solvik-Olsen and the Progress Party is difficult to understand. I will claim that he is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1443	Less than a year ago, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal similar to what we now have to deal with today, prior to the StatoilHydro General Assembly on 19 May 2009. The government parties rejected the urgency of the matter in Stortinget, but assured us of a thorough examination of the matter in the committee. This ‘instant treatment’ ended in two comments from the Government Parties, with reference to the notification of ownership and the letters of reply of the Council of State, and a rejection of the proposal. When the Christian People's Party is now promoting this matter again, we are witnessing the exact same thing. The parties to the government refer to their comments the previous time the matter was up, and reject the proposal. The Right Party and the Advance Party are attached to this. But one should not be surprised after hearing the statements made by the rapporteur, where he is amazed. If this were the real point of this matter in the Storting, the Christian People's Party would not have promoted this proposal again. The reality is that two parties in this room allow the largest government party in this case, while one other party does not agree with itself – neither before nor after the election. Then to the facts of the matter. In its letter of 14 January to the Committee, the Minister for Oil and Energy argues that the State as a majority shareholder cannot intervene in matters falling within the remit of the Board of Directors. This is a strange attitude to adopt, in the light of the state representative’s vote at the 2009 General Assembly. There, the State representative had an active view of the proposal to withdraw Statoil from oil sand activities. The State as a shareholder also took an active position on the matter at the general meeting. By comparison, several other major shareholders chose not to vote. SV has tried to create the impression that the ownership message is in the way that the state can do something in this case, and the representative Langeland referred to what is in Soria Moria II. Langeland also tried that the most important thing now was to pursue a policy that benefits the environment. Yes, that's what the Christian People's Party did – we did that in 2007, when StatoilHydro bought into Canada, we did that in May 2009, when we promoted this proposal, we did that in August 2009, when we gave our answer to the voters, and we do that today. We are pursuing a policy that benefits the environment within the guidelines given by the ownership message. In the announcement of ownership, the Government writes that the State that owns promotes ‘its interests through the general meeting’. A unanimous nutrition committee specified in its recommendation that the country that owns will provide a strong focus on how, inter alia: environment can be followed up in the design and follow-up of business strategies. The Council of State's argument not to intervene in the sphere of competence of the Board is based on a premise that Statoil's billion investment in oil sand is an individual project that should not be influenced by its owners. In that case, this should mean that the oil sand project does not have any impact on the company's other operations and strategy. This is not the case. Oil resistance is of great economic and strategic importance for Statoil. The initiative is very visible and contributes to changing the company's reputation as a responsible oil company with a high environmental standard. I also record that neither does the head of the group Helge Lund share the opinion of the Council of State. During today's Business last week, Helge Lund strongly defended the oil sand project and stated that oil sand is related to the company's core competence. And not enough with that: Helge Lund also made it clear that he wants to become involved in several such projects that are technically challenging. Some would call this a strategic choice from the group manager. The Christian People's Party is among those who call this a strategic choice that belongs to the General Assembly. But the Council of State and the Government don't mean this. They prefer to call this a single project and rather stand on the sideline and wish you luck on the road. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1467	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1470	The production of oil from oil sand is one of the most polluting and environmentally polluting oil production I know. Depending on the method, extraction is associated with extensive natural interference, high energy consumption and high emissions both to water and to air. In the opinion of the Left, this is a kind of oil extraction we should stay away from, and it also applies to the involvement of the State in larger industrial enterprises, such as the United States. Statoil. When the Norwegian people through the Norwegian state sit as owners in an enterprise, yes, then we also have to take responsibility for the fact that the operation of the company is consistent with our own conscience, and we also have to decide what type of business we think is acceptable from a social responsibility point of view. I believe that it imposes an equal responsibility on us as a state to provide for this as any private investor. One point that arises in the setting is the fact that we per. Today, in practice, there are two types of corporate governance. We have one arrangement in the State pension fund – abroad, where the Ethics Council and Norway’s Bank actively take positions and try to influence companies where they are minority shareholders. On the other hand, we do not find a similar willingness to avail ourselves of the State's influence in Statoil's governing bodies in this matter. What is it that makes us have in practice two such arrangements for corporate governance? It's a paradox that we put down a lot of prestige and work in our minority positions through the State Pension Fund – Foreign, while the willingness to take positions related to the companies we're heavy inside the owner's side is almost absent. I also have to add that the red-green government has purchased heavily in Statoil after the merger with Hydro's oil and gas activities. But for what purpose, I wonder? Before the purchase, I am not aware that the government lost some important matters at the general meeting, or that they did not reach out with their positions towards the company's board of directors, which was to say that the government should have bought up to a majority shareholder. I must point out that this purchase is partly strongly characterised by symbolism. That being said, I share the concern of many that the direct exercise of a state ownership arising out of this hall can give enterprises where the state has a large ownership position, an element of risk, and the exercise of a state ownership must be handled wisely. In this context, the exercise of state ownership should be strictly the subject of a broader debate, as was the case with the rapporteur, but in this case we in the Left believe that the approach of the Christian People's Party's proposal is a wise and constructive approach. I have also recorded that there is an equal distance between life and learning as there is a distance between an election campaign and a practical policy. I have noticed that there has been widespread scepticism among the parties on the Stortinget related to Statoil's involvement in oil sand activity. It is with disappointment that I note that the will to follow up this is almost absent here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1486	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee once again subscribes to my view on this matter. Like the majority of the committee, I cannot see that there are new elements in this matter since the Stortinget, by a large majority, rejected an identical proposal on 18 June last year. It was in line with the principles of ownership management set out in the 2006 biggest ownership message. A broad majority of the Stortinget stood behind this message, where it is among other things. read: «the commercial management of the company and its responsibility lies with the management of the company.» [[...]] I am surprised that the Christian People's Party is once again trying to deviate from the principles of this matter. I notice that the member of the Committee from the Christian People's Party believes that I am hiding behind the formality of this case. That's definitely not right. What I do is to exercise ownership based on respect for the big business message about ownership, the government's ownership policy and relevant legislation. The business management of the company shall be with the management bodies of the company. It is therefore important and proper to respect the role of the Grand Duchy and relevant legislation between its governing bodies and its owners. I can otherwise assure that the State is, and shall be, an active and demanding owner of Statoil within the framework of the state's ownership principles and applicable law. Nor do I feel that there are any major differences between the state's position on this issue as the owner of Statoil and as a shareholder in other companies through the Staten Pensionsfonds – abroad. The oil sand business is not the extractive criterion of the Statens Pensjonfond – Ausland. This government has a broad commitment to climate issues and has in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership, expressed its desire for state-owned companies to be at the forefront of environmental measures within their industry. This is repeated and clarified to Stortinget later. The government has also stated in its annual ownership policy document that it is expected that the work on environmental issues in each company must be done systematically and cover the whole value chain of its activities. In the autumn of 2009, the political platform of the Government was presented. It was clear that the follow-up of the work was carried out by the owner, among others. environmental issues will be given high priority in the time to come. There should therefore be no uncertainty that the State takes its environmental responsibility and ownership seriously. As I have said on a previous occasion in this Chamber, I believe that this proposal, if it had been adopted, would help to weaken the credibility of state ownership and lead to a mix of roles that are incompatible with share law and not with state ownership principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1509	I think the attacks of the Council of State on the Christian People's Party in their posts are getting a little sloppy, because what the Christian People's Party has done is just to see an opportunity, because the College of Government until the Council of State has in the media and in the election campaign has expressed that they would have supported such a proposal if it had been submitted. But I understand that SV's national meeting became a religious meeting in which one says theirs, but before dawn sells their soul for 30 silver coins and denies their faith – so it was a problem for SV. What will be a challenge for the Council of State, it will be. What kind of vision do the councils have on oil sands in the future energy image? If oil sand actually gets a significant demand, Statoil has made a reasonable investment, but if you think that this is not going to be something particularly profitable in and no market share either, it would mean the opposite. It's more about the overall energy vision. I should have liked to have heard the views of the Council of State on just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1516	The end of the line ends up in a good and relevant question that I think is somewhat easier to deal with than the beginning of the question that was something different, and which I think I have somewhat less competence to go into. I believe that the uncertainty we see in the energy market shows the importance of this type of question being defined as business issues. We can take the example of shale gas, on which Solvik-Olsen's representative was involved in a previous round today. I don't think anyone three to five years ago was able to see the shale gas position in the energy market in the next few years. I want to say that from 2007 to 2010, the market has changed fundamentally. If we as political authorities are to go into and define the market, market opportunities and business development of a company in such an energy market, this will be completely wrong. These must be business considerations. In the case of oil sands, I do not have the opportunity to enter and make a commercial assessment of the position of oil sands in the market in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1527	If I base the opinion of the Council of State on this with oil sands, that it is not a matter for the general assembly, but a matter under the competence of the board, because it is a matter of a single matter, my question is: When the matter was up at the General Assembly on 19 May 2009, where the State’s representative took an active view of this proposal by actively voting against, what reason and what line of reasoning – given that this is a single matter that had nothing to do at the General Assembly – did the State’s representative share in this vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1532	In fact, I believe that it is so obvious that I am a little surprised that the question was asked. If a member of the General Assembly believes that a question does not belong in the General Assembly, then it must be natural to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1539	President, I'm asking for another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1547	I'm asking for another line, because it's not as simple as the Council of State wants it to. If we look at other major shareholders, they refrained from even taking a decision on this, precisely with the reasons that the Council of State has in its line of reasoning. But why did the state not then choose to adopt the same position and abstain from voting, but instead chose to vote actively against such withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1552	What other shareholders choose to do when voting, of course I cannot comment. But I can't see anything surprising and anything wrong at all. On the contrary, I believe it is absolutely right to vote against a proposal that is opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1559	I have to admit, I'm a little confused. I have to be forgiven, because I'm a new representative, and that's not all that's as easy to understand. But as I see it, the Center Party, and at least that was the case in the election campaign when they answered questions from the WWF, the Center Party wants to impose stronger environmental requirements on state companies in the future through clear ownership. They say: «We want ownership to contribute to the promotion of environmental considerations and responsibility for future generations.» Actually, I want to say that's a very good answer. As I understood the Center Party, they were against the oil sand project, because they thought it was a bad idea. As I now understand the state council in the answer, the ownership message is not good enough to be able to stop a project that the Center Party really doesn't like. So if that's what the background is, I'd like to ask: will the Council do something about the ownership message or make any suggestions that could make us stop such projects in the future, which are highly impetuous?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1572	I believe that this question has been quite well explained in the submissions that have been made earlier. First of all, Soria Moria-II said something about this, which is referred from the pulpit, about what ambitions one has for the next ownership message. In addition, I think the representative Sande is very well informed about the central party's thinking about it and about ambitions to look at environmental issues related to the ownership message when it comes to the discussion. After all, when that ownership message is adopted in the Storting, the policy will form the basis for the state's behaviour as owner in the period to which the ownership notification applies. That seems to me to be well-lit in the debate today, and I also believe that there is a logical context in it, also with regard to what was referred to by statements in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1579	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed to improve the ethical guidelines of the Oil Fund. I also want to give tribute to the party SV and Left, who have been with us in that work. When we now know that we have received so good ethical guidelines as well as environmental issues, there is good reason to believe that if we had got this project on the table in the Ethical Committee which is assessing which companies we are going to go into the Pension Fund, that committee would have to have said no to the oil sands project. My question to the Council of State is: Is it then problematic for the Council of State, which is the General Assembly of Statoil, that Statoil has gone into a project to which the Ethics Committee of the Ethics Fund should have said no and which the oil fund could not have invested?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1586	I am probably somewhat uncertain as to what kind of basis the representative Hareide has to say that the oil fund could not have agreed to such an investment. I also mentioned that recently in the pulpit. In addition, I believe that the framework we have set for the oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil, where Statoil is a major part of the economy, has contributed to the world's top level of oil production in Norway in terms of environmental requirements, energy efficiency and emissions. Among other things, we have zero emissions in the Barents Sea, which the representative Hareide has also had a relationship with earlier. The point is that we, through the governance of the Norwegian socket, through the requirements of the companies to which the Norwegian authorities relate, have contributed precisely to lifting these requirements. So through the ownership message, as I've said sometimes now, we're going to have the overall attitude to how we run our companies. Then we're not going to miss what I've sometimes commented on, that it's going to be completely wrong if we as the authorities go in and run the companies in individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1593	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1598	It is good that there is an exposure related to state-owned whole companies or companies in which the State has a large holding, as in Statoil. What is a little bit of a shame is that what is initially a healthy interest in the company and its strategy, in this case, is channelled out in a slightly misunderstood way. Being a dominant owner in large companies with thousands of employees is a huge responsibility. In addition, this company manages almost unfathomable values. It is not just populist, but it is simply irresponsible to manage the company that is closest to it by day or by way of introduction. The behaviour of the State as an owner was the subject of broad debate and good practice in this Chamber only two years ago in the context of the ownership notification. There was one thing that gathered broad uprisings here on the Stortinget, and where the Christian People's Party's representative, Sørfonn, was the case rapporteur in a very exemplary way. If we first start to make exceptions to our principles of state governance every time we think that there are good reasons for that, I believe that we are on a little dangerous road. The state that owns must be good and predictable. This concerns, among other things: to deal with other shareholders and the Share Act, which also applies to the State. Then I need to clarify that this is not about the matter itself. I am personally strongly critical of Statoil's oil sand operations. That resistance has little to do with my environmental exposure or that I'm worried about Canada's CO2 accounting. Canada's CO2 accounting is Canada's responsibility. It's primarily about the fact that I'm convinced that this is a commercial bombing. We could read in the Evening Post last week that some major American companies now will not buy fuel from oil sand companies. They refer to it as ‘pig’ production. This I think is an expression of a conscious consumer power that we have so far just seen the beginning of. That a forward-looking, innovative company like Statoil is going to use its resources to involve itself in this kind of project, whether it's in Canada or elsewhere, I honestly think is very unfortunate, especially in relation to the company's reputation. Statoil cannot both set itself the goal of being first in the world in terms of new and green forms of energy, while being environmental hosts on oil sands. There is a type of weekendage that makes the company unprofiled, while the danger of insisting is more than imminent. There are many examples of unprofiled companies that claim fatal consequences. The newspaper is a timely example of this. You have to set clear targets and be tough enough to meet those targets. I don't think it's a good idea to bet a little bit on everything. But we don't control companies by adopting Document No. Eight proposals in Stortinget. In fact, I do not believe that the Christian People's Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1617	In such a debate, I would like to start by raising my eyes a little. What's this really about here? Well, it's about one of the biggest crises we're facing, the climate crisis. It's about our responsibility for coming generations and for the world's poorest. That is why we want it to happen as much as possible on the climate front, and that is why we want it to happen as quickly as possible. We know that if it continues as today, and if we can't cut greenhouse gas emissions, the next generations will not have the same possibilities as us. And then we know that it is the world's poorest that will be the most severe. The responsibility we have to do something with these emissions is exactly what we are now discussing. What is the background to the challenge of oil sand? Well, that's exactly what oil sand is all about. Emissions from the extraction of oil sands are at least ten times worse than from the oil we extract in Norway. As the Evening Post writes, they will collect emissions – if the project forecasts go in – they will be the same as half of the “world’s most ambitious” 30 pst climate targets. Cut, which is what the Government has submitted. So, half of the cutters that are the most ambitious in the world will correspond to the same emissions that come only from this project in Canada. I have to say that during the debate there was an intervention, from the representative of Langeland, who got me to say something more. SV is a clear opponent of the oil sand project and a strong fan of public ownership. But if you look at what SV does in the Storting, it's quite different, because there they demonstrate exactly the opposite: they don't use ownership and support the oil sand project in Canada. Solheim said to the Evening Post in the election campaign that ‘most of the Nordics will find it difficult to take a climate-relief in their own lives when they see state-owned enterprises entering into projects with very large emissions in other countries’. That's exactly what this is all about. When the representative of Langeland starts talking about Climate Change, about the long-term projects and about other types of actions, the Christian People's Party is, of course, completely in line. I think the state should lead by example through its state-owned eight businesses. Therefore, we have repeatedly warned against this project and given the Government the opportunity not to go into the oil sand project in Canada. That's why I think that some of the big responsibilities we're discussing today are: how can we take the most possible cut? Climate change can take us all the way, but today we are discussing this concrete measure, and this concrete action will mean an enormous amount of pollution if it is implemented. That is why the SV should also vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1633	This has been an elusive debate, and the most clarifying thing was the change in line, in which the Council of State said that one must vote against it. Then it's very clear that the Center Party gives clear support to the oil sand project, precisely through the vote. When the Council of State says that one must vote against the one you are against, one has been given a clear clarification by the Central Party Council. It's disappointing, because this is one of the most environmentally polluting projects we've seen in the Norwegian oil industry. It's 7 million tons of CO2. This project will release more than any Norwegian car at its top level. So this production is ten times as disconcerting as it is the production of oil in the North Sea. The consequences are significant for the climate, but there is also much to say for the local environment in Canada: observations on increased cancer risk, not recommended bathing, prohibition of eating fish from the area. Some people make this a formal discussion. Before the 2005 elections, there was a lot of talk about an active ownership. We have experienced an active ownership. For me, it's a paradox to hear this discussion, when we know that for a year ago we had a discussion about Aker, where the government was absolutely willing to go into the matter. That's why it's a very neat way to deal with these issues, to make a concrete proposal that the General Assembly can decide on. It was also interesting to hear the representative of Langeland, who made a statement, but I have a great understanding of the bad conscience of the representative of Langeland. My challenge, on the other hand, goes to the Right Party. The party received a direct question from the Evening Post: ‘Do you want to stop the project if you come to government?’ ‘– Yes, it is in the cards’, says Ivar Kristiansen. And on direct questions from the WWF, Right says: ‘Right will use all available means of pressuring StatoilHydro to withdraw from the oil sand project within the sound ownership requirements imposed by the Public Share Act.’ This is just a proposal that is very neat and makes clear demands. That's why it's strange that the Right doesn't follow what they said in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1654	I agree with the summary of the debate by the previous speaker. I also find it interesting to listen to the contributions of the representative Hallgeir Langeland, who speculates in the motives of the Christian People's Party to promote such a proposal. I can't then stop looking back at the time when I myself was State Secretary in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the representative of Langeland was an energy and environmental spokesperson for SV in opposition. I would argue that the Christian People's Party still has a piece left to match SV's very active and offensive opposition role in that way. It is referred to here that the state's ownership policy requires that one refrain from taking a decision on the kind of questions that we are discussing today. But it is a fact that this issue of investment in the oil sand project in Canada has actually been dealt with by the highest body in the company, namely the General Assembly. It is also a fact that the various owners and investors that invested in Statoil took a stand on this proposal, and commercial investors chose to vote differently from the State’s representative. It must be a crossroads of thought for a red-green government and for an oil and energy minister from the Central Party. That also leads to a thought experiment: Is it true that if we had replaced a red-green oil and energy minister with a commercial investor taken from the Statoil General Assembly, we would have had a better climate policy? It should be a cross of thought. The ownership message is constantly referred to and it does not have to go beyond Section 4 of this Communication until it says: «The government has long-term objectives for its ownership. This implies that consideration of the environment, migration, diversity, ethics, research and development needs to be included in the Governing Board's assessments in order to support long-term development.» What does it mean when we're going to manage this ownership on behalf of the state? Does it matter anything? It has been shown that it is a great responsibility to be a large owner of such a company. Then, in my clear opinion, it is not particularly responsible to manage that ownership by saying that we should support this in the general meeting, and at the same time we should argue against it from the pulpit and say that we are personal opponents of that type of investment and think it is a bad business investment. It's not good ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1670	There has been an interesting debate to listen to. In particular, we see that the Christian People's Party is running about what they have in Stortinget to argue for a very poorly thought-out proposal, and you don't even take into account the arguments that are going on here. It is possible to be opposed to oil sands while having a clean relationship with ownership policy and ownership management. As I said in my first post, one of the problems here is that once again, for the second time in less than a year, Christian People's Party has done the art of taking an important theme into the hall in such a way that it generates a conclusion that, on the one hand, doesn't say anything about what the parties had to think about the question they want to raise, and on the other hand, it's really just saying that the Storting has a massive majority for a tidy management of ownership. That is a positive aspect of this. To say a few words about oil sand operations in general, I would say, as the representative Marianne Marthinsen said, it's so fine that Canada's use of its CO2 emission allowances is Canada's problem. This is an activity under the Kyoto regime. If Canada chooses to allow this, which is a particularly demanding extraction of high-carbon oil, Canada will have to pay for it that way. There are other challenges to oil extraction, which relate to the use of other natural resources in production. I believe that it is important that Statoil and any other company that goes into that type of business address in a proper and good way. I think one should have a greater focus in the entire remaining oil business on how to do it within an environmentally good framework. We know that the simple barrels have already been removed. What remains now, which is to cover the consumption of oil in the coming years, becomes more demanding projects – heavy oil, oil sands, shale gas and extraction in areas where there has been no previous intervention. It's going to be the future of oil business. In that case, companies must focus on the environment. So the CO2 emissions are going to be a matter for itself, which I hope we get a good quota segment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1690	When I choose to take the floor, it is because of the statements of Knut Arild Hareide on the Right and Election Lifts on the question of oil sand. Now it is possible that the representative Hareide was not present in the room when I had my post. Therefore, for security reasons, I just want to repeat my message, which is that in our answer to this question, it was a premise, expressed in writing, that our work had to be done within the framework of the share law for a good and tidy ownership. It weighs heavily on the Right that the State as a large owner of Statoil, as well as on other companies, should be a professional owner, a predictable owner and not least a tidy owner. It was as a pre-requisite in relation to the fact that the Right also pointed out that it was demanding in oil sand development in terms of energy use and in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1695	I'm on the same errand as the representative Meling. I also have a very brief message to the representative of Hareides, and I will not spend any more time wondering that I am surprised that the Christian People's Party cannot participate in a fundamental introduction to this question. I just want to repeat my message when it comes to voting in a general meeting: if you think that a general meeting is not the arena to discuss a given question, it is also natural to announce it by voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1701	I have said most of the things I shall say in the debate, but I took the floor again when I heard Mr Henriksen's comments relating to Canada's responsibility for its own emissions. I have to say that it is a very special approach to climate policy and a very special approach to business responsibilities to contribute to sustainable development and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. It has been a coherent view – not only in Norway, but internationally – that we should address climate problems, it is a shared responsibility – a cooperation between authorities, individuals, organisations and businesses to develop a sustainable society and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Sending out a signal to business and companies that one can invest in Norway, invest in other countries, and saying that it is the responsibility of the authorities to manage emissions and take the bill for the emissions that it may bring is a whole new approach to climate policy and an approach different from that of the current government in their own documents on climate policy that they have presented to the Storting. It's actually a shared responsibility. We take responsibility for the greenhouse gas emissions and the national greenhouse gas accounts, but we are clear to business that we are expecting cooperation, that we expect each business to now work systematically with its own emissions to turn business into sustainable development. This, of course, applies to privately owned enterprises. This applies not least to state-owned joint ventures, for which we actually have a responsibility. It is Norwegian climate policy, and I have also seen that it has been the climate policy of the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1708	Now at the end of the debate just a few comments to the Christian People's Party. First to the challenge I gave the Christian People's Party, Right and Left at the end of the article, namely that now we have received a climate cure, and a number of suggestions are listed. We've had a climate deal with those parties. Now I think it's important for them to get into a constructive track where one actually comes up with things one knows one can collaborate about and get multiples for. And when Ropstad wants to take a look, first of all, it's like if we were members of the Christian People's Party, we couldn't have looked at them, because they want us to look down and not say anything, even look down to the sand when we have this case here. But hope is in on an important point. It's simply that when he was Secretary of State at the Bondevik government, we worked together in a number of environmental fields. We got some decisions: on electrification, on green certificates, which correctly did not happen. We cooperated concretely on things that were possible with a minority government. When it comes to Statoil and ownership, SV has always been against privatizing Statoil just to be able to control, but to get that government to do something there, it wasn't any help to get from the Christian People's Party – in position – because they wouldn't do anything to control Statoil. Now there's a number on Stortinget that doesn't want it in this case. So I said in my post that Soria Moria II says that one should go through the company's business with a view to becoming the best international on climate and air pollution issues. So there's an opening there to discuss a ownership policy, and that's the opening we want to come back to when the ownership message comes. After eight years in the Energy and Environment Committee, it is interesting to be back in the flea box.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1719	I have to comment briefly on the post of the representative Håbrupke, who appeared to be a bit strange. What's my point is that oil sand operations in Canada are conducted within a Kyoto regime, within a trading regime, where quotas are set. This does not mean that there will be more CO2 emissions in the world. It is quite clear that in Canada – I believe, and I believe it has also been confirmed – there are strict demands on the emissions from individual companies, quite clearly, just as we demand that there should be minimum emissions from the oil and gas extraction in the North Sea. But this is the Canadian authorities that handle it. This is within the regime. It is not the CO2 emissions that concern me, because at some point it also has to be priced, in the sense that it will make the project expensive if you do not get the CO2 emissions down. And we hope that the emission requirements are set in such a way that they contribute to technological development, which means that it is possible to extract – let's say – the remaining petroleum resources in such a way as to minimise CO2 emissions, and thus make the most efficient use of those resources. It will be good according to my terms. The whole point here is that this is happening within the framework that's there, and it's the Canadian authorities that control it. Statoil as a company must take into account the benefits of their business development. That's what we demand. We are demanding long-term returns. We demand that the company has an environmental profile. The company itself says that they want to do this in the best possible environmental way. Yes well, but there are also some assessments of, as the representative Marthinsen was about, whether there is a good profile for Statoil to be engaged in this business. But it's Statoil's government that has to handle. It is Statoil's board that is responsible to the owners for managing both the company's reputation and values in such a way that it generates the returns we want both in the long term and in the short term. It is not the Stortinget to go in and give – to say – its day-to-day instructions on what the company is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1738	The Christian People's Party's attitude to Statoil's strategic choice of going into oil sands has nothing to do with the Christian People's Party's day-form or popularity – at least the representative Marthinsen could be interpreted. I would rather say in her own words that "this is a commercial bombardment." So let it be fixed. At least the representative of Langeland has done one good thing for this debate if we look up a little – and a little up: he has been printed out the ten bids. As a theologian, I hope that more people will use it and live by it. But the representative Langeland wondered if the Christian People's Party was not driving and stealing votes. No, we don't drive and steal voices. When StatoilHydro entered his oil sand projects in Canada, the representative Langeland had resigned from the Energy and Environment Committee. But I sat there, and I went out that day and said what the Christian People's Party thought about it, and I've done that clearly all the way, because we believe that this was a strategic mistake choice of Statoil at the time, which we also believe it is now. Then the representative Henriksen says that it is possible to oppose oil sands and have a clean relationship with ownership policy. Yes, we fully agree with that, and we feel that the Christian People's Party also has, which also had the case-rapporteur when dealing with the ownership message. We're against oil sand operations. And then we believe that this is below the general meeting, as we read the setting with the comments given: a strong focus on how, among other things. environment can be followed up in the company's design and follow-up of business strategies. Or to quote the Government itself, the state promotes its interests ‘through general assembly’. The Christian People's Party has a clean relationship with state ownership. The Christian People's Party has a clean relationship with oil sands. I want to spend the last few seconds at Langeland's invitation in the field of Climate Change. I understand that Langeland does not believe that SV is getting so much influence and impact in relation to the big message to be presented, since he was already presented one day after the Climate Change Day, asking for help to be constructive and to draw the government in the right track, as we did in 2007, and I can promise Langeland that it will not be on the Christian People's Party. Yesterday I told you that you would like to have the Christian People's Party climate cure and menu if that is what is needed to draw the Government in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1892]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1770	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1779	In the proposal for a representative, the government is asked to create an action plan for CO2 capture and storage from the largest point emissions in industry. Furthermore, the action plan is requested to be submitted to the Stortinget by the end of 2010. In the setting, a multiple suggested that the proposed representative be appended to the protocol. The background to this recommendation is the development and deployment of CO2 cleaning technologies, which are also mentioned in the letter from the Council of State on the subject. The capture and storage of CO2, whether from oil and gas production, other power generation or industry, will no doubt be decisive for reducing climate emissions and reaching the above 2-degree target. Therefore, it is a very important theme that the proposers address. Because if we never succeed in energy efficiency improvement so much, the world's energy needs will dramatically increase in the future, not least in developing countries if they too are to say necessary developments. Conversion from fossil fuels to renewable energy will also not meet this need. Therefore, the world must be happy with the capture of CO2. I believe that in international climate work there are two areas of Norway that can contribute in such a way that it makes a difference. Efforts are being made to conserve rainforest and develop new technologies, including: for the capture and storage of CO2. That's why they're also betting on these two areas. Here we have to sharpen our bet, and so is our bet. Over the period from 2006 to 2009, more than DKK 3 billion of the government budget is allocated to CO2 management, with a budget of DKK 3 billion this year. We need to develop forward-looking and efficient technologies so that CO2 management can be realised nationally and internationally. I understand the desire for a concrete action plan for capture and storage from large point emissions in industry, but then we need a good, well-developed and cost-effective technology. This is demanding and probably takes a little longer than the optimists have previously predicted. However, we must insist that Norway should be a transitory country and, together with other countries, contribute to CO2 capture and storage becoming a well-recognized measure to reduce CO2 emissions. Our biggest effort to develop this is the technology center in Mongstad. What is happening here will also have an impact on the future management of industrial emissions. Here, two different capture technologies are tested on two different emission sources with different CO2 content in the exhaust gas. Testing experience here will be relevant, not only for gas power plants, but also for coal power plants and industrial processes. However, emissions from industry will require adaptation or other process engineering solutions. Therefore, targeted research, development and testing are needed. In this context, I also point out that the Government of the revised national budget will propose to extend the mandate of CLIMIT to research and demonstration projects for CO2 management in industry. Then I refer to the report Climate Change 2020, which was presented yesterday. Here there are a number of measures that individually and in sum can help bring down our greenhouse gas emissions. To sum up, CO2 capture and storage also at large point emissions in industry is becoming very important. That's why it's a necessary bet range, and it's going to be done a lot. But we still need research, technology development and testing to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1830	One may have sympathy for the starting point of the Christian People's Party in this matter, but wise of harm, when we see how the Government has previously managed the industry in these areas, the Progress Party will not support the proposal. However, there is a discussion about the instrument, which is important, but I think that we can well wait for a more thorough discussion of the climate cure, so that we get a whole in what we're doing. When I say ‘clock of harm’, it is in view of the fact that the climate quota law, to which much of the industry is subject, has a very strict allocation to Norwegian industry. Thus, the government has not been committed to ensuring the competitiveness of the industrial enterprises falling under the Climate Change Act, but has been committed to boasting that one has the strictest allocation of all the countries included in the Kyoto Agreement. As a result, Norwegian industry in global competition has a different cost picture than its competitors. This means that they have a lower margin and will lose in international competition in the long term, although they initially have better environmental accounts than competitors. Instinct national approach simply destroys competitiveness. They also bottle up the capital industry by requiring the industry to carry out the trading of allowances for money that they could have used to develop their competitiveness, developing technologies that could in the future have been more cut if one had been more flexible by the Government. During Question Time, the Progress Party has challenged the Government in this area and has done as Norwegian industry has also wanted, for example. said that if the Norwegian industry puts money into research, development and new technology or implements measures in Norway that are more expensive than the quota suggests that one should do in Norway, one should nevertheless be rewarded with a better quota allocation than one would otherwise have – ergo: a government flexibility where one shows that if you take responsibility for the Norwegian industry, you will not have to take the full cost yourself. You're going to have to cover a part by buying fewer allowances. The government has rejected it, because that's not how you could hold within the quota section. Now I don't think it's lost forever, but it's been the starting point, which shows that you haven't had the best of industry in mind. One also sees it in relation to what is a review theme in the proposal, in the rationale, that there is more potential for CO2 capture and storage from industry than from gas power stations when looking at costs. At the same time, we know that there is still some on the technology side when it comes to this. When you look at how gas power plants in Norway are treated – Industrial Power Møre in Fräna is demanding CO2 cleaning at start-up, a technology that the Government itself recognises is not commercially available, and therefore has to use billions of dollars to develop in Mongstad, but private operators must therefore be responsible and implement, or implement, this commercial technology at their own expense in order to start the gas power plant – yes, I do not trust that the Government will be reasonable in terms of other industries in relation to making unrealistic demands. That's not the risk I'm putting at the industry. Therefore, I would like the Government to follow up the theme further and, in its work on the Climate Action Programme, to come to the Stortinget and show that it has got a different view of this, that it really understands the need of the Norwegian industry to have competitive framework conditions, and that one, in cooperation with industry and industry, is able to find schemes that allow one to try to develop technology in Norway, that one is trying to implement technology in Norway, but that one does not, at the same time, punish the industry financially by having fees or quota obligations in addition to what other countries have. The important thing here if we are to ensure that Norwegian industry continues to be a leader in its areas is to ensure that the money spent on the environment remains in the industrial environments and does not go into the state treasury and that industry also has to finance any measures. This does not mean, with the policy that the government has led, that the industry is shutting down overnight and going away, but it means that one next time one is going to reinvest, thinking well about whether Norway is the country where one feels has predictability and competitive conditions that make it attractive to invest here. It is enough to look at my home country, Rogaland, and Hydro’s refusal to build new aluminium production there — it shows that Norway has not been attractive in this area lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1849	There is a preliminary distance between words and action in the Government’s climate policy. The insidiousness of the government is particularly unfortunate for industry and industry, which depends on predictable framework conditions for making investment decisions. It's not worse to know than to know that it's getting worse. Realising CO2 capture and storage from high point industrial emissions by 2020 is a demanding exercise. Still, significant technological developments remain, and the path is far from being abducted to completed full-scale facilities. We should have learned this from the process in Mongstad, and it is also in Mongstad that we must learn to scratch before we can go to industry, even though we agree that it must be researched specifically in the field of industrial capture in the years to come. We have heard for a long time that the plant at Mongstad will be finished in 2014. In recent months it seems clear that 2014 is a moving goal. We're talking about 2015, but there are always optimists. Right supports the development of clean-up and storage technologies in Mongstad. Oil revenues, in combination with some of the world's leading technology and competence environments, put us in a unique position to be part of the solution to the climate crisis. The aim must be to develop technologies that contribute to the crisis not only becoming a problem but also an opportunity that creates new green jobs. However, it must be allowed to ask some critical questions about the process and its implementation in Mongstad. If Norway is to invest DKK 25 billion of taxpayers’ money in one full-scale CO2 clean-up and storage facility, we have to make sure that the project is realised within a timeframe that will ensure that the technology is still up-to-date when the plant is finished and that it can be used in installations in other countries at an affordable price for more than the world’s richest country. Significant research and technological development work will be undertaken at the test centre in Mongstad. The ownership of the results of this work will naturally lie with those who own the technology, in this case Alstom and Aker Clean Carbon. The State will pay a significant proportion of the money, in which the state, national research and technology environments and other important societal actors are not allowed to participate. It is then natural to ask the Council of State: how are other research communities to enjoy the considerable work to be done in Mongstad? How will the Council of State ensure that an investment of nearly DKK 6 billion into a test centre and perhaps a further DKK 25 billion for a full-scale facility will bring infective and learning effects to similar plants in industry? The Council of State writes in a letter to the Committee that the technology centre in Mongstad will ‘have a high transfer value in developing industrial emissions capture processes’. If it is true that Aker and Alstom own the research and test results, and I reserve the right to make mistakes here, how does the Council of State believe that the test centre should have a high transfer value for similar industrial plants? The Council of State has received indications from the companies that this is information they are willing to share, for example: with the other Norwegian research communities working with CCS? Can the Council explain how these issues have been addressed in the agreements governing the relationship between the State as a sponsor and the commercial actors involved in Mongstad, including Statoil? If we succeed in Mongstad, and we have to hope that we do, technology can be made commercially available to plants in other parts of the world. Has the State ensured that it can also take part in a possible upside of the investments in Mongstad, or is both the upside and the ownership of the technology reserved for Aker Clean Carbon and Alstom? The EU has launched a very ambitious and offensive CO2 capture and storage programme. It's brilliant. Competition makes us better, and we need a variety of solutions. In these OL times, it might still be nice to remember that a simple victory is preferable to the most complicated defeat. There's no need to smear away at Mongstad. We all have opportunities to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1881	The cleaning of high point emissions in industry is one of the most effective and targeted measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. At present, there are more than 10 Norwegian industrial installations with annual emissions of more than 400000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The State is the joint owner of six of these industrial plants. This provides opportunities for cooperation on CO2 capture and storage. Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions have continued to increase year on year since the Kyoto Protocol was signed. The exception is 2008, when emissions decreased as a result of the financial crisis. Emissions are expected to increase in the years ahead, including: as a result of the start-up and operation of gas power stations on Mongstad and Kårstø. In the climate agreement, we agreed that Norway will contribute by 2020 to a cut in global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of Norway’s 1990 emissions. As part of this, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway shall be reduced by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes in relation to the reference track. The Climate Action Group in 2020 presented yesterday its report on actions that need to be implemented in order to meet climate objectives. There were many good measures to choose from here. Carbon capture and storage from three industries in Grenland is projected as the single industry measure with the highest emission reduction potential by 2020 – a total of 1.5 million. tonnes of CO2. To achieve this, an action plan for CO2 capture is needed in industry. Therefore, I had hoped that the representatives of the government parties would at least have mentioned the climate change 2020 efforts in this area. After all, the government has announced that they will take one year to find out which menus to choose in the Climate Action Plan. The agreement came into place in 2008. Those measures shall be implemented in 2012 and shall have an impact by 2020. As far as I remember, it was precisely this that was the purpose of the climate communication and the climate agreement: to propose measures and instruments to reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. The government’s policy in this area can be summarised as follows: The time passes — the emissions pass. The Director of the International Energy Agency stated in October 2009 that the world needs hundreds of large-scale CO2 capture and storage projects by 2020, 850 by 2030 and 3,400 by 2050. Norway has an explicit objective of being at the international front in the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, on behalf of the Government, has stated that this is the Government’s ‘monthly landing project’. The government set itself the goal of achieving the full-scale capture and storage of CO2 at the gas power plant in Mongstad by 2014. The gas power plant at Kårstø was scheduled to be cleaned in 2009, a year we have now left behind, but the plans have been postponed indefinitely. SINTEF Energy Research presented in June 2008 a report showing that CO2 capture from high point industrial emissions can be cheaper than capture from gas power plants. The price is not necessarily higher than other measures we need to implement in order to achieve the Biggest Climate Goals. The report presented yesterday, Climate Change 2020, assessed CO2 capture from the 10 largest point sources in the Norwegian industry. We also have reports from Tel-Tek that underpin the 2008 Sintef findings. With this background, it is amazing that the Government does not want to draw up an action plan for CO2 capture in industry. In the government's original plans, we would have two full-scale fishing facilities in place in 2014. Then a plan could be good to have – a plan that contains a couple more to meet the 2020 target. I understand that CO2 capture technology is not a shelf product and that there are currently large costs associated with CO2 management. I fully support the work done in research, development and demonstration, but I do not see this as an obstacle to developing an action plan for CO2 capture and storage in industry. If Norway is to manage to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions, we need to address the major sources of emissions — the sooner the better. I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1951	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e1954	I refer you to the representatives from the Hämdal, Hareide, Håbreek and Andersen Eide representatives on the preparation of an action plan for CO2 capture and storage from large point emissions in industry. By 2030 the world's energy needs are estimated to be nearly 50 pst. higher than today. This will result in a significant increase in emissions and could result in global warming of 6 degrees compared to pre-industrial levels. It's not sustainable. We have to change the course. CO2 capture and storage may be one of the main measures of such a change in price. According to the IEA, the 2-degree target will require the construction of 3,400 full-scale CCS installations before 2050. 1700 of these would have to be industrial plants. There are four CCS plants in the world. Two of them, Sleipner and Snow White, are in Norway. Norway is thus in full contact with this area. Governments will contribute to the development of forward-looking and efficient CCS technologies. I believe it is central that we develop knowledge and experience from our own projects in Norway, and in this way we are leading the way. The aim is that our contribution, together with efforts in other countries, should make CCS a good and recognised national and international climate action. In order for CCS to be a good climate action, it must be developed further. Our greatest effort now is the development of the technology center in Mongstad. In Mongstad, the initiative takes place in stages, in accordance with the Implementation Agreement between the State and Statoil of 2006. The government's objective is that the technology centre should become a focused technology testing arena and that experience should be disseminated. In this way, we can help reduce the cost and risk of full-scale CO2 capture. The reduction of costs is essential for the broad application of technology. Two different capture technologies are tested on two different emission sources with different CO2 content in the exhaust gas. The Mongstad refinery gas represents one type of industrial emissions. As a result, experience from testing will be relevant not only for gas power plants but also for coal power plants and industrial processes. The second step in Mongstad bet is the establishment of full-scale CO2 management for the CHP plant that is being built in connection with the refinery. The planning work is under way. I am concerned that the Mongstad full-scale project balances progress, the development of best possible technology and cost control in an efficient and good way. Technologies for capture of CO2 from power plants are still unexploited on a larger scale, including worldwide. I believe that the Mongstad projects will contribute to the necessary technological development. The technology tested here will have an impact on emissions reductions far beyond what the projects themselves represent. It will also apply to industrial emissions. The Government has also launched a CO2 transport and storage project to ensure the safe transport and storage of CO2 from the Norwegian planned projects. CCS in industry will face transport and storage challenges similar to those of CCS in power generation. Therefore, experience from transport and storage projects will be transferable to future transport and storage of CO2 from industry. In 2007, the industry accounted for about 1/5> of Norwegian CO2 emissions, or about 10 million. tonnes. The potential is particularly high for emission sources in the process and cement industries, refineries and fertiliser production. As an example, Norcem can be developed at home in Grenland – and Brevik. The cement plant there emits about 800 000 tonnes of CO2 annually. It is almost equivalent to the total emissions from air traffic in Norway. Emissions from industry will largely have a different composition and CO2 concentration than emissions from power plants. It requires process engineering adaptations in the capture process and the development of chemicals. For this reason, targeted research, development and demonstration are necessary and, therefore, the Government decided last November that the mandate of the CLIMIT programme should be extended to technologies for CO2 management of industrial emissions. The Decision will enter into force once ESA has been notified and it has been up and running in the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget 2010. In the 2010 state budget, it is set at 180 million. kr for research into this. That's $30 million. kr more than in the budget for this year. Today, the portfolio of the CLIMIT programme consists of projects in the field of capture from fossil power plants and CO2 storage. Most of the capture projects have a lot of transfer value to what we're talking about now. A lot of money has been allocated to these areas in recent years. We will ensure that we have CCS projects with high transfer value also to the largest projects – and where the largest resources are used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2024	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2027	It was with great interest that I heard parts of the post, where the Council of State in a way recognised that CO2 cleaning from gas power plants is not readily commercially available today. That is why we need to spend money on developing it, and the Mongstad project is something the Progress Party supports – as long as it is done in a sensible way. But it draws the parallel to Industrikraft Møre, who has been granted a concession by this Council of States, but has been granted an emission permit requiring CO2 cleaning from the start-up, from another Council of State, and where the Ministry of Environmental Protection considers that the technology is commercially available. One of the councils must then be wrong in their reality, for one cannot both say that it is not commercial and that it is commercially available. So, what is the opinion of the Council of State on the emission requirements for Industrial Power Møre – are the unrealistic demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2040	It is possible to clean gas power plants with the technology we know. As for what I said about Mongstad, it was a clarification of what I also said in the Stortinget earlier. I am concerned about finding the balance of progress further – i.e. that we get the cleaning going fast enough, but at the same time use the money sensibly and have a quality assurance along the way. I would assume that private operators will also think about any other clean-up projects, such as. on the Moor Coast. So there will be an assessment that individual enterprises — or individual beneficiaries — will have to make in relation to the progress of the project. The risks and uncertainties surrounding the project will be proportionate to the speed, progress and new knowledge involved in the project as it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2046	CCS is an important theme – that's why there are so many people gathered here today! I had some very concrete challenges to the Council of State in my post. I am very pleased that he noted diligently and responded so well to them in his post. But I'm not sure if I got an answer to everything, so I try again: how will the Council of State ensure that the knowledge that is now being acquired in Mongstad has transfer value to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2053	I think irony is a brilliant form of humor! I heard a number of specific questions about the rights of what is being carried out at Mongstad – the progress that is coming, and the results that will be used further. The representative Astrup was relatively detailed in the questions, and I think I'm going to ask him to send me a written question, and then I'm going to give a comprehensive, proper and partly technical answer to how these relationships are regulated in the agreement. I think that's the best thing about an area that is quite technical and detailed and where there have been quite long processes between the different actors to ensure the relationship between invested capital in the project, ownership of it and just the need for general access to that information and progress and the progress made through this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2062	The issue we are dealing with now is an action plan on CO2 capture and storage. With a little uncertainty – I think I heard the Council of State mentioning the action plan for CO2 capture and storage, presenting what input he made – or quoting from the letter received by the Committee on 4 December 2009. My question to the Council of State is: why can't we get an action plan on CO2 capture and storage from the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2080	I believe that what we see with regard to CCS and CO2 in Norway shows an extremely strong commitment to the progress of the authorities in this area. There is no country that spends more money on these measures in relation to the population than we do in this area. I mentioned the main projects, which are now Mongstad, but there has also been considerable efforts with at least indirect State participation in both the Sleipner and Snow White projects, so here's the action that is the ongoing move in terms of CCS efforts. So representative Hemdal takes up the question of industrial emissions, and that's what I also addressed in my answer about what I'm going to get to Stortinget in the revised national budget, and the mandate of CLIMIT, to work more broadly towards the industry related to the CCS projects, and I also addressed in my post the link between what's done at Mongstad and the transfer value of the job in industry. So here we have a plan, we're working after it, and I think it's offensive working around CCS that's at the top of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2090	I became a little engaged in the posts of the Council of State, because I believe that one cannot understand it in any other way than that he himself granted CO2 cleaning at gas power plants is not commercially available – that there are opportunities technologically, yes, but costly it makes it completely uninteresting. It's like asking people to assess a moon trip just as well as evaluating a sewing trip, because it's also technically available. In the letter from the Ministry of Environment dated 15 May 2009 to the developer, i.e. Industrikraft Møre, they say that there should be CO2 cleaning at start-up and that CO2 capture technology should be considered as available. Government posts here today do not indicate that it is commercially interesting for anyone to build it. A gas power plant in this region must be of interest in terms of energy security. Does the Council of State really believe that a private operator without special cash flow would bring forward a CO2 clean-up project on its own in order to be able to deliver a gas power plant that the Council of State really has the greatest interest of all in here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2109	I don't think my answer to this question is going to be so very different than it was before. In the case of point 1, i.e. whether it's commercially interesting, you have to ask the commercial actors if they perceive it so that it's in relation to the project that I and I are involved in. Then I believe that the balance that is going to ensure the quality of the project and provide cost control/cost-effectiveness along the way must be balanced against the need to quickly put in place cleaning solutions. I think there are questions that need to be addressed to those who are working on the commercial projects, as to how they perceive the balances of the projects that they want to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2116	I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity to send a written question to the Council of State, but in the meantime it must also be possible to get an answer to whether it is right that ALSTOM and Aker will own both the test results and, of course, the technology contained in this, which comes from Mongstad, and whether he can confirm that what he wrote to the Committee is on track, namely, that what developed at the Technology Centre in Mongstad will have great transfer value in developing industrial emissions capture processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2121	Yes then, I am definitely going to take the opportunity to confirm what the representative of Astrup here mentions. So I still think that giving an information to the representative Astrup on Stortinget in a broad way as to how the issue of rights is handled on Mongstad is the sensible way, because here it is a relatively comprehensive project and a comprehensive agreement that underpins both the commercial players to be involved in this and at the same time provide the necessary development opportunities for others who are not in it, based on the fact that the state is in and spends a lot of money on technology production, and that we have an interest that goes beyond the business-commercial interests that lie there in order to be involved. But there are, as I said, balances that have been made, and I'm going to answer it in a proper way and give a proper account to the Storting about what's around these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2130	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2148	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2166	That's when I wish I had learned more in the gym. I had to jump up the stairs quite quickly to reach this since no one took the word in the previous case, and now I am a little breathed. Today I feel like a sort of ombudsman, a sort of missionary for the West, who has sent very clear messages in the hearing on «State guidelines for differentiated management of the coastal zone along the sea». In connection with the outcome of the consultation note, quite a number of consultation recordings have been made that have shown a significant commitment and a large area of interest, in particular from the municipalities and county councils. When you look at the region I represent, among other things. Rogaland and, as you can see, Sunnhordland in Hordaland is about. one third of all the municipalities that have spoken, just from this region. For the part of the Western world, this means a lot. That's why I'm very pleased that the Council of State for the second time in a short time comes and discusses the subject, this time with a slightly different perspective and a different approach. For us in the West, the «beach zone» is a slightly sought-after term. With the beach zone we see a sandy beach that runs along the entire Vestland coast. It's actually a coastline. And it's clear that coastline is something other than a beach zone, at least in the West. With the beach zone, we may think most of Oslofjorden. Many people in the West have experiences associated with the coast and the beach. You live there, you have a cabin there – you've had it for generations. It's not just cabins like them along the Oslo Earth, which only the richest can afford, but where they're part of the whole life base and the history of the Western world – living in the pact with nature also in the vicinity of the beach zone. It is in the light of what I am going to read the harsh criticism of the draft hearing that has come, and which I am asking the Council of State to note. Now Prime Minister Stoltenberg in Stortinget yesterday told me that you were very busy listening. One had a hearing in connection with the state budget, which unfortunately shows that one does not listen. This time, the Government has an opportunity to correct the impression. On page 2 of the consultation note sent by the Ministry of the Environment, the Government states: ‘The Ministry of the Environment therefore specifically requests that opinions on this geographical demarcation be given in the hearing.’ This interpellation is from my side no attempt at rematch, whether it be the planning and building law or whether there is a need for a regulation or a guideline. There is a cry for help from very many municipalities in the West that feel that they have just been placed in a completely wrong booth. The Ministry further writes: ‘The basis of knowledge in the coastal zone varies.’ Yes, it was almost as if the rapporteurs in the West had to say it themselves. Here the guidelines have really shown that knowledge in the department is highly diverse, sometimes very deficient. That's why we have expectations, because this is exactly what the Ministry writes in the consultation draft that you specifically ask for, and that's what you've got. For the Right, it is important to stress that we are very much in order to take care of beach areas and common areas. It is important to take care of the rights of all people – the opportunities for everyone, not just for those who have cabins, beaches for everyone, untouched nature for everyone, and that very much of the nature that people want to build out should be preserved. This is a little bit of an angle of incidence. We believe, among other things: that the objective of the Right to do so can equally be achieved with the objective of strengthening municipal autonomy, that municipalities themselves should be able to draw up regulatory plans based on local knowledge and ambitions that can significantly strengthen the perception of local knowledge, which the Ministry of its own circular writes that it obviously lacks itself. In the case of a more general debate, which we are not going to go into today, the Right wants the county council to have less power and no more power, but the matter we lost when the law was created, and we have to deal with it. We need to respect local self-government, and the Ministry of the Environment must also have respect for these guidelines. The right is also a strong supporter of private ownership. There is a strong tradition in the Right, there is a strong tradition in the West. Let the cottage owner build his fist. Let people build a dock for their boat. If the topography is too bad, they can make boat parties, get permission to build a dwelling, cabin fields. There has been a problem with the new law. I have often met municipalities that are struggling with the county. Whether it's in Rogaland or Hordaland or where it might be, there's a unison feedback from the country's local politicians, so to speak, independent of political colour, saying that the county states no because there's no overall plan. When the overall plan comes, objections are raised. It makes you bast and tied to both hands. In any case, the county has the opportunity to say no. He just says it a little bit different ways at different times. It's something the Council of State has to take over, because that's how many municipalities experience it every day. The government has been rightly accused, in my opinion, of comparing the whole of the West with the inner parts of the Oslo Earth. That's what's the whole point of my interpellation: to ask the government council and the government department to look through how to distribute the municipalities. Instead of dismissing this challenge by saying that yes, everyone knows, the government should listen, because parts of that criticism come from the government's own rapporteurs. It comes from the government's own big business representatives. The complex legislation today includes, among other things: the party leader and the State Council, and the subsequent party leader and the State Council have probably also provided the Minister for the Protection of the Environment with a few tips in the media. You have to see differences between small Tysnes in Sunnhordland, Tysvær in Rogaland, Florø in Sogn and Fjordane, Sula outside Ålesund in Møre and Romsdal and Inner Oslofjord. A lot of people react very strongly to getting these state guidelines, in exactly the same dimension, and I'll ask the Council of State to notice that when the coastal people get up in a flock, you should listen, because then there might be something wrong with the starting point that the Government has laid. The possibility of dispensations, i.e. local discretion, is reinforced by this division. Good ideas, but which are obvious errors, usually happen in connection with a municipal plan of four years. This means that municipal politicians cannot have the opportunity to rectify errors along the way. Many of these municipalities only have these plots as attractive housing alternatives. They're emigration municipalities. And when these municipalities come into a category with strong pressure in the fields, they howl because they feel that it is simply unfair. You accuse the ministry and the state not to be present when you raise objections, or are not present when you have made the borders. Therefore, there is a profitable hope that the department actually listens to what comes out during the consultation process. It's incredibly important. One of the hearings that have taken place is that instead of a municipality being entirely in one zone, it is assumed that the local government, in cooperation with the county councillors, makes a proposal for a differentiation within the municipality. Because in small Tysne municipality there is pressure right in the area where the ferry rental is located, but there are not so many other press areas in the municipality. Mostly you're concerned with the sea. And if people want to live there, you have to compete with something other than what's in Bergen, Stord and Haugesund. That's the one. I would like to be more specific: Take away the whole of Haugesund, Karmøy, Sveio, Stord, Tysnes, Bømlo, Women's Herad, Fitjar and Rennesøy, which are the most relevant municipalities in my opinion, and which should not be in category 1, the Oslofjord. But I'd like to put them in Category 2. Dear Councillor — on behalf of many: please do not let the whole of the West be compared to Inner Oslofjord. Take the time to listen. We hope the debate here will show a listening state council that will meet the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2214	The representative may apply to the ‘Dear Council of State’, but all speeches shall be made via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2217	I am pleased that Arve Kambe drove from the training studio to the staging hall – it is in line with the government’s public health policy that we are training. I am even more pleased that he has the opportunity to make a good and nuanced statement on an important matter. As far as the Right is concerned, there is clearly a clear understanding that there is no either – or, but there is a difficult balance where we are going to have the combination of municipal autonomy and national plans. Let me start by saying that the proposal for government planning guidelines for differentiated management of the beach area was sent out at the hearing of the Ministry of Environment in a letter of 29 June 2009. The background for this is the building ban in the 100-metre belt along the sea, which dates back to 1965, which has been there under changing governments, but which has now been passed and tightened into the new planning and building law, which took effect from 1 July last year. In the context of the amendment of the law, it was assumed from the standpoint of government and enlargement that government planning guidelines for a differentiated coastal zone policy were to be adopted. Before I get to the nuances, let me start by saying that it was absolutely crucial now to tighten up what has been going on over many decades in the beach zone, or along the coast of Norway. There has been an uncontrolled bit-by-bit extension – very often based on municipal exemptions instead of a plan. So we are absolutely clear that there is a necessary and correct tightening that the Government has done. That's right for two reasons. One is the need to protect the public, to use the beach zone and to give future generations the opportunity to use the beach zone. We always have to remember that the public is all of us. That's our common interest. We are all – or most of the Nordics – cabin owners and homeowners who want to protect our small part of reality, but we are also part of the public and are interested in walking, adding the boat, grilling, playing football – so we could use common areas. So it's not like there's two different human groups here. It is the same people who have both interests, and we must be protected as individuals and in common. There was an important reason to tighten in. The other important reason is that whether it is correct or not, there has been a wide spread of camaraderie and municipal discrimination in many places because so much was based on dispensations instead of a comprehensive plan. It is very harmful for both the municipality and the state of Norway if it is given the impression that the money, those with the best contacts, those who understand the system best and know where to press, get permission, while all the others – the little ones in society, let me say it like that – do not get it. So for these reasons we had to tighten in. Then I will also clarify a misunderstanding. In the interpellation, the word «prescription» is used. So it's not about a regulation on differentiated beach zone policy, but it's about guidelines. These guidelines shall help municipalities, county councils and county councillors to deal with plans and dispensations in the coastal zone. Municipalities continue to be responsible for planning and land management under the new Planning and Building Act. Municipalities must take national and important regional interests into account. Municipalities and county councils shall contribute to the work and ensure that these interests are safeguarded. The aim of the guidelines is to ensure that the municipal treatment of plans and exemptions matters is consistent with national targets for the coastal zone. Unlucky construction must be avoided. General interests such as outdoor life, the natural environment and landscape and cultural memories shall weigh heavily in relation to the development interests. Unlucky bit for bit-enhancement through dispensations is not a good strategy. Any measures in the 100 metre belt shall be allowed only in accordance with a comprehensive and long-term plan. The point here is that the municipalities should be responsible for both parts, both for dealing with individual matters in the municipality, local development interest, and they should also be responsible for safeguarding the Community interests that Stortinget wants us to take care of, and which I record that Kambe is very concerned about caring for. Some have to take care of these interests, and municipalities are responsible for contributing to them – not only as a driver of development but also as guardians of Community interests. The proposal for guidelines provides for different indications for areas where the pressure on land is high and where there is less pressure. The most stringent guidance is given for areas under high pressure. Greater space for development is provided in areas with less pressure to strengthen business development and create jobs. The division of areas with large and smaller pressures follows the municipal boundaries and the closer differentiation must be made at municipal or regional level. Let me stress that here Kambe has a clear point. It is quite clear that there are municipalities that are defined as press municipalities, which have large areas where there is no pressure for all practical purposes. There are also municipalities that are not defined as press municipalities, which have smaller areas in their municipality where the pressure is high and where it is very important to take care of the common interests. So it is not possible to draw an absolute distinction and say that some municipalities are press municipalities and others are not. These shades must appear in the municipal plans, in the regional plans, and must be taken into account in the dialogue between the municipalities and the county councillors. All experience suggests that most such cases find a local solution. There are no more than 50 cases per year coming to the Ministry of the Environment as a result of objections, and that is because local solutions are usually found. But it's not desirable to make an absolute distinction between this. We want the municipalities to be seen individually, but within this framework – you can see that in press communities there are areas where there is little pressure, and that in non-press municipalities there may be areas where there is a lot of pressure. The proposal for guidelines triggered strong commitment, on which Mr. Kambe was also involved. That's good. We have received approx. 135 Opinions on the Environment Ministry. It is true that in the hearing there were a number of municipalities that felt that they could not be compared with the municipalities of the Oslofjord region. There are 24 municipalities that believe they are misplaced by being placed in the category Press Communities. Following the proposal for guidelines, the 1993 National Policy Guidelines for Coastal and Maritime Planning in the Oslo Region will continue to apply. In addition, it was proposed that the principles contained in the Guidelines be applied mutatis mutandis to other areas of the press. This applies to the coast of East Agder and West Agder, for parts of the coast of Rogaland, Hordaland, More and Romesdal, South Trondelag and North Trondelag. None of this is new. It involves clarification of previous general leadership. Already in St.meld. No 29 for 1996–1997, regional planning and land policy, it is stated that much of the coastal zone in the Agder counties and around the cities of Rogaland and Hordaland must be planned according to the same principles as the Oslofjord region. Later, it's in Ot.prp. No 32 for 2007-2008, on a new part of the Plan and Building Act, stated that areas with expansionary pressures are the Oslofjord area and the Sørland coast and central parts of the beach zone of Rogaland, Hordaland and Trondheimsfjorden. These previous settings have been the starting point for the breakdown of municipalities in the proposal for guidelines. Then, of course, you can discuss where the boundaries should go. We're going to get back to that in the future. This is part of the assessments that must be made in the context of the further processing and processing of the guidelines. In this respect, the Ministry of the Environment will also look into whether it makes sense to apply the principles of the guidelines for the Oslo Region and the other areas of the press. I do not ignore the fact that it makes more sense with a third, where you have the Oslofjord region and other press areas – and then the areas where there is no pressure. In any case, however, it must be ensured that within municipalities it is not such that one municipality either has all areas in a press category or no areas in a press category. It is more nuanced, and it must be handled with the municipality's own plans and regional plans and in dialogue between municipalities and county councillors. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for this work. The guidelines are to be adopted by the King of State Councils, and we must therefore, of course, cooperate with other departments concerned in this regard. The Ministry of the Environment is in dialogue with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and we expect the guidelines to be implemented during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2245	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I also thank him for thinking it was a constructive interpellation, for that was the intention. It wasn't an interpellation that was supposed to turn on political coins, but it was really what I said, that today I feel like a sort of ombudsman, a missionary, from an entire region – the whole Western country in relation to screaming for help, in relation to the requests to be seen, in relation to the feedback given by the entire Western country. Solheim refers to 24 municipalities. All 24 municipalities are either in Rogaland or in Hordaland. In addition to them, there's probably someone else, but the main emphasis of them is in Rogaland and Hordaland, right at the intersection of the region I represent. State Council Solheim says that the nuances in terms of municipalities must be found in the municipal plan. I think everyone agrees on that. Their problem is that when the county councillors are to approve the municipal plans, they relate to the legislation – whether they are in Category 1 or Category 2. Had Solheim been willing to look at the nuances, this could have been solved in terms of the nuances in the municipal plan. As they are already placed in the strictest regime, they have major problems getting the municipal plan they want, as they need – but as they can also be approved. The Council of State must follow up on its coming. I was the group leader of the Right of the City Council in Haugesund before I became a staggering representative, and attest that the right-hand-driven Haugesund, in cooperation with the State Council of Solheim, buys a solid open-air area right outside the Haugesund Centre, and regulates it almost completely to open-air areas for long-term recreation. You protect it. It shows that you do it with local self-government – you actually buy it from private people, with right-hand funds in a municipality, together with the state. It shows that it's possible to get it done. But then the thank you from the Council of State at the other end – after just securing the inside of Haugesund – when developing the island community of Røvær, a small bone island with some thirty people, should not be that they come in the same category as the Oslo Earth area, with the pressure that is there. Then there are many in my municipality and region – and certainly Solheim himself – who think it can't be tricked. In addition, the outer part of Haugesund, which borders on Sveio – there are hardly any people living there – is also located in the hard-pressed area category. It's also obviously wrong. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State opens up a third, but also that at the same time a new review is being carried out with regard to the municipalities that obviously feel that they are in the wrong category, and there are quite a few of those municipalities. And when so many municipalities say this -- whether it's central party people or workers' party people -- it might be a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2256	Let me first say that I feel that I was made clear in the previous article that we are going to look at the shades of this within a framework that we want to tighten up the unimpeded expansion of the beach zone that we feel has happened, and that it has been based on a bit of bit-policy instead of a plan. Within that framework, we want to nuance by looking at the possibilities of a different division than this division. And we're open that the municipalities, no matter what category they're placed in, don't have to be viewed as if it were a unit. This is precisely why municipalities are going to develop a plan and that things are going to happen according to a plan within the municipalities, not according to the bit of the bit-and-the-dispensation regime. Then I would also say that it's right, as the interpellant says, that the vast majority of complaints come from municipalities in Hordaland. There are some in Rogaland, and a few in West Ageds and South and North Trundel lags, but the main gravity is from Hordaland. This may partly be due to the fact that Hordaland is a very multifaceted state that has both the Bergens region with a large pressure and other municipalities that contain areas where there is large and low pressure within the same municipality. But I'll probably play the ball a little bit back to Hordaland County and the local debate there. Nor do I think there is any doubt that some of the municipalities in Hordaland are among the worst – let me say it this way – where a total let that scour policy has been allowed to dominate in a way that I am sure that a large number of large sizes find unacceptable. So yes, it's more nuanced in Hordaland, but there should also be a debate in Hordaland about the extreme destruction of the beach zone that has occurred in some municipalities, is acceptable. Finally, I would like to thank you for what was said about Vibrandsøy. It's some of the really funny things I've been through as an environmental protection minister. Hardly anywhere, we have such a large open-air area that is very pristine, amazingly beautiful, but located in the middle of a city. Any ordinary swimmer – even me – can start in the center of Haugesund and swim over to Vibrandsøy, and it's a huge area. The enthusiasm of the environment when we were in this amazing area was enormous. It was fantastic fun to be there. The whole event was so environmentally friendly that for a moment I almost forgot that the municipality is right-handed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2265	As has been made clear here, the proposal for government planning guidelines has created huge waves in Hordaland. When the Stortinget dealt with the new Planning and Building Act, it was a clear majority for a strict practice in building in the 100-metre belt. But there was also a clear majority in favour of guidelines for a differentiated administration that takes account of coastal inequalities. The guidelines proposed define approximately the whole of Hordaland as a press area in line with the Oslofjord region and provide guidelines for very restrictive management. As the interpellant has been involved, it actually also in itself provokes reactions in a state where the sea and coastline have been largely both the way of life and the justification for settlement at all times. I believe it is important to ensure that all-man rights are enforced, that we do not privatise the beach zone, but rather preserve the coastline for current and later generations. I am therefore opposed to the progressive privatisation of the shoreline, as we see, by allowing too much expansion of dwellings and leisure properties in the beach zone. Short-term profit vision must not distort public access to the beach zone, now and for future generations. The ban on building in the 100-metre belt has its background in the fight for the rights of all persons. This right has not come about by itself; it has been fought in a value struggle in which the Workers' Party has always been clear to the public against private property owners. Let me also say that in Hordaland there is a political dispute in the individual municipalities about the expansion of the beach zone to be permitted or not. The working party is restrictively evenly involved in the cases in question. However, it is not that all the construction in the beach zone is a threat to the rights of all persons. Nor is it the case that it is always socially sensible to refuse development; it has to be balanced. It must be an objective that these balances are made in the municipal level work and not in individual cases and in dispensations that open up to all kinds of speculation – to which the Council of State has been involved – and that also makes it absolutely impossible to pursue a comprehensive policy in the coastal zones of the municipalities. The uprising – if we can call it that – as we see in Hordaland, is largely about defining areas of pressure. We don't like to be sidetracked with Oslofjorden. The municipalities along the Oslo soil, which are defined as a press area, have 36 inhabitants per year. covers available beach area, while the municipalities of Hordaland to be covered by the guidelines have only 4.7 inhabitants per year. deck available beach area. That's a pretty big difference. That's why it's very important that the Council of State now says so clearly that he wants to look at the rationale of applying the same principles in the Oslo Earth area as in the other press areas and talking about differentiation. Not least, in the municipalities of hordes we have large coastal areas that have quite varying environmental and availability values. And we also need development and housing. I trust that the Government will find good and balanced solutions that will allow the differentiation of coastal zone management in a way that will both protect the protection and at the same time give the protection provisions legitimacy to the population of the areas affected. It's also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2283	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is now over, and the Stortinget takes a break until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2302	From the Socialist Left Party Group, there is an application for permission from the representative of Gina Knutson Barstad from 27 February to 5 March to attend the 54th UN Women's Convention meeting in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Einar Horvei, is invited to meet from 1 March to 5 March. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2336	Hardly anything related to land management along our long-distance coastline is more controversial than the coastal zone management. And we have a press area. Inner Oslo Earth is referred to by the interpellant as an example. I'm not going to come up with concrete things like examples, but there are countless things that show that it's high time to come up with a new and forward-looking regulation and practice of her. We consider that the guidelines are so rigid and not very appropriate that they create great frustration and anger, as many people feel that the guidelines are little adapted urban conditions. The issue is no longer made clear by all the signals coming from the various government councils when they are challenged in the media. Today, we have a significant movement stream from the districts to more central ones. An important factor contributing to this is government planning guidelines that frame the districts, whether coastal or inland. Then it's strange to the right council when he gives the impression that it's the well-held ones who get their applications, while most people else don't get there. The question then becomes: Is this documentable, or is there a view of SV rhetoric, that now the rich should be taken – again? I'm just asking. What there's little access to, we all know, gets high prices and should be an argument for resolving. The so-called comparative advantages of living in the districts are eliminated by planning guidelines depriving the rural population of the possibility of using land under either nutrition or more private control. This leads to abstinence, a strong incentive to move out of the districts and creates pressure on central struts. For the Progress Party, it is decisive what local democracy wants, and what they see as important for local nutrition development and bulging. On the contrary, we consider that the decisions of the local council and the individual local council are overruled by the County Planning Department, with a background in guidelines that in the districts have little or no legitimacy. That this is a danger to the construction pattern is one thing, but that it threatens local democracy and recruitment is also an important aspect. Many people feel that reasonable local perception in too many cases is overcome by guidelines born in a caffe latte environment away from it. This suggests that local politics seems pointless and without real influence. It is now time that we gave local democracy a real and real content in planning matters and designed the guidelines so that they have the flexibility they need to benefit from in the different districts. The coastal communities in the country are now asking for appropriate and flexible design of planning guidelines and regulations that are suitable for the development and progress of the districts, without undue over-management and dictates. The Progress Party supports the coastal and rural communities of the country in this demand. I also record that the leader of the Center Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, appears to be one who fights against the beach zone protection when in the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 December 2009 he demands major changes to the beach zoneelova proposed by her own government. The question is whether we can trust the Center Party in this important district bag. It would otherwise have been tempting, in conclusion, to show the representative Kambe his willingness and flexibility when he moves quickly from training room to plenary room, exemplary and flexible. This should also be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2355	I would first like to thank the interpellant, the representative Arve Kambe, for bringing up this important topic that is now being discussed. These guidelines affect very many communities, not least in the West. Now there are many who have addressed the obvious differences that exist between the Oslo Earth and the West. It is clear that defining the West as a press area is becoming very little nuanced, which the Council of State was also in. The topography of the West, where it is usually only a few meters into the high mountains, and where you have to go far into the wide area before you get out of the hundred meters belt, is significantly different from the topography of the areas around the Oslofjorden. The right is concerned, is this with local self-government. And why is local self-government so important to us also in this matter? Indeed, local self-government is important for people in each community to feel secure that those who make decisions that affect them know what the problem is and know the areas. If the answer is negative, it's still easier to accept it if you know that those who have made a decision have local knowledge of the area and area they have. So it's easier to accept an answer -- even if it gets negative. If there's a decision maker far away, which likes to have the Oslofjord area as its starting point, and who doesn't know the conditions, it's hard to accept finding out the answers that come. The other relationship that is important for local self-government is just being local, knowing the local conditions. One has the opportunity to go on an inspection and see solutions locally that one would not have been able to see from a desk far away. In this way, you can find compromises that require localization. To have strong local self-government, we depend on having local politicians who want to get involved. The more power we take from local self-government, the harder I think it'll be to get people involved in local politics, because one experiences, whether one sits in local government or in selection, that very many decisions are taken at a very different level, far away. I think this is also about the fact that the individual should be able to have respect for a law. The individual must feel that the law cares for his or her interests, that the law takes account of local conditions, and that the law seems reasonable. With the proposal on several Western municipalities, I fear that people are losing respect for a law that they feel is far too distant from their reality – when they are defined as being part of the Oslo Earth area. I want to put myself in line with those who ask the Council of State to listen to the recordings that have been made in this consultation round. The representative Kambe had a long list of municipalities in Rogaland that he wanted in another category. I would like, among other things: add Egersund to the same list. I don't think people who feel like they're in that category that they have the same pressure as the Oslofjorden. In the end, I would like to point out a statement from the Council of State came out of the pulpit, a statement that was about avoiding camaraderie and discrimination, and that it was a widespread phenomenon. I'll allow myself to say that I think it might be a little awkward to say this about local politicians, who we have to expect to do their best, and who we have to expect to have their integrity preserved. Out of respect for local politicians, I hope that this statement will not stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2374	I don't come from any caffe latte environment in the capital. However, I am very satisfied with the tightening-up of the new Law on Planning and Building that applies to the building ban in the 100-metre belt. So here we are discussing the planning guidelines to ensure that the municipal treatment of plans and exemptions matters becomes ‘in line with national targets’ for the beach zone, as it is called. It may sound as if the state is pushing a policy on the municipalities. I think it is important to say that it is really about safeguarding the rights and interests of the majority of the municipalities, who want to keep – and would like to extend – access to the beach zone This is a sensible policy, as the Council of State said, for anyone who wants to bathe, add a boat, walk, etc. The national policy guidelines for the Oslo region came in 1993. Then there was already too much of the beach zone in the press areas. For 45 years, we've had a construction ban. Nevertheless, during this period there has been a built-in beach zone similar to a stretch from Oslo to the Polar Circle. Often we have to do with money builders, builders who can pay lawyers and run long-term processes in which municipalities neither have competence nor can afford to fight. That is why it is very good that we now get clearer instructions for processing and, not least, provisions that prevent planning from taking place through bit for bit-dispensations. The new law removes the exemptions from the construction ban, but municipalities may adopt provisions for the construction of agricultural and fishing facilities. The construction ban will apply in all plans which do not specify any other building limit. This is of course particularly important in the press areas along the south coast and in the Oslofjord area. But at the same time, the guidelines allow us to prevent other people from getting the negative development that we have had in the press areas. For the rest of the country, it's kind of the way that the guidelines come in time, preventing us from getting the development we've had in the press areas. It is given today approx. 800 exemptions per year for new buildings. In addition, approx. 1600 other permits granted on a flat basis. There may be good reasons why some permits are granted, not least to give the public access to community facilities in the coastal zone — and, of course, to facilities related to the use of the sea, such as: fishing feeding facilities. It is primarily the privatisation of access to the beach zone that is the major problem. Suffering if not so many new buildings are built in the 100-metre belt, we see that each property seizes and privatises larger areas than before. It is therefore important that the construction ban also includes changes to existing buildings, with the exception of clean façade changes, fences, artificial sandy beaches and minor off-road operations. The law gives clear limits to meeting dispensation requests, including: that exemptions — and that is very important — should not be granted if there is negative professional advice. I would like to draw up a positive instrument in addition to the limits of the 100 meter belt, namely the grants from the Directorate for Nature Management for the purchase of free space. The interpellant Kambe was also involved in this. In the right-hand municipality of Tønsberg we recently decided to purchase one in six cottage properties for demolition. The cabins are located in an area where no extension and conversion permits will be granted. It is clear that such regulation, like any other regulation, affects the value of the cabins, and it enabled the municipality, with the support of the Directorate for Nature Management, to go to the purchase and take over the cabins. These funds from the directorate are of major importance. Later in our day, an area of 400 deches is opened at the end of the world – also an example of the use of such money. SV believes that the tightening of the ability to build in the beach zone is correct. It means strengthening the public interest and protecting natural diversity, but we also understand that there is a need to differentiate, as the Government now thinks, with a differentiation between municipalities and opportunities for geographical differentiation within one municipality, if it is based in the municipal plan or regional plan. At the same time, it is important to say that there is no need to open up any further use of judgement, for the purpose of changing the laws was, of course, to reduce the use of judgement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2400	The interpellant is concerned with land use along our long-distance coast, and that's good. This is a demanding theme. It will take care of many interests, including private interests, commercial interests, public interests, the right of each of us to walk along the beaches – and not least that our descendants will also have these opportunities. This is probably also one of the reasons why the last four environmental protection ministers have all warned of the tightening of beach zone management and the construction of the 100-meter belt. So it's positive that we get a rule that can differentiate this. I allow myself to quote what the minister said in his post today: ‘The proposal for guidelines provides for different indications for areas where the pressure on the land is high and where there is less pressure. The most stringent guidance is given for areas under high pressure. Greater space for development is provided in areas with less pressure to strengthen business development and create jobs.» This I think is very positive. He goes on to say: ‘The division of areas with large and smaller pressures follows the municipal boundaries.’ It is important to note that there are also major differences within municipalities in where there is pressure and where there is no pressure. It is therefore important that changes or differentiations can also be made within the municipality boundaries. I have 20 years in politics and have therefore had many issues that go on dispensations in the beach zone. I feel that it is important that we get a common sense of reality, both those who sit in the municipalities, and those who sit in the ministry and manage it. I often have a feeling that you don't quite have the same sense of reality. There will then be a need to look at the possibilities for municipalities to differentiate. An initiative has been taken by the Council of Cooperation in Sunnhordland, where thorough work has been done on the part of municipalities to create a coastal zone strategy that opens up further development and congestion in areas that are already under construction and where strict guidance is provided for areas that are not affected. Municipal and county boundaries often pass through fjord systems and share fjords. We constantly experience that there are different interpretations and different governance, depending on which side of the fjord you are, even though they initially have the same challenges. The center party is concerned that we can take advantage of the beach zone, but we are not, however, in order for this to happen indiscriminately. Dispensations must also be made, as it is often found that long-line municipalities are small municipalities with small administrations. Large and comprehensive plans to facilitate small-scale action will be difficult. The centre party wishes to welcome completely differentiated beach zone management, but with the indications we have made regarding flexible arrangements within the municipalities, and with the possibility of a derogation, we believe this will be a good law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2430	When I'm not so privileged to meet here as an alternate, I'm so lucky to be the spokesperson in an island municipality with 667 islands, caves and happenings. So that someone chose to put this on the agenda today, I thank you so much, because there is a theme that interests me very much. Strandsona is important to us that represents municipalities facing the sea. Let me use Austevoll as an example: we have seas on all sides, we're not fixed on land, and we even have islands that are so small, that if we're going to go 100 meters up ashore, we're in conflict with the 100 meters belt on the other side. I am absolutely sure that then a design and building law, put in this city. One hasn't stayed in Hordaland, because then the law of planning and building would certainly have looked completely different. But beach sonas are important to the municipalities for many reasons. It is perhaps the foremost resource of many coastal communities to have a beach zone. The municipalities don't have well-developed cultural services, they don't have opera, they don't have cinema, but they have access to the sea, which is a comparative advantage that they can offer to their inhabitants to ensure their construction and ensure well-being. I have registered that the Council of State and others have criticized the Progress Party for not being concerned about this with the rights of all people and that part of the problem, but it is totally wrong. We in the Progress Party are also very concerned about ensuring that most people have access to the open-air area, to the Svaberg, to the amazing shield we have – that is to say, to enjoy life in the scurvy. Looking at a practical policy in Hordaland, there are two municipalities that point out specifically when it comes to securing new open-air areas through state resources. It's Os and Austevoll. But municipal politicians are busy with more than just outdoors and recreation. They're busy using the beach sona's, as I said, to secure the settlement and to make the inhabitants feel good, move to and live in a municipality. Then we are forced to use the advantage we have of being able to give them access to the beach zone, get a pier, get a nudge and get access to the sea that way. Local politicians, who know the municipalities, go in here and give priority. They don't use the nice swabbergs to the nude, they use areas that we know about Western nature, they don't know about outdoor life, they don't have a place to expand. Then it also becomes available, which it is not without being organized. I must say I was a little surprised when I heard the Council of State earlier today tell them that there are some municipalities in Hordaland who say yes to all kinds of expansion. If you go into the Internet pages of the Statistical Centre and read statistics, there are no municipalities in Hordaland that have a development in the structurally affected coastline from 1985 — when one started to calculate — and until today that suggests that one has such a policy. I'm also very surprised when I compare the Oslo municipality's figures – for from 2000 to 2008 it has been built 0.8 pst. more in the strandline affected by the building – with the number from Hordaland, which in the same period is 0.9 pst. In other words, there is no special difference between the expansion rates in Hordaland today and the expansion rates in the Municipality of Oslo today, although they have the guideline they have. In other words, I don't see the great need to introduce a new guideline for horda municipalities, when the statistics show that there has been no more expansion here than in Oslo, which already has that expansion. It also tells me that we have politicians locally in Hordaland who are busy with what I say – both by taking care of outdoor values and securing settlements to make people happy in coastal communities. Then we don't need new intrusive rules to take care of all those concerns. So we were very happy when we heard the words differentiated beach zone management. It sounds very good along the whole coast. But the surprise was great when one registered that it meant that things were going to get tougher, and not more liberally, in small district municipalities. Then we first began to wonder what was actually happening. There is a great difference between the pressure in the beach sona in the Oslo region and in the hordes of municipalities. So I hope, as many others, including the interpellant, that municipalities in Hordaland will be taken out of the list, because there is a big difference between Tysnes, Fitjar, Austevoll, etc. and the municipalities that are along the Oslofjorden and Sørlanden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2449	It'll probably be a Western dialect, but as a representative from the South. I needed to spread the debate a little. It is clear that this is a topical issue and has been addressed specifically from the West, but the issue is probably several times more widespread than that. I will also admit that it is the old rapporteur in me who responds, precisely because this is something you have felt on the body, and this has a lot of work to do. I have been rapporteur in a southern municipality with great pressure. - Yes, a lot of pressure to use the areas. We tend to say that the area between E18 and the sea will all live in, work in, have the activity services in and the recreational areas in. It's a challenge. But what one feels very strongly is that there is a great commitment from local politicians to care for, to think in the long term. Many municipalities have even had organisations that have bought up and secured land for the public in a good way. That commitment is with local politicians, and we in the Right have great faith in local politicians. We know that they are engaged in and will take care of the local environment, will take care of the public. I myself participated in launching a program where we went through the beach zone throughout the municipality to remove illegal fences and illegal measures, and got cleaned up in the beach zone. There weren't many things, there wasn't any big problem. We were also accused of letting it float freely in the beach zone. We went through the last 100 dispensations. Four were newly built, the rest were shifting windows, small changes to have better toilet conditions – such things as an adjustment for more people to thrive in and use the beach zone. National leadership must be a tool for local politicians. When there are strong warnings, I hope that the Council of State will take it along and listen to the reactions that are coming. It's mostly going on with which group you're going to be placed in. There's an agreement to take care of the beach zone, we have to underline that and have it with us. I just want to grab hold of something the Council of State said. He said that there were local solutions, because there were only 50 cases coming to the ministry. That doesn't mean that there are local solutions, that means local democracy surrenders. I could mention many things where local democracy has been in so-called mediation at the county council, and found out that there's no point in moving on with this, here there's no opening. Someone's tried it. I've been visiting with people from the department. There is no doubt that reality here is a conflict area and a struggle between parts of the county office and the local politicians. I think it's important that the Council of State takes it into account in the further work. So when it's taken up, it's based on an experience that we have, that it's not necessarily the way to make it easier for a lot of those offers. In my part of the country, it is absolutely vital that we have good offers for tourists. Many of those who come from the big press areas and will experience the good life near the sea are stopped by the same legislation that is in the largest press areas. I would like to remind you that the Council of State has a great responsibility to give signals to the county office on flexibility. What's coming, read carefully and used in one particular direction, is our experience. Therefore, it is important that the signals and guidelines are really clear about the flexibility and the ability to create good solutions locally. So I hope that it will be included when the Council of State will close this case. Finally, reference is made to the notifications received from the municipalities. I had many enquiries in the summer about the unfortunate timing of the hearing, and the deadline for delivering answers to the hearing. Quite simply to have this properly treated in the municipality because it happened in the summer. I think there are a lot more municipalities that could have been concerned about the area in which they are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2466	There is once again an important debate we have. We had a similar debate last week. Since then, the Prime Minister has been here in the Chamber, yesterday, talking very much about the importance of work, the development of jobs and the development of business, so that we have something to live on in the future. Much of this is done along the coast. I think it's very important to see what we're talking about here today, which is the coastal zone policy, also in that perspective. I know there are many entrepreneurs also along the coast who want to establish new businesses. We know that many companies depend on a slightly more liberal policy to take care of their business. So there is also an important business perspective in this. The rapporteur in the municipality of Meland – there they have set a plan for a larger hotel, and the county council has raised objections – says that it is almost impossible to develop in many of these municipalities because of the tight policy pursued. Then it is not very reassuring when the Council of State says that he believes this is necessary and proper tightening of the policy being pursued. I am also among those who respond to the Council of State designation of a policy of exemption as a camaraderie. When you have a general ban, it's often that to get some things done at all, in order for people to be able to improve what's already there, you actually have to resort to exemptions. If we are talking about a smaller extension of a cabin or something, it would be a little pointless to require a new regulatory plan. I myself have worked on this in local politics, and I see that in many of these cases about exemption, it is also about common sense. Yesterday, the Prime Minister also talked about consultation, about picking up signals coming from outside the country. In this case, there have been very clear signals from the coast. That's what we've heard here today, too. Also politicians from the government parties have been very clear in their signals from the coast and in here centrally that this is too tight. This is not the right way to go, this will suffocate both local government and much of the industrial development in the municipalities. My question to the Council of State is what you want to do with the recordings you have received. There's no point in going out and asking for input and asking for consultation if you've decided in advance what to do about it. Is it so that these recordings that are coming make an impression on the Government? Are they included in the assessments? What is perhaps the most important thing for many is: Will they be followed up? In what concrete way will the Government now follow up all the signals and recordings it has received from a whole coastal population and coastal communities – cross-political protests? Is it that this will be taken further, and that one will do something in concrete terms, so that one does not get into the situation of strangling development and local government along the coast? It would have been interesting to hear a little bit more what the council thinks about it. So a little comment on differentiation. I think that's actually what you're doing today. Municipalities draw up municipal plans which plan different types of enterprises in different types of areas. What I see a little bit, when the Council of State is talking about differentiation, is that this is to be governed by the state. Then I would like to say that there is a strong retreat for local government, if it is the government that is in Oslo, to sit and define almost in detail what are pressure areas around the coast, and what are not press areas. There will be a further restriction of local democracy and freedom. I would like to say that initially it is the municipality that plans this. The municipalities are the ones who know the local conditions best. Then there is also a need for differentiation in these plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2481	Now there's been a lot of Westerners and Southerners on the pulpit in this case, so now it's time that there's a trophy coming, I think. I can say that this affects us quite hard in Tøndelag as well. I think we're all happy that there's been a signal now about differentiated enforcement of the beach zone. That's very good. As we go further into the seams, we discover, or we learn, that there's not much differentiation. There's more than one intrusion. At least it was in the municipality I came from. We all agree that in Oslobassenget it is necessary to be very restrictive. If we had been 40 million people in this country, scattered abroad, it might have been right to be so restrictive. It's not even like that, and I think it might be a long time before we get so many in the Kingdom of Norway. With the fjords and bays along the coast all the way up to Finnmark, there is actually space for several kilometers for each individual resident, as it is today. I said that it touches me quite hard. When I arrived on 1 October, I came from work as rapporteur in the south of the Nord-Trøndelag. We fully agreed, all the politicians in the municipality, that we should be restrictive with the beach zone. We should be careful to expand just for the reason that it is normally built out only once. When it's built, it's done. In addition, we agreed to put a path along the coastline, so that the coastline could be experienced by the population. When we made land plans, however, it was almost a nightmare because it was going back and forth to the county to be approved. Not in large terms, but they came on an inspection, and it was about moving the line 2 meters here and 3 meters there. So it was a detailed management that was completely unnecessary in our opinion, and that felt uncomfortable in local democracy. We agree that there should be restrictions and rules. It's referred to the end of the world here. We all agree that it is important for the people. When you come across the country, both in the West, in Trøndelag and further north, the matter is not the same. There it is because it's a coastline, there's a few meters of land and then it's a mountain wall. That's where people live and have lived at all times. There they must be allowed to live and live on. We sometimes felt that the County Environmental Protection Department was looking at and was a little flexible, but then they were nervous and said they didn't know if they would be in it, because then they could get reprimands from the Ministry of the Environment. We thought that was a bit of a look on their behalf. So we finally hope that there might be some more flexibility in this. In the municipality I came from, we experienced that we were placed in a very restrictive zone. We felt that very uncomfortable, because when the politicians are already restrictive, and believe that this is handled, it feels like a clip around the foot to be driven from Oslo in such matters. So I hope the Minister for the Environment can take the signals here today and design a code that makes it possible to be flexible in handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2498	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. The coastal communities of the country are probably very excited about whether their protests are being heard and how the minister will follow up their hearings. This is a very important matter which most affects local democracy and local self-determination in relation to the planning and management of the coastal zone. It appears from the proposals for new guidelines that the new guidelines will be used in the planning, planning, processing of dispensations and roll-out of the municipal plan. It is clarified that existing plans which have not been implemented shall be reviewed and, if necessary, repealed if they are in contravention of the new 100 metre construction plan guidelines, i.e. retrospectively. During this work, emphasis has been placed on assessments made by the county council and the county council – and the county council is, as is well-known, the state's extended arm out in the municipality of Norway – based on their experience in dealing with building issues in the coastal zone. The limitations of the plan are thus based on a discretionary assessment and, as is well known, judgement can be used in many ways, that is all because it is interpreted. State councils were themselves involved in the issue of municipal exemptions. I don't have to say that much about it, because there are many people who have used very good examples of why it's marked – or remark about – that there's dispensation. It could be changing a window in a seahouse, it could be a molo that has fallen out – it's different little things. When it is done on the basis of a discretionary assessment, I hope that the Council of State will also take this into account in relation to the signals he gave that he would adjust the frames. Whether it was about categories, or what he meant, it wasn't that easy to understand. But I understood that he did not feel completely finished with the matter. My home municipality of Karmøy is a coastal municipality – it is one of many – where the coastline has historically been an important resource for the long-established activities of its inhabitants, which have thus developed our society. In spite of this, one cannot say that the Karmøy beachline today is built in such a way that one can say that Karmøy is in a plan category similar to the more central parts of Norway, like the Oslofjord areas. Karmøy has always reaped from what the sea gives. It is therefore important that the municipality as a planning authority facilitates the optimum conditions for activities linked to the sea. In recent years, the oil and gas industries have been built up, and this is also an important part of the activity in the municipality of Karmøy. The proposal on the new guidelines for the coastal zone will clearly reduce municipal autonomy, and if they are adopted as in the consultation proposal, it may seem that the Council of State does not trust local politicians in coastal municipalities. My hope is that the Council of State not only listens to the input and statements of the coastal communities, but also takes them seriously and complies with the statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2515	Initially, I would like to say that I think it is nice that the representative Njåstad can tell that progress party leaders in Austevoll and Os are well pleased with the red-green government's commitment to making advance arrangements for the purchase of central clearance areas in the beach zone. Beach Sona management is a topic that engages, and as a representative of the hordes, I thought it was an interesting debate. In the debate, it is important to remember that several governments before the red-green have focused on limiting the further degradation of the coastal zone. Both Børge Brende from Right and Knut Arild Hareide from the Christian People's Party send as environmental ministers letters to all coastal municipalities, county councillors and county councils on the intensification of planning and dispensation practices in the coastal zone. It is also important to bear in mind that the expansion of the 100-metre belt has in principle been strictly regulated for over 40 years. But the old beach sonalova does not prevent the increasing degradation and privatisation of coastal sonals in the press areas as intended. In the more scattered strata, it also did not function optimally, as it would prevent a desired development. It was this the red-green government quite rightly wanted to change on by new beach law. Beach zone management needs to be more differentiated. The law is now in the hands of local authorities. In Hordaland, the government's proposal for the division of municipalities into different categories has been much debated and triggered. Some municipalities have even threatened to go to court against the county if they do not have a greater right to co-determination in beach zone management. Criticism has to be taken seriously, and for Hordaland's part, it is likely that the hearings will show that more differentiated instruments are needed than the regulation provides. But I would also like to make it clear that for parts of Hordaland, especially in the press area in and around Bergen, there is a need for a strict regulation of the beach zone like the practice that is around Oslo Earth today, because we do not want the Bergen area to look like the Oslo area in the future, because there is no good heritage to give to the next generation of mountain people. In Bergen, the mapping shows that in 50 pst. of the beach son in Bergen it was expanded in 1972. In 1999, there was an expansion of 70 p.m. of the coastal zone area. Let's say that evolution, it's going to be over 90 pst. of the beach areas of Bergen be privatised within 20 years. It seemed to me to be a startling development, especially since we know that the expansion of the coastal zone in Bergen after the last survey, in 1999, has not been reduced, but on the contrary has accelerated. This shows the need for strict management of beach sonals in the press areas. In other municipalities in the state, this will of course be too strict. I believe that the Minister for the Environment will take good care of both of these challenges when drafting final regulations. But the goal in all municipalities must be to put an end to dispensation and planless expansion, which, after all, has dominated the expansion of the coastal zone over the last 40 years. Local authorities must develop plans for their own coastal zone management, and then, as far as possible, stick to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2529	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the representatives who have participated in the discussion. I feel that I have achieved some of my motivation for the interpellation. In one way, this is the last way the Storing as an organ can affect the Government, to make the changes that a united Western country is screaming for, to which the Government has until now been less responsive. My hope was therefore to have a cross-political commitment to the West, for the unfair conditions imposed by these guidelines. I feel that the Council of State is partially drifting. I also record that the Central Party has made statements from the Stortinget pulpit today, which obviously follows up its own party leader, which I therefore expect the Central Party to follow up in the Government. This is kind of going to be the litmus test, I think, if the Centre Party is able to get a pass on to municipal autonomy within the Government. If you don't get help from the civil parties to do that. So this is a challenge. Then I register that the Workers' Party has only made one post today. It is from Hordaland's representative Per Rune Henriksen, who has gone out in Bergen's Official Journal and said that these guidelines need to be amended, and that this will be good. He was also drifting today, and this has not been contradicted by other representatives from the Workers' Party. He is also a whipper for the Workers' Party, so the Stortinget has today almost laid the goal open to the Solheim Council for a good scoring. State Council Solheim pointed out that one could open up to some sort of third category. What the Western Communes and others have reacted to is not that they end up in the category where it is the word «Oslofjorden». It is not sufficient to remove the word ‘Oslofdörden’ and to obtain a new category with the same conditions as for ‘Oslofdörden’. The point is that you have to have a greater differentiation, as it actually says in the guidelines, more differentiation. This means that municipalities need to have more opportunities to do it themselves. A lot of municipalities are asking to get out of Category 1 – to call it that – and into Category 2. So you don't pick the big rematch, but instead of saying that both categories are bad, you're going to be in the least bad. That's the discussion, the debate I've wanted to go to the Council of State today, so that you actually take with you that the coast has stood up to the Government's proposals. I record that a lot of people are listening to it. So this is the chance of Solheim to show that he is doing what Prime Minister Stoltenberg says the Government is going to do, that is, listen to the input you get from the people. Now the government has not listened so much to Stortinget, but this is a fine way to repair the government's relationship with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2540	Let me start by stating why we have this debate. That's because for the first time in this area we have a government that acts, and not a government that just talks. It's completely shown here how previous governments have also said the exact same thing as what we're saying; they just haven't done anything with what could have happened. That is why we have a debate – because the red-green government is acting. Then we've introduced something new, which is obviously difficult, and there's differentiation in this area. There is no basis for treating Inner Oslofjord and Finnmarkskysten or Sogn and Fjordane in the same way. Differentiation will always be difficult. I think everyone in the room will understand that at the moment you go into differentiation, there will be borderline cases and difficulties. But we have the debate because this government has introduced something that I thought most people agreed on, differentiation, and because we act and not just talk. Then there has been a somewhat good debate, but some of the debaters must have written their posts before they heard my post, because they did not quite relate to it. Let me once again make it clear that we are opening up to look at the breakdown, these two categories, once again, to see if it is possible to introduce a third category, just to respond to some of the criticisms that we have registered, among other things. from many in Hordaland. We strongly stress that the fact that it has been divided into different categories cannot lead us to ignore the fact that in municipalities that are press municipalities, there can also be areas where there is no pressure, and that in municipalities where there is no pressure, there can be a significant pressure around a municipality centre or in other very attractive areas, for example, if you want to do so. have very few bathing opportunities – just to take an example. So the fact that you've divided into different categories, can't eliminate this. It has to be solved through local processes. In addition, let me add that there is one thing I'm against, is that you have to keep changing windows, outdoors and small trifles. That's not what this is about. What it's about are large expansions of the beach zone and a bit for bit-stealing of the beach zone from next generations and from the public, not bothering people with things that are debatable. So let me explicitly say that that's not what we're looking for after the statesmen to represent. Then the local self-government was emphasized by several. Let me say that local self-government is becoming more local now because municipalities are becoming tools both for national policies and for local interests. Municipalities shall implement these measures on a level-based basis, not on the basis of derogations, and municipalities shall seek local solutions with the county and others. I have no reason to answer whether it is a camaraderie or not in Norwegian municipalities. I've only registered up over the years a lot of claims about it. The safest way to avoid the kind of claims is that it's all done using a plan. Finally, a joyful thing in this debate: For the first time – it is possible that I have heard poorly after a while – I heard a representative from the Progress Party also speak beautifully and nicely about the rights of all people, namely Njåstad. It was a moment of joy, and I hope we can also hear more of it in the debates ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2559	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2576	Losing a person who is close is always bad and always happens too early. The pathology of a cancer patient may be extra special – tests, waiting time, excursions, and finally the best moment of one’s life for those who experience cancer gone. For others: More trials, more waiting, more downs and the heaviest moments of one’s life – the despair of those who have to accept the message that the clock will soon strike for the last time. Norway has a good health system. There is good treatment, and the government launched its own cancer strategy in 2006. Nevertheless, a disease that takes 10,000 lives every year deserves political attention. I'm going to go up this interpellation to make sure that we do what we can, and to discuss the way forward. I remember that then State Council Sylvia Brustad went out hard in the autumn of 2007 because it was a whole 55 hospitals in Norway that operated colon cancer. I agree with her. Cancer surgery must be concentrated in fewer places for quality reasons. It would be nice if the Council of State could give us an update on the progress of this work. Cancer research must have good conditions. Research, inter alia: from the Cancer Register has saved many lives for many years. In this context, I am particularly concerned about the work to develop and establish several quality records under the Kreft register, and I would appreciate it if the Council of State could give us an update there as well. Many of the major cancers that kill most people today provide good predictions according to the conditions, assuming that the cancer is discovered early. But the same cancers tend to give late and diffuse signals. Are we good enough to inform those at risk, what symptoms should they be aware of? The four major cancers in Norway are prostate, lung, colon and breast cancer. We have a comprehensive mammography program that aims to detect breast cancer in women at an early stage. That's good. But now clearly more women die of lung cancer than of breast cancer. During the last growing-up period, the representative Jan Bøhler saw the possibilities for lung screening, visible in a chronicle in the New Year's Newspaper in 2008. As a member of the Health and Care Committee at the time, I enjoyed working with him. Pulmonary cancer has the characteristic that a large proportion of patients can be defined within the risk groups, e.g. those over a specified age who have smoked for many years, who have other lung problems such as COPD, pneumonia or repeated dry cough and the like. On March 22, 2007, a publication in the New England Journal of Medicine, in which 31,000 patients from Europe, the United States, Israel, China and Japan participated in a study with spiral CT. The studies showed nearly 500 cancer cases. Pulmonary cancer generally has poor prognosis, but for these patients the prognosis was good because the disease was detected early. The message from a superior at the Rikshospitale-Radium Hospital HF was that the decision-makers should have a more liberal practice in referring patients to the X-ray of the lungs. On 3 June 2009, there was a look at the evening post.no on the possibility of mass examinations to detect colon cancer early. This is perhaps the most relevant area for a new screening program. According to the article, several other countries in Europe have introduced screening programmes. Germany has a national programme of annual tests for them over 50 years, and they also recommend intestinal puncture testing every 10 years. Austria has similar services and, in addition, a partial gastrointestinal survey every five years. The United Kingdom has a national screening programme for them between 60 and 69 years of age, with tests every two years. The article also refers to a review of the National Health Knowledge Centre commissioned by the Health Directorate, which showed that mass testing for faecal blood can reduce the mortality of colon cancer by 15 pst. It equals well over 200 lives each year. The Council of State recently launched a national programme of action in the field of prostate cancer. Prostatic cancer affects only men, but is still the most common form of cancer in Norway with more than 4000 cases each year, more diagnosis than any other cancer alone gives for women and men combined. PSA screening of men for early detection of prostate power is controversial, and there are various professional recommendations in the United States and in Europe. In the United States, over half of men over 50 years of age have been tested with PSA screening, while PSA screening is not as strongly recommended in Europe. Although PSA screening may be behind lung cancer studies and at least behind colon cancer studies in the spoons, I believe it is at least important that all men have the opportunity to take such a test, and that there is systemicity in it for those who are hereditaryly burdened, or where there is suspicion of examination. I understand that screening is a controversial tool. Screening studies may cause fear in patients. People are at risk for overdiagnosis and for people to have a cancer diagnosis that is erroneous or unnecessary – or vice versa, that screening provides false security, if it does not detect anything malignant that is actually there. Nevertheless, through mammography studies, there is a long experience of overdiagnosis, and I am not aware that there is a political disagreement that the offer should continue. The fear that many experience by being examined must be weighed up against the fear that many experience after a real diagnosis has struck them themselves or the family. The fear of investigation is passing, the sorrow of losing someone sitting forever. Moreover, none of these problems are new. Until the 1980s, buses were run around and screen surveys were offered to control the lungs against tuberculosis. According to St.meld. No 16 for 2002–03, full-scale screening programmes for breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer and cervical cancer could prevent 6 pst. of the total number of cancer deaths, which at that time meant about 600 cancer deaths per year. I think a cancer patient I know and rains like a friend, placed the burden of proof right: if screening programs can save hundreds of lives a year, one should have terrible good arguments to leave out. However, the most important point is that many have already taken CT spirals, intestinal studies or PSA screening. A screening program takes care of those who don't know about the possibilities. Fresh people are offered a health check. It implies a principle of non-discrimination. If such programmes are to be implemented, there is a significant point that society must then be given the opportunity to evaluate its effects. It means complete records with complete data. In an episode of the TV series ‘The West Wing’ President Bartlet is preparing the speech on the state of the kingdom and requires an ambitious section on curing cancer within ten years. When realism overtakes them, the section is deleted from the speech before the president goes to the pulpit. No politician can promise a cure for cancer. But as humans, we need moon landing projects that keep us going. Or as it was said in the TV episode: in 1940 our armed forces were not among the twelve most impressive in the world, but we were obviously to fight a great war. Roosevelt said the United States would produce 50,000 aircraft over the next four years. Everyone thought it was a joke. And that's it. Because it turned out that we produced 100,000 aircraft. I will end by raising another debate. What determines what should be given attention? What affects decisions and priorities? What is the impact on politicians, professionals, researchers and the pharmaceutical industry? Are diseases affecting high social status groups given greater attention than others? Are any cancers associated with shame or the stamp as self-inflicted? And in that case, is there research on these as much as on other diagnostics? Does lung cancer get the attention patients deserve, given over 2,000 deaths each year? Do people feel that talking about prostate cancer or cancer of the cervix is taboo? Do some disease groups progress over the past decades, and lack of progress within others, relate to how exciting it is to treat them, purely professionally? Is it easier to draw attention to a health offer if it consists of a product that can be sold – a vaccine or a medicine – than if there are no money interests behind it? And how do we continue the good work that has been started, to counteract social inequality even within the cancer area, to ensure that no one is lua in the hands of the health debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2622	Ensuring good cancer treatment and research is a high priority. Through the National Cancer Strategy, which came in 2006, we have facilitated a comprehensive and long-term follow-up in the field of cancer. National action programmes for the treatment of a number of cancers and the centralisation of cancer surgery are two examples of action to improve the quality of supply. The quality of services requirement is always a theme in the mission documents of regional health enterprises. In 2009, we specifically asked them to go through the units that perform surgical treatment of cancer of the oesophagus, pancreas, liver, prostate, rectum, colon, lungs and breast. Particular attention should be paid to factors relevant to the quality of treatment. This means patient volume, organisation and competence, degree of specialisation, multidisciplinary teams and competence in dealing with unforeseen situations and complications. I have received feedback that the regional health companies have undergone or are reviewing the functional distribution of cancer surgery. I follow this work carefully. In the 2010 mission paper, I have asked regional health companies to continue their work on drawing up or revising regional plans for large patient groups, among others. for the most common forms of cancer. Directions for the levelling work include, inter alia,:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. Important bottlenecks shall be identified. Relevant professional guidelines and action programmes shall be used as a basis for work. Eight action programmes have now been developed for different types of cancer and eight new ones are expected to arrive in 2010. These provide guidance on what is considered to be good practice in diagnostics and the treatment of cancer, and they will be regularly updated. Quality registers are another important tool, including: to document the treatment process for use in quality improvement and as a basis for research. To date, 19 medical quality records have gained status as national medical quality records, including two cancer quality records. The aim is to establish several such national medical quality records in key disciplines. It is the Health Directorate that recommends which national medical quality records we should have, and it is the Ministry that adopts the establishment of new registers. Currently, the report Strategy for Modernising and Coordinating Central Health Records and Medical Quality Records is being consulted. Here we propose that the registers should be organised as so-called common registers, i.e. a base register with underlying diagnostic-specific quality records. The Register of Cancer is an example of a basic register, and the Register of Prostatic Cancer is an example of an underlying quality register in the Base Register. In addition, the corresponding quality records are available, for example: colon cancer and rectal cancer, pectoris and lung cancer. We also want this model in other disciplines, for example. for cardiac and masculinity. Medical and health research is, and should be, a priority area of research policy. This is underlined, inter alia, by: in the new Research Communication Climate for Research. The Ministry of Health and Health finances research through the Norwegian Research Councils, the regional health companies, the Institute of Public Health and the research units of general medical research, to name some of the actors. The Ministry’s earmarked grant to the Norwegian Research Council is well over 250 million. kr in 2010. Of these funds, 20 million is. kr earmarked for cancer research through its own strategic initiative. Furthermore, research on cancer is funded through other programmes in the Research Council. Research projects related to cancer and mental disorders are the two main diagnostic groups in the Research Council's portfolio. Regional health businesses have been legally responsible for research and a specific responsibility for patient-oriented clinical research. In 2010 is 458 million. kr earmarked for research in regional health establishments. In addition, health enterprises finance research through their basic allocation. The research register, which provides an overview of research projects in health enterprises, shows that all regional health enterprises have research activities in the field of cancer. We have several good treatment and research environments in the field of cancer. One of these is Oslo University Hospital, Radium Hospital, Institute for Cancer Research. The new research building, which was completed in August 2009, is an important growth in this respect. The close link to the Radium Hospital ensures the contact between basic and clinical knowledge, while at the same time bringing together expertise in one place. In the cancer strategy, we have said that work needs to be done widely to provide a good knowledge base, so that we can clarify whether systematic screening of different cancers is effective. Today we have screening programs for cervical cancer and breast cancer. The cancer strategy mentions several cancers that may be relevant for screening, e.g. colon cancer and endometrial cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, pectoris and ovaries. The need to extend or establish new screening programmes is continuously assessed. Assessments are based on national experience and priorities. In addition, there are criteria set by the World Health Organisation. An important criterion is the need for a good and safe method of diagnosis, treatment must be effective and available, and the costs of the screening programme must be proportionate to the benefits of early diagnosis. We know that the number of new cancers will rise towards 2020. We also know that more and more people survive with cancer. Through the National Cancer Strategy, the Government has signalled the need to focus on prevention, better quality and competence in the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of cancer patients. The focus is also on cancer research. The government believes that medical and health research in Norway still has appropriate framework conditions, including cancer research. However, the development of population composition, changes in the picture of the disease and rapid technological development may influence the deployment of research funds in the future. Research into health and healthcare is therefore a priority area in the Communication Climate for Research, and we will continue to have cancer research high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2663	Thank you very much to the Council of State for a thorough reply. I want to start by saying that I am very pleased with what the Council of State says that one has to pay so much attention to research and work on health records and the importance of them. It is also a theme that I know from the past that the Minister of Health and Health has a strong commitment to. I want to draw one reflection on that, and that is the improvement that I think we got in the last period, in what is called the Norwegian Patient Register. There were changes that I hope will help us to discuss waiting times in the healthcare system in a more differentiated way. We often discuss waiting times as if there were one waiting time, while there are actually many different, depending on diagnosis. The reality is that if the waiting time goes down on average, it's not only positive if the price you pay for it, is that the sickest ones, who need a long time to treat, have to wait longer. And vice versa -- if the waiting time goes up, it's not only negative if it means that the sick ones get in right away. If the changes made in the Norwegian patient registry can help us to gradually develop waiting time figures within different disease groups, it will be a useful policy tool. I hope the register can contribute to that. Then I am also very pleased with what the Council of State says about good quality of services, and for that review you have asked health companies to do, focusing on what matters to the quality of treatment. Of course, the work of the regional health enterprises falls within the Ministry of Health and Welfare and within the State Council as its owner. But I think this is a topic that more representatives are interested in, and it can be a good opportunity to ask the Council of State if it can somehow be possible to report back to the Storting on this work, for example. through a budgetary document. In this way, as representatives, we could be given the opportunity to follow developments in the functional distribution of cancer surgery. Otherwise, I agree with what the Council of State says about research and the quality register, and I am very pleased with the offensive attitude of the Ministry of Health and Care. So I'd like to say in the end that I hope this will be a good debate on a topic that is very important and very serious, and that affects us all, because I think this is a patient group that might deserve even more attention than it gets, given the large numbers. Cancer is the most common cause of death among people under 80 years of age in Norway – 24 000 diagnoses and 10,000 deaths around the world. More or less everyone will at some point in life face the disease, either as a patient himself or as a relative, and it will only increase in the years to come. It's a very serious topic, so I'm glad that the Council of State meets it the way she does, with a thorough explanation and a thorough answer. And I hope there's going to be a good round here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2680	That's exactly what the interpellant said, that those affected by cancer are a large group of patients. Even though fewer die of cancer today, many die after all. It's a serious disease, so we put a lot of resources into both research and treatment when cancer occurs, and when someone is hit. Only a few words about waiting lists for cancer. Not later than one meeting this week, I have asked one of the managers of our healthcare companies about how waiting lists are about cancer. He confirms that it is not, because when you see that it is as serious a disease as cancer, you try to get patients through as fast as possible. That's reassuring, because we know that time is a very important factor in getting treatment and getting well. So for research. That's a lot of research, as I also said in my article. As far as registers are concerned, I think they are particularly important. It's interesting to see how much trust the Cancer Register really has, because I think most people see clearly that these registers give us a lot of important knowledge, knowledge that is used for new treatments. They can also follow a life course, which is very important to see how cancer develops or may reappear. So the establishment of several quality records under the large Register of Cancer will also be very important. And, as I said, I'm concerned that we're going to do it in several areas, because this is a very important base for knowledge. Of course, when it comes to feedback to Stortinget, there is nothing wrong with giving it. This is such a large and important area within the Ministry of Health and Welfare and our attention that we would like to report it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2691	Interpellant says in his speech that although Norway has a health service at the top of the world, we regularly have to debate important challenges in relation to serious public diseases. I totally agree with him on that. It is that cancer is still a major threat to people’s health. We also see an increase in the number of cancer cases associated with getting older, and it confronts us with new challenges in the years to come. When Stortinget adopted the Research Communication, Climate for Research, last June, there was one area where the entire Church, Education and Research Committee would give priority, namely cancer research. The Committee pointed out that more and more people are affected by cancer and that one third of the population will experience cancer but that six out of ten cancer patients will also survive. But what we also know is that there is a great variation between cancers, and it is therefore absolutely central that cancer is being intensively researched. We focus heavily on health-related research in Norway – also on cancer research. We have many very good research environments that are robust and participate in major international research projects. However, during the work on the Research Communication, the Medical Association expressed concern about what they call the poor recruitment of doctors for research. This, in the opinion of the Medical Association, will have major consequences for clinical research in Norway. Whether this is a cancer research issue, I do not have an overview, but it may be a factor to take into account, as clinical research is an important part of health companies' research contributions. Nearly half of all clinical studies carried out by the pharmaceutical industry in Norway are carried out in cooperation with health businesses. This is important research for all types of disease control, including the fight against cancer. During this week, there has been a focus on the possible extension of the smoking law. Many people have reacted very negatively to it, and I understand that, of course. However, as an important public health measure and cancer prevention action, the proposal is fully in place. The head of the Health Survey in the North Trøndelag, Steinar Krogstad, and his employees have been in charge of such an extension for a long time. Yes, they have gone even further and want tobacco bans in Norway. Now I understand that this is not feasible in the short term, but I have noticed that the Minister of Health will present a national strategy to bring down tobacco consumption in Norway. I welcome such a strategy. A few weeks ago, I was challenged by students at NTNU in Trondheim. It was students who interdisciplinaryly worked on the topic of public health. They welcomed a wider debate on both tobacco and alcohol policy in Norway, not least with a view to reducing the number of people who become serious cancer. I hope we can have a good debate on this part of the important public health work, although I know that this type of debate is easily becoming a debate on moralisation and prohibition policy. But if we're going to take seriously the challenges that lie ahead of us getting older, and that more and more people are developing serious cancer, then we're going to have to dry up to say what's the biggest threat to people's health today. Perhaps it is through important conversations and debates with young people that we most easily gain recognition of the danger of smoking and alcohol abuse. As a good adult, we usually have a lot to defend, and then there will be no good debate. But we cannot fail to use the knowledge we have about how to prevent disease. At the same time, of course, we should help to improve the treatment of cancer and other serious diseases. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased to participate in two large screening programs, namely the breast and cervix cancer programs. There is an important debate that the interpellant raises about this offer to be extended to other forms of cancer. The Council of State states that the launch of new programmes is to be assessed on an ongoing basis. I think it's wise to carefully evaluate the usefulness of launching new major programs, so that we don't get hurt to spend a lot of resources on measures that have no significance for the cure of cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2708	It is true, as the interpellant says, that it is important to regularly debate what can be done to improve health provision, so that cancer can be detected in the past and adequate treatment can be provided. I feel that Stortinget discusses this issue quite often. No later than 14 days ago, on the cancer day of the world, the Progress Party had an interpellation on this topic. The problem is not that we are not discussing, but rather that something else could have been done. We have a majority government, and it is those who rule, and not least the Progress Party notes when our good proposals are voted down. Since the interpellant belongs to the majority, I wondered a little bit about the background that this interpellance was raised. Could it be that the Council of State has something significantly new to tell Stortinget, and that the government parties use this form to provide information, I thought. But after hearing the Council of State's response, I wasn't quite convinced about it. The Progress Party has gone high on the ground to ensure that the area of cancer is adequately allocated to resources for both treatment, research and prevention. We know that cancer is now enthroned on top of causes of death for people under 80 years of age. Soon, one in two people in the Western world will develop cancer during life. The World Health Organization fears that in 20 years' time, twice as many people today will die of cancer. Getting hit by cancer is a great feeling for the one being hit, and for the relatives, family, and friends who are around the sick. Therefore, it is very important, in the view of the Progress Party, to pave the way forward in order to ensure that Norway maintains and further develops the competences we have related to treatment, relief and research in this area. Norway has all the prerequisites for being a central player in the fight against cancer, including in an international context. The environment built around the Radium Hospital is being promoted as one of the 20 leading cancer competences across the world. Our rich cancer register is also important to mention as a significant tool for clinical research environments. In this context, the Progress Party has repeatedly expressed its fear that the changes made to the Cancer Register may lead to a decrease in the value of the data and thus to a decrease in the value of the benefits in the research context. The interpellant brings forward the debate on cancer screening. This is an important debate that the Progress Party has repeatedly sought to put on the agenda. We know that public health services with their limited financial resources focus on healing and relieving. Testing of assumed healthy persons is very small. With the exception of breast cancer and cervical cancer screening in women, almost no cancer screening is carried out in Europe. The Progress Party has also called for consideration of the possibilities of establishing a national screening offer for, among others. colon cancer and prostate cancer, which they have had in place in England and Austria. Of course, I am familiar with some professional objections regarding screening, but at the same time I believe that we owe the Norwegian population a look at what opportunities we have. What we know is that early diagnosis can significantly reduce the negative consequences of cancer. For the time being, we're sitting a little bit on the fence here in the country. Trends in Europe are that we see more and more private offers emerging in this area in the form of private health services, cancer insurance, etc. Now we have a good health service in Norway, and there is a broad consensus that we should all have a safety network that essentially ensures that we have public health services when we need them. We have different policy solutions on what we think is the best way to organise such funding, and we have different views on the extent to which we should use competition as an instrument to ensure as much health as possible for the health crowns we jointly place on the table. But when we see the emergence of offers that clearly favor those that are best placed financially, or those that have the opportunity to take special health insurance, we politicians owe it to the people to take up the debate that can clarify what the community should and can do, and what we actually think the individual must cover. The Progress Party has said what we think should be publicly funded in this context. As we know, some measures have been taken to follow the National Cancer Strategy, which has led to cancer work in Norway more steps in the right direction. When the Progress Party has pointed to several issues that still do not work today, where patients feel about desert migration and like throwing balls between different public bodies, we and the patient groups have met with: be a little – just wait for the Cooperation Reform. Like the troll under the bridge in the «The three bushes shower», we have all been waiting – and waiting. However, I am not convinced that the treatment of the cooperation reform will lead to a particularly better outcome than that of the troll, and that is sad in that case. For cancer patients, it is well among those patients who suffer from severe poor interaction today. Their disease results in the need for both medical and other assistance from many different departments and levels. The Cancer Association has described this as the cancer journey, and they tell us that it can be tough, not to say impossible, for many to have to look at in the public jungle at the top of that one struggling with cancer. The Cancer Association describes today's varying offers as a lottery ticket. It is my aim and that of the Progress Party that this unworthiness be removed. We will show that through our priorities and choices, and we will also contribute to the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2740	Cancer is one of our most common public diseases. About 26,000 patients get cancer every year. But cancer affects many more, it affects the patients' families, friends and colleagues. Fortunately, more and more people can get effective treatment for cancer. Although the Norwegian health service is at the top of the world in many areas, it is also a fact that we are following developments in relation to comparable countries. We also see such a nuanced picture in the cancer area. Many will experience first-class treatment and help, not least because of screening programs that allow early detection and treatment of cancer. At the same time, we see that new, effective treatment is introduced late in Norway, compared with many other countries. For example, it may take up to three years after new treatment has been authorised in the Medical Products Agency, until the National Council for Quality and Priority of Health recommends that this be used in healthcare establishments. This is an unacceptable long waiting period for patients who could benefit from the new treatment. From the right, we encourage the Government to find more effective procedures to ensure that new treatments are introduced more quickly. Norway has some of the world’s leading environments in cancer research, and the Right believes that we need to develop them further. The Norwegian Cancer Register has a unique collection of data that is crucial for future-oriented health research. The right is very concerned about the protection of privacy in health research. We are therefore pleased that the Register of Cancer has been given the opportunity to correct errors in the Register of Mammography by collecting the consent of women who have participated without giving their explicit consent to this. This is essential for this unique source of knowledge on cancer to benefit women all over the world. The right eartag 6 million. kr in our alternative budget to finance the demanding work of just obtaining the consent of the women concerned. Oslo Cancer Cluster is one of the Norwegian Centres of Expertise. The programme was started by Erna Solberg when she was a municipal minister. Genome Technology magazine from New York in June 2008 Oslo Cancer Cluster of one of the 20 leading biotechnology clusters in the world in the development of new cancer treatment and diagnostics. They were also the only ones from Europe who came on this list. The 55 members of the Oslo Cancer Cluster have over 50 potential cancer drugs in clinical trials. If we exploit the potential of biotechnology, this industry can save lives and provide many people with better health and quality of life. But it requires us to prioritise research in a completely different way than what we've seen in the last four years. The government's cutting edge for research is a strategy we simply can't afford. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Government has abandoned the objectives of making research 3 pst. of GDP, of which State intervention is to be 1 pst. Right will stand firm on these ambitious goals, which are absolutely necessary for us to be equipped to meet the challenges of the future. In the Right's Alternative Budget, we proposed an increased investment in research and knowledge by NOK 1 billion. In addition, we agreed to earmark funds for quality measures in healthcare, including health records. We believe that there needs to be a lot more treatment records to monitor the quality of treatment provision. The right is also positive in evaluating new screening programs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2761	Cancer is one of the greatest diseases of our time, and predictions show an expected increase in the incidence of about 25 pst. in 2020. Interpellant therefore has an important debate. In the 2006-2009 national strategy for cancer, there is a national target and a strong governance signal that new cancers should be prevented by measures aimed at tobacco use, diet, radiation protection, physical activity and alcohol. Carcinogenicity prevention shall contribute to reducing social inequalities in health. In retrospect, more measures have also been addressed and launched to address these issues. We have a national strategy against social differences in health. We have a national strategy for tobacco prevention and are waiting for a new one. We have an action plan for better diet in the population. We have an action plan for increased physical activity. We have a high UV alert system, and we have a bet on the field. Cancer can affect everyone, and healthy lifestyle is no guarantee to avoid disease. But there's a familiar connection between health behavior and some cancers. About every third case of cancer is associated with lifestyle. That means that every third case of cancer can be prevented. Tobacco is a known risk factor for developing cancer, special lung cancer. This week experts and trade unions went out in the Evening Post and proposed drastic measures to reduce smoking and snuff use in Norway. They suggest raising the age limit, reducing accessibility, banning smoking in and out of restaurants, and in bus stops and train stations, increasing the rate of snubbing significantly, and introducing images with cancer warning on the snuff boxes. I agree with what the leader of the organization Tobacco-free said to the Evening Post, that one of the most worrying things about the evolution is that snooping is increasing, especially among young people. The EU removed the cancer warning on the snuff package in 2003. In retrospect, the World Health Organization has found that snuffing can not only cause cancer in the oral cavity, but also in the food tube and in the pancreas. I think that higher prices, increasing age, reduced availability and more smoke-free areas are important inputs that must definitely be appreciated in the government's work on the new national strategy on tobacco. Dietary retention is another factor that has been shown to be relevant for the development of several diseases, including: cancer. A healthy diet can help prevent cancer. Therefore, schemes such as free fruit and green in the school are important, not only because there are positive learning outcomes and more calm and concentration in the classroom, but most of all because this could help establish good diets and thus help prevent cancer and other diseases. We also need to change our charging policy in favour of a higher intake of healthy foods, such as fruit and vegetables. Radiation protection is a third area that is important for the prevention of cancer. It's e.g. a known relationship between UV exposure from sun and solarium and skin cancer. The incidence of emesis has increased over the past 10 years, particularly among young women and men. Femoral effusion is the second most common form of cancer among women aged 15–54 years and among men aged 30–53 years. It's scary to see how common it has become for quite young girls and boys to take solarium. Studies conducted by the Cancer Association among young people show that the number of young people aged 15 to 24 taking solarium has increased by 20 pst. in five years. 78 pst. of the girls taking solarium, began before they were 18 years old. One in four solarium users took solarium the first time before they were 15. The World Health Organisation’s cancer research institute classifies no solarium that gives off UV radiation as ‘human carcinogens’. That means the upper cancer hazard level. The Norwegian Radiation Protection Agency recommends a ban on the use of sunlight for people under 18 years of age. This type of ban has been introduced in many European countries in recent years. I mean that we in Norway, based on what we know, must support the radiation protection proposal to introduce the age limit for the use of solarium. Increased physical activity is the fourth area I want to highlight in this debate. Increased physical activity is an important prevention factor against cancer. In particular, physical activity has been shown to reduce the risk of breast cancer and gastrointestinal cancer. Creating low-threshold activity on the local level, good conditions for physical activity in leisure and in key arenas such as kindergartens, schools and workplaces are simple but important measures in cancer prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2778	It's a very important and big topic that the interpellant has addressed here today, and there's a lot that should be discussed here. I think many of the posts have been very good. We want to make a different input. I would like to address a couple of issues that I think are a very important part of this debate that concerns the use of innovation. We know that in radiation treatment of cancer we have a technology that has been used for many years. It's like shooting with hail into the body. You take a lot of tissue and you destroy a lot more than what's going to happen, that's cancer. A new technology has come into use in cancer treatment around the world called proton therapy. There are now eight to ten sites in the United States, six to seven sites in Japan. It is introduced in Kiel, Germany. It is introduced in a number of European countries and is also planned in Uppsala from 2011, where Norway will purchase some treatment sites. It is a type of radiation treatment that affects cancer much more precisely where it sits inside the body and can affect tumours that are not available for normal radiation treatment today. So it hits a lot better and it's much more effective, as the results indicate. It is estimated in reports that approx. 1 000 patients in Norway per years have a type of tumour that is not available for current radiation treatment. I think it is very important that we closely monitor the development of this type of cancer treatment. It will be very expensive in the future to bet on just buying this in Uppsala and not building up competence in Norway. It is also true that in Sweden there is an offer in Uppsala where they can treat 2,000 patients a year, while in Sweden alone the need will be around 4,000 a year. I think it is important that Norway, in areas where we see that concrete progress has actually been made around the world, works to implement the same cancer treatment tools. What I know is that in the Health Directorate, a working group has been set up to look at and prepare, at least investigated, the possibilities of using proton therapy in Norway. It's an investigation and a planning that will take years. If you start by investigating this now, the investments, at today's price level, according to the Swedish project will be up to NOK 1 billion. However, it will take three to four years, or in 2013 to 2014 if one starts to investigate this today, so that there is a project that takes time to implement, takes time to plan and takes time to look at how to adapt to cancer treatment in Norway. I would like to address this issue, because it affects me very much that we have cancers that are very lethal, for which we have little accurate treatment today. Proton therapy is e.g. in case of cancer of the pancreas, thyroid cancer and complicated cases of prostate cancer that is not affected by current radiation treatment. It could also be a better form of radiation treatment for those who today get a lot of tissue damaged with today's kind of radiation treatment. In such a big debate as this, I think it may be important to bring in concrete input in areas where there is documented progress. I think it is wrong to call this only experimental treatment, as it has been done in part in the Norwegian debate. This is a treatment that is now being implemented in many places around the world. We should also investigate in Norway how we can put this into practice and plan for it. Like I said, it's a long-term project. That's why we should get on with the investigation now. It was interesting that the representative from the Right also mentioned Oslo Cancer Cluster, which I agree with is a very important environment. Now it's probably right to point out that it's flourishing under today's government. The first start of this was probably in 2004, and it blooms like that. There are now a number of companies that have developed products that are coming into the market. It's a very positive development of this environment. What we need more is experimental treatment, i.e. the ability to test out the drug that a researcher uses in the different phases -- it's called clinical phase I, II, and III. As stated in the Innovation Communication, it is important that more capacity be built for tried and tested treatment both at the Rikshospitalet, the Radium Hospital and at Haukeland in Bergen, as the Government announced in the Innovation Communication last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2793	First, thank you to the interpellant, who will keep a very important health policy issue warm in this room. The size has played an important role in the overall response to cancer in Norway, mainly through the initiative taken in the mid-1990s for a national cancer plan, which has meant a significant increase in cancer treatment capacity, but also a much stronger focus on prevention. That's the last thing I want to comment on, because in the last few days, we've had a debate on one of the most important causes of cancer that can be addressed, namely tobacco. I think we should be pleased that in Norway we have environments, professionally anchored activistic environments, which are involved in setting the agenda for the fight against tobacco damage in this country. We have the experience over many years that the instruments that are most popular are the least effective in the fight against tobacco damage. On the other hand, if, over time, the authorities take action in several areas simultaneously in terms of prevention, in terms of information, in terms of regulation, and in terms of aid for the cessation of smoking, results are available and the results seen in the last ten years are formidable. The proportion of smokers among the adult population in Norway has decreased from about 1 %. 1/3 to a little over 20 pst. within 10 years. I want to challenge the Council of State, because I don't think this development is going to continue by itself unless the authorities keep up the pressure. Pressure must be maintained through a strong focus on the whole set of actions, both campaigns, regulations, law enforcement and good intervention programmes in the school community and at the end, but not least help to stop those who try it. And as everyone knows, it's not easy for those who depend on nicotine. I'm worried that the pressure from the authorities in recent years has eased. The Department of Tobacco in Health Directorate is, as I understand it, liquidated. It's been a long time since you've been running some real campaign on the part of the authorities, and I have to say that the measures you've put in on regulation, the last few years, have been quite puzzled. Tobacco under the counter with heavy, grueling posters saying that here you get tobacco, here you get bought snubber, is not particularly impressive, rather on the contrary. I therefore believe that the recommendations of Tobacco-free should be listened to. Personally, I believe that they go too far compared to banning smoking by outsourcing. But I believe that with regard to some of the proposals that are about to clean up in areas outside where you do not have a choice whether to stay or not, the time is ripe to take new steps in the legislation. Today's polls show that the people are well ahead of the Storting and the Government at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2805	Thank you to those who have participated in the debate, and for a debate in which we have both focused on the challenge and on the good work that has been started and which I am pleased to continue. Not least, we have been given a wide range of focus from what Dagfinn Højbrätten mentions about prevention and smoking, which now have broad support, and which has helped bring down mortality rates, to what Jan Bøhler is doing, and which also engages me, namely how we can be in the forefront of what is happening in technological development and how to apply new treatment methods. There will be important technical debates on this, but I think it is very important that we in the Grand Duchy too, as politicians, always show interest in it. With reference to the posts of the representative, Mr Gåsvatten, it is well that the opposition parties are very concerned that the government parties should participate in the interpellation debates when the opposition itself makes the interferences, and is skeptical if the government parties do not participate in them, so it is a bit of a shame if you should also be skeptical when the government parties actually promote interpellations. But I want to use the end of this post to go back to what I talked about when it was about social differences, social inequality, and also use it as an opportunity to answer why I'm putting this interpellation. In the last period, I was a member of the Health and Care Committee, and I met a lot of patient organisations at meetings and hearings. They taught me a lot, and I have a great respect for every one of them. But at the same time it's a paradox that the most serious diseases have very small patient organisations, because so many of the patients are no longer among us. More than 2,000 get lung cancer every year, but after a while there might be 200 left to talk about the lung cancer patients' case, if they're healthy enough to do that, and that's not safe at all. That's why it's important in a field and a responsibility that means so much in the lives of the individual human being, for life and death, that there are many willing voices to speak the matter to those who have no voice. And then I want to end by saying that the Council of State, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, I know so well from our common home country, Hordaland, that I know that the voice of the deaf is a concept that suits her very well. So good luck with the work that's going on, and what's going to happen next!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2814	Let me first thank you for a good debate. Although the interpellation has been raised by one of the government parties in Stortinget, I actually think cancer is such an important topic that it can be debated every 14 days. I do not feel that any of the debates that have been in Stortinget on this topic have been too much debate. It's so important. I also think it is important to get ahead of people in Norway that this is the Stortinget's concern, and people in Norway should know that we have a health care system that is designed to ensure that if any of us suffer from cancer, we have to be sure that we get the best treatment that is available. I really want to stress it, because it can be important when we have a political debate. Then I have to say that there have been many interesting articles about public health and prevention. And as with everything else, it's important to focus on prevention. I listened to many people who took up this with smoking, and of course especially to Dagfinn Højbräten, who have the credit for the smoking law. And I fully agree that when it came, you could ask yourself the question how in the world this is going to work – and then it really went very well. Now that we can see that youth smoking is halved, there is almost no single measure that will have a more positive impact on health budgets in the future than exactly that. So it's positive that it's gone in the right direction, but I also agree that we could have come further. That is why we are also working with the World Health Organisation to put in place a new strategy in the tobacco field. I also see that in Norway there are still 21 pst. smoking, while in Sweden it has fallen to 13 pst. And it's clear that we should have ambitions, not in this context to beat the Swedes, but in this context to contribute to better public health. That is important, and I would like to have a debate on it further. So there are several people who have been involved in this with screening and a new type of treatment, and it's an important area, as I said. It's the government's busy following closely, and will apply new types of screening when it's time. But we really follow the World Health Organization criteria there. And in terms of the criteria for screening, they are that the disease must be an important health problem for society – it is clear, it is most often met – the disease must be detectable by a test before it gives symptoms, there must be an early-discovered disease treatment so that early diagnosis provides better life prospects, and the health care system must also have capacity. We follow these areas, both in the case of prostate cancer and lung cancer, to see if screening is going to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2825	Then there's case no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2843	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2859	This is a second time treatment, i.e. the previous coating treatment. No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2869	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2877	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 9 February 2010 on the development of Afghanistan and its civil and military involvement in Norway be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2887	During the debate, Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to appoint a professional selection to go through various technological solutions that can provide a safe and more gentle transmission through vulnerable natural areas in the future, including the use of earth and sea cables, and to make its recommendations to the Storting before the end of 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2918	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, through its influence in the governing bodies of Statoil, asks the government to ensure that the company withdraws from oil sand operations in Canada.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2945	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan for CO2 capture and storage from the highest point emissions in industry. The action plan is presented to the Storting by the end of 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e2994	There is no voting theme in cases No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e3002	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 4 February 2010: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new legislative proposal based, inter alia, on the following main characteristics: – That the scheme should be based on the original intention of caring for the workers. – The extension of the scheme to include those not bound by a collective agreement, i.e. the extension of the State contribution to the scheme to all pensioners.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e3025	And now we have come to the Lamentations, for this is the second legal procedure. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-18.ana.ud1825e3115	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
