ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e142	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Nikolai Astrup, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Øivind Waksdal, Ingrid Heggø, Erling Sande and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The Group of the Party of Presidents of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) shall apply for a permit from the representative of Mr Karin S. Woldseth on 13 and 14 December to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Torkil Åmland, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e184	Torkild Åmland is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e192	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be interrupted, if necessary, for Stortingets Christmasunsj at 0 p.m. 13.45 p.m. and I'll see you again at 13.45 p.m. 16:00. Furthermore, the President will propose that the morning meeting continue beyond the scheduled time, at noon. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e208	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 90 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers for each batch and up to five lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e219	One of the headlines of the next year’s budget debate on energy and the environment could be ‘Global heat — local cold’. Those of us who participated in the Cancún climate summit have to state that despite a cold fall here in Norway, global warming is continuing, with a risk of great consequences for people world over and for the lack of nature. Therefore, it is – rightly – expected that Norway will actively contribute both internationally and nationally to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring natural deficiency. The budget proposal from the government for the next year leads to an additional strengthening on both of these two important areas. One of the most important tools to meet the challenges of both global heat and local cold is the increase in renewable energy investment. The government suggests that one through Enova should also spend close to 2 billion in 2011. on measures to increase the production of renewable energy and heat, to drive energy efficiency improvements within construction and industry and to contribute to new renewable technologies. Here's the bet on the ocean wind one of the copies. The Green Certificate Agreement, signed last Wednesday, will contribute to 26.4 TWh of new energy, with the aim of ensuring an equal distribution of this between Norway and Sweden. It is a particularly important energy and climate action, and I would like to congratulate the Council of State and the Government that they have put this in place. The strengthening of state-owned State power also shows the possibility, through state ownership, of building up under renewable efforts both in Norway and beyond its borders. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that the green certificates do not have to mean a weakening of State efforts in the field of renewable and energy efficiency. There is still a large unsolved potential for energy efficiency in industry and in construction, whether it is commercial or private. Research efforts on immature renewable energy technologies are becoming an increasingly important field of action in the future. Therefore, there is no need to fall asleep in laurel berries, but rather to focus heavily on what is both good climate policy and good industrial policy, as it can make significant contributions to green jobs throughout the country over the years to come. The need for more power generation and increased security of supply has become even more evident in this fall. Some parts of the country have experienced higher power prices than others, and the power grid to bind our country together is not sufficiently developed. Although governments have taken important steps to realize important transmission lines and build new energy, there are still major challenges. It is therefore important to stress that efforts to secure new transmission capacity in the West and North Norway must continue. The budget contributed funds to smoothing out the costs of people and businesses for renting on the Internet. However, there is reason to point out that these differences in costs still vary considerably, and that this must be an important priority to do something about. Energy policy will be a particularly important area for the future, both for the climate and to ensure people and businesses secure access to power at stable prices. When important posts in the later period have come into place, the time has come to look ahead. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State is now putting down a public selection to follow up with a message about the long lines of energy policy. The budget, which receives multiple figures here today, also contains an important clarification that has been requested for a long time, namely a minimum rate for service purchases that SNO has with mountain government and mountain services. Such a financial plan is important in order to ensure competence, to ensure workers in these services and to be able to carry out a decent activity. The management of the protection area will become more and more important in the future, as the focus is moving from new protection to the follow-up of existing areas. The new management board is now in the start-up phase, and it is important to ensure these real management of the areas, as the idea was, and follow-up with resources channelled through this new structure. Finally, allow me to thank my colleagues in the Committee and the Committee Secretary for the orderly and sound management of the budget – a good process in the Committee. I also need to be able to address the distributed amendment, which a joint committee is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e247	The representative Erling Sande has addressed the amendment he mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e252	I think that for a while, a bunch of investors – representatives of the business community in agriculture – were put back in the hall here and felt that they had been missing out on the certificate contribution, which they thought they would get after many years of bet. They didn't get anything. Furthermore, we have seen that Statkraft has had a process in which one has had to throw a director and get a new one, etc., before one finally has a strengthening of the capital of 14 billion. kr. Does the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee think that these are good processes to strengthen the energy work represented by the energy country of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e257	The final design of the scheme of green certificates, the transitional scheme, or the green certificate scheme, provided for all water power to be incorporated into the scheme. In connection with a discussion of transitional models, there were different points of view in this room in the various parties, but no one has the right to have all the water forces enter into a transitional arrangement. I also believe that the representative Grimstad must agree. That being said, it is right to say that there are more than those who came into the transitional arrangement, who would have expected to be in the arrangement, and I understand that. For my part, we also wanted a slightly more extensive transitional arrangement, for which we did not have the full impact. That's the policy, one doesn't always get 100 pst. review of your views. What's important to highlight now is that we've finally set up a green certificate scheme, which will mean an amazing amount for the production of renewable clean energy in our country in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e262	The representative Sande mentions increasing investment in renewable energy as a bet area, both for itself and for the Centre Party. He also referred to this Green Certificate Agreement which is now in place. We're excited about what it contains, and not least what is the difference from the last draft agreement. Otherwise, there is a breach of promise about the transitional arrangements for green certificates that are still hanging in the air, and that one had hoped that the Senterpartet and Erling Sande could have done more to fix it again. Right wants to facilitate the small power industry. That's why we want to raise the base rate entry point from 5 to 10 MW. The question to the representative Sande is: why does the centre party not support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e269	Let me first make a little visit to the representative Lødemel, who has repeatedly highlighted the need for renewable energy building schemes. That's important, and that's right. Then the representative Lødemeel and I come from the same constituency, and there's an undisputed fact that despite the fact that we're now getting a green certificate scheme, it's hardly going to trigger a single project in our state in the near future, simply because we're short of line capacity to take that stream out. It should be a wake-up call for a representative who is running an entire election campaign on the resistance to that line capacity. Now, luckily, progress seems to be successful, and we're getting a new Ørskog-Fardal line in place. It will be important, primarily for security of supply, but also for ensuring the production of new renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e274	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have been united in many things. We have a similar ideology at the bottom: we want to build society from below. Unfortunately, the government's aim to halve the degradation of food soil by 2010 is to drain into the sand. Here in Stortinget we are still waiting for a government proposal to introduce a shelter into the law. The Ministry of the Environment's opinion on the bill on shelter argues that food soil does not require the same protection as cultural memories, outdoor areas and natural diversity. This is a matter for which the Chairman of the Committee, of the Centre Party, is responsible. My question is: Does the representative Sande agree with the hearing opinion of the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e283	The question of food care is a very important question. The center part is very busy with it. It is worrying that despite the fact that we have legally highlighted the importance of taking care of the food soil, we see that the food soil is being built down at a high rate. The government has taken steps to respond to this, including: place a soil protection system heavier in the event of major technical interventions such as: transport project. There have been important steps to take to prevent the degradation of food soil, which is happening at a great pace. So I think we have to admit that we haven't come far enough to stop the degradation of food soil. I also believe that, on the part of the government party, we must be willing to discuss both the concrete proposal taken by the representative, Mr Hemdal, and other proposals to prevent the degradation of food soil at the pace we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e292	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e296	Several members of the Committee have just returned from the Cancún climate summit. It was a meeting we had very low expectations for, but that mouthed out in an agreement that is not going to solve the climate problem, but that gave us back the belief that the UN system can deliver. It needed the world, and now it's important that the emissions are delivered. Norway provides internationally important contributions through rainforest management and CCS. At the same time, we will deliver national emission reductions in line with the climate agreement. The climate message will come next year as a direct follow-up to the enormous work done through Climate Change, and that is good. But I am particularly pleased that a few days ago it was announced that we have come a considerable step closer to one of the most important points of the climate agreement, namely green certificates. A total of 26.4 TWh new renewable energy is added in Norway and Sweden. There is a major step forward for the renewable initiative in Norway. It will significantly strengthen the power situation in Norway and is also a very good industrial policy. There are great opportunities for the supplier industry in this. The setting presented here continues the government's strong commitment to renewable energy, the development of the petroleum sector, the development of network connections and energy efficiency. Many important clarifications about future energy policies are now being made, with green certificates, with the Renewable Directive, the Marine Winds Act and large and important network deployments. I therefore believe it is right and important that the government now does down a public sample to look at the power balance in Norway, the relationship between exports and imports, foreign exchange etc. in the long term – 20–30–40 years in advance. There's a debate that this nation needs, and we're going to take it. There are many major and important environmental challenges. Of all these, the government chooses to focus on conservation of natural diversity and to strengthen environmental efforts in the northern region of this budget. I myself would like to mention in particular the addition that has been made to open-air life through the treatment in Stortinget. It's an area that deserves a lot of attention in the years that are coming, because the gains from the funds that we give to this are so huge. This winter, as last year, has so far been marked by much discussion about the high power prices we have seen in Norway over the last few weeks. In particular, there has been a focus on power prices in central Norway, which over time has had a higher electricity price than the rest of the country. The power of the East and South Western countries is shut down within a lack of transfer capacity northwards, which has led to a lower price here – not only than in central Norway, but in the rest of the Nordic market. We had a special situation in the power sector last year. We also have this year, with a very dry harvest and abnormally low temperatures. So far this year we have used more power in Norway than we have produced. At the same time, we're stronger than last year, and it's due to a number of relationships. Nuclear power is much more produced in Sweden than at the same time last year. Two new power areas were established in Norway during the winter 2009–2010. It allows for specific measures and specific information to the market within each electricity spot area as appropriate. Before Easter this year, Svenska Kraftnet carried out the final work on the Nea–Järpstrom line between Mid-Norway and Sweden. That action has been taken to significantly improve the power situation and transmission capacity into the area. Then, in addition to network investments, Statnet has put in place measures to secure the power supply in exposed areas before new lines are in place – energy options in consumption, objections to the linking of new consumption and increased preparedness to correct transmission system errors. There is no quick fix on the situation in the power sector. Throughout Norway, not just in central Norway, the solution to the challenges we see is that we produce more electricity and build more power lines. The budget presented here maintains and strengthens that development. All the parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, have come together to say that solving the climate challenge is one of the most important things we face. We have agreed on a number of measures to reduce our emissions. This means that the parties at Stortinget have said that gas power without purification and other fossil energies does not have a place in the future Norwegian energy system. The government has announced that it will come back to Stortinget with a case about Mongstad, and that gives us the opportunity to take the big Mongstad debate. Mongstad has become more expensive and more expensive. We are now in the planning phase of the project. We discuss the bill on the project when the financing decision comes to Stortinget. In addition, as the Storting is aware, questions have been raised about the health risks associated with the use of amines. But I'm convinced that here we need to exercise patience, because the world is not going to achieve the 2 degree goal without the bridge CCS represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e322	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e325	The cold winter has led to a sharp increase in electricity prices in central Norway. The pressure on the government to open up gas power stations is great. LO-linked Industry Energy has sent a letter to Environment Minister Erik Solheim, and I shall quote what the Labour Party leader, Trond Seth, has said about this: «I would say it so strongly that Norwegian energy policy and the attitude towards gas are a religious manifesto. Nothing else. You relate to idealism and a world that doesn't exist. We've set ourselves up so that we can't use our own resources ourselves. [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘Unsustainable, immoral, a fisefine symbolic policy.’ Former county rapporteur in More and Romesdal, now state politician, Jon Sverre Aasen says: we have to send the gas abroad. Does the Workers' Party agree with the LO and the Workers' Party's state politicians that a gas power plant is the solution to the power crisis in Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e342	Norwegian gas policy has been established in Soria Moria II. It says that those who had the concession will keep it, cf. Forest, which has just renewed its concession, but it shall not be opened for new gas power without cleaning. Then in my article I have explained what we are doing to meet the situation in Middle Norway. What has been the answer of the Progress Party so far is to reduce the electricity charge by 1 cent, which will mean a monthly savings for an average family in Middle Norway of 30 kroner. When the Progress Party was confronted with it, they said, "You're going to measure us in the budget." Then came the budget. Now the Progress Party answers that we should measure them on the programme. It's not credible. The second answer from the Progress Party is to activate the mobile gas power plants. So they produce at such a high cost that it'll have minimal effect on price and put us in a really serious situation if there's a real danger that we'll go in black. That, I believe, is an irresponsible attitude towards the use of the emergency power units that the mobile gas power plants are actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e351	The right is committed to ensuring the basis of the welfare country by strengthening jobs, industry and value creation. Petroleum industry is the country’s most important industry and contributes large amounts. The positive drivers of this industry, I would say, are down-prioritized by the Workers' Party and the government through cuts in means of petroleum research, through cuts in funds for the internationalization of the supplier industry, and through only an increase in the wage and price growth of a company like Petoro. My question to the representative Marthinsen is: what will the Workers' Party do to enable the industry, and all those working within this cluster, to have confidence that the Workers' Party actually wants to grow and develop the petroleum industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e358	The working party has a long and proud history of ensuring the framework conditions for the Norwegian petroleum industry and stimulating research and development in that sector. So I would say that there are not only direct appropriations over OED's budget that provide the incentive to research on petroleum, it's an entire package, among other things. the tax rates and concession terms, which facilitate it. A few years ago, the Right also signed the climate agreement, where the balance between petroleum research and climate research is a central issue. This government has tripled research into renewable energy in the last three years, and that is a priority that I have no problems with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e365	The representative, Mr Marthinsen, said in his post: we are to deliver «emissions cut in line with the climate agreement». It's a statement that I'm very pleased with. But when I read that the staging representative of the Workers' Party Else-May Botten, who is also the leader of the Møre bench, is calling for us to have a gas power station on Fräna without CO2 cleaning from day one, I become somewhat uncertain. I want to quote what Else-May Botten said to ANB: «The road must be constructed while we are walking. It must be allowed to be impatient.’ If this is the government's policy, it will be the same procedure that has been chosen on Mongstad and Kårstø. We may not have seen this way as we drive and walk it, but my question is whether the representative Marthinsen agrees with his party trap from More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e380	As I said in my previous reply, the government's gas power policy lies in Soria Moria II. It has been established that no concessions shall be granted to new gas power plants without day-to-day cleaning requirements. It's solid. Then I would like to say that we have now invested considerable money on CCS both on Kårstø and on Mongstad. There is no achievement associated with the full-scale cleaning of one of these sites being realized first – Mongstad is a very complicated project – so at least from my side it will be very welcome if Industrikraft Møre manages to realize his project with cleaning from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e390	Petroleum industry is an important background to our prosperity, and it is a driver of food and technology development. It is important that this industry is stimulated by further efforts rather than advocating a gradual phasing-out of it, as some parties call for. The industry must be given access again to attractive areas, and if we are to develop the industry as a nation, we must look for the resources where we believe they are to be found. Today's government must stop boasting about the area they occupy at the concession rounds and concentrate on the quality of the area. No new area is declared for oil industry in 15 years. There are few, if any, oil companies that find the government's work with Jan Mayen particularly interesting. On the other hand, there are several areas that are considered very interesting, but there the government does move very slowly. The Progress Party will have a rapid impact assessment of the areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål, with a clear intention that we would like to open up to business there under strict environmental requirements. So we want a rapid advance for possible petroleum industry in the new areas of the Barents Sea. I am concerned that the SV in the persuasion debate underlined that such a bet is far ahead of time. I hope the oil and energy minister can give a more positive signal than this. So some words about the kerosene message. It is important that the government does not delay the submission of a petroleum message further. Six years in a political vacuum is enough. The Minister of Oil and Energy must again take the lead, rather than leaving the Ministry of Environmental Protection premiscuous and making a big deal about petroleum policy, as the management plans really are. We must remember that in several debates today's Minister for the Environment has referred to the management plans as 'protective plans'. It says everything about the intentions of the subject with the plans. So for petroleum exploration: the steam selection report was uplifting reading for those of us who want to realize the petroleum resources on Norwegian base. A total of 7 000 billion. We can look forward to additional gross income if good measures are put in place to increase the extraction rate on the Norwegian base. We must be eager to seize such a possibility. We must be open to all possible measures that can stimulate the industry to take additional steps in its fields. We should consider providing financial incentives for drilling more wells and using new technologies. In addition, the State should assume greater responsibility for the development of new technologies. The state takes the brunt of the value creation on the Norwegian pedestal. At that time, the state also has a responsibility to contribute more to technological development. Unfortunately, the government's commitment to petroleum-related research has been just as poor as the rest of the oil and energy policy. But after five years of red-green rule, it's clear that this isn't a bet area, despite the big economic front. The bulk of progress will ensure more stable financing of petroleum-related research by establishing a petroleum research fund of 10 billion. kr. It will also strengthen the role of Petoro in the Norwegian petroleum industry. The company has been in existence for almost ten years. During those years, the Norwegian oil industry has changed significantly. One has gone from two competing Norwegian companies to one dominant. It has affected many areas of activity, but the political approaches of the government do not reflect this at all. We need to make sure that Petoro has the resources to manage the country's direct ownership of the oil fields in a better way than today. In the Heidrun field, we are in danger of losing oil deposits for nearly 50 billion. kr due to a lack of drilling of time-critical wells. That alone should provide the basis for a debate on the situation on the socket and whether or not Petoro should have the resources to be a more offensive party to the fields where they are involved. Norway is an energy nation with resources, a nation also called the IEA as an important contributor to greenhouse gas reduction. Gas is a key factor – called multiple – if it replaces coal power. Also replacing the low-efficiency gas turbines is the good option that the Progress Party wants to move forward. Industrial power Møre i Fränna near the Worm Lange plant in Nyhavna is a good example. One here could replace the imports of coal power and also allow the electrification of installations on the base. This is an example of good, climate-friendly measures that will benefit the country and region, a region that is struggling with significant power shortages and that pays record high energy prices. Nevertheless, choose the red-green government to sit with the hands of the prisoner, hoping that the market will settle, a government consisting of partners like SV and the Center Party, which believes that the market forces are a udder and fy, fy. I guess this time it fits anyway. Debates and arguments seem to be of little trust. Then I will say a few words about predatory management and grazing, which this year too has had major challenges with significant losses. Many have given up keeping sheep, and many are about to give up because of the large loss of grazing animals. The municipalities of Rindal, Surnadal and Sunndal in More and Romesdal have one of the best mountain pastures in the country, but because of the management of yours, or rather lack of management, it goes against liquidation. In festivities one hears about cultural landscapes and growing. It's going to be with the numbers, in practice it's going to be little or nothing. Instead, unnecessary problems are created for the harvesting of predators. One example is your booth, which the directorate requires supervision twice a day. Also when the industry asked for permission to use electronic monitoring, they received a refusal. Modern technology is obviously not good enough! Another example is too high a threshold to take out predator-free pests. Galventispa is such an example, where millions of dollars went by to take care of a so-called valuable genetic growth of the wolf population, plus a large number of grazing animals, before being removed from the area. The current parliamentary leader in SV, Bård Vegar Solhjell, hails much of the people in predatory areas when he told Namdalsaviese that the government has led a tough line to bring up predators. Yes, the government and SV have been closed with their so-called tough line, closed so well that 3,000 sheep farmers and herd owners in Norway are hit hard by predatory losses. Many of these farmers are clear that it will lead to gardens without animals and then to deportation. The government's response is to increase the budget for prey, but at the same time to reduce the amount of damage prevention measures. This is completely meaningless and explains why actions such as ‘Let the towns live, Jens!’ are important. The concentration of predators has become so high in some districts that it threatens the quality of life of the inhabitants, as well as the large health survey in the Nord-Trøndelag, which documents this. The batch of progress is fully clear on the premise of an acceptable predatory settlement: stock assessment including border animals population where actual numbers are recorded, not juvenile setting as the basis of predatory pressure must decrease significantly through lower target numbers of reintroduction among the southern sams must be guaranteed lower thresholds to take out pests and last, but not least; dog must be included in the navel distribution paragraph These are the clear premises that the Progress Party will be able to participate in a conciliation. The preservation and strengthening of wild fish stocks in the country is also a priority task for the Progress Party. There is reason to point out that acidification is still causing fish deaths in some watercourses. So the progress party wants to allow 10 million. kr more for liming in its alternative budget. The party of progress is pleased that the government in this year's budget strengthens the fight against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris, but still does not think it is satisfactory activity to fight gyro. Therefore, the Progress Party increases the rise by 10 million. kr. Knowledge of the conditions affecting the salmon in rivers and seas means much to wild-tail management. The party to progress is also aware of the genetic bank’s status in order to preserve threatened wild breeds in individual watercourses for future generations. Overall, the Progress Party is increasing the budget by 30 million. kr in order to strengthen the living conditions and future of the wild species. 2010 is pointed out by the UN as an international year for biological deficiency. In this context, it is worth noting that one of the UN's negotiations on biological deficiency in Japan in 2010 agreed to protect 17 pst. of the land area. Norway is very close to this goal, then 15.7 pst. Already protected. Therefore, the Progress Party stresses that the focus must now be on preserving the areas already protected, rather than protecting new areas. Many of the protected areas will lose their distinctive character if they do not have the necessary follow-up, a characteristic that in its time just led to the protection status. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the impure bottom sediment, which we have several places along the coast. In this context, it is worth noting that the project by Fischerstrand Verft in More and Romsdal, in cooperation with several other public actors, has been carried out in 2010. By covering the bottom sediment with a mixture of carbon and calcium - calcium is an excess product in industrial production - removes a problem of harmful toxins that are broken down under this cover over time. The experiment has proved to be very promising. The alternative, as we know today, is the removal of toxic bottom sediment, with large emissions through ejaculation during the process, for example. With boys. The fact that the project for Fiskestrand Verft has also proved to be economically beneficial is an advantage that speaks for the use of this technique. Finally, I would like to raise my proposals to the Progress Party and the proposals to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e449	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e455	The representative Grimstad spoke in his post about stability and predictability. At the same time, we note that the lot itself creates considerable uncertainty about important tools for the petroleum industry and for the environment. During the examination of the 2010 budget, the party proposed a large cut in the allocation to the Petroleum Control Authority, which would in practice mean the closure of the entire oversight. In the course of the year's budgetary procedure, the Progress Party fully opposes and proposes a significant increase in relation to the government's proposals. My question is: what kind of predictability is this for an important industry and for the environment? Is the budgeting of the Progress Party by means of the approach? What's the reason for such a big change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e462	We see that the petroleum industry is particularly important for the coast. We see that along the whole coast, especially in the state I represent, More and Romesdal, it is a maritime cluster that has largely had developmental possibilities within this industry and has benefited them well – many thousands of jobs. In More and Romesdal, the petroleum industry represents more than 20 000 jobs. The biggest challenge precisely for the industry that was asked about here is just foresight, and foresight in new areas, and that one can drill in new areas. We know that Kårstø today has free capacity. When we know that it takes 10 to 15 years from a finding to be driven, we get a clear signal that this government has not followed up the industry in such a way that it secures the jobs directly within petroleum work or indirectly in that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e469	The tradition believes the Progress Party has money for most of the budgetary work. However, one of the areas they have chosen not to prioritise is support for NVE, for concession treatment for small-scale power. The reason for this is: ‘A general efficiency improvement, as well as the delegation of applications for micro, mini and small-scale items to local democracy, will release funds.’;» The idea of a strengthened local democracy is in and on its own very good, but when the Progress Party does not follow this by transferring the funds to the municipalities, my question is as follows: Should this be treated as ordinary construction projects in the municipalities, or should one have the same treatment as one has today attached to small power plants? How, then, should municipalities acquire resources and competences for such work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e479	When we look at these issues and the energy shortage that we have in a country where it rains 300 days a year – it is claimed – and we have large resources available, however, the processing time of applications for support for small-scale power plants in the public sector is five to six years. The red-green government, and especially the party that Sande represents, should know how important it is for these actors to get through quickly to get to this production. We all know that alternatives are pre-eminent energy. I'm surprised that the Center Party has not had a greater impact on these matters, which are just small power plants. The municipalities know their vicinity and will be able to do much more through and give a yes where it makes sense to install small power plants, contrary to what we see the sitting government doing, which has been able to red tape this to the point that it is hopeless.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e486	One is tempted to replicate that when the Progress Party is going to demonstrate action, they move from one bureaucracy to another. Child protection should eliminate bureaucracy by moving from the state to the municipal sector. In the care of the elderly, red tape is to be removed by moving from the municipal to the state sector. We have the same round in terms of force. My question, however, is quite different. We have just returned from a successful climate summit in Mexico, which fortunately ended with an agreement. In this context, it is worth noting and being glad that the representative Arne Sortevik of the Progress Party did not get his will, who has previously gone out and said that he was hoping for a breakdown in the international climate negotiations. The Progress Party was represented with two representatives in this year's negotiations. We have received very unclear answers from the party in the past, so I wonder if a week's stay with climate negotiations can give us a clearer answer: Does the Progress Party today recognise that man-made climate change is a problem with which we have something to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e493	The progress party is engrossed by the precautionary principle – a principle that we use in all contexts. When it comes to the question of the change in hold, we've also recorded that the Socialist Left Party from that time before they got into position, at the time after they got into position, has had a dramatic change, which means that many people don't recognize them. So there we might have a track to go after, if one were to follow the wishes of the representative Serigstad Valen. But when it comes to pollution, we see that there are many good measures. There are several good measures in central Norway. One could have seen gas power plants that would replace the imports of coal power and in other words have taken up the problems already today, rather than saying that no, gas power plants will not be started if there is no cleaning. In other words, one is not willing to initiate action today until one has the ideological platform in place. It's not good, cork for the climate or for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e502	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e505	I would first like to pay tribute to Mr Solheim, Minister for the Environment and Development, for the efforts of Norway during the climate negotiations in Cancún. It is positive that the negotiations now appear to be on the right track. Norway is an energy storm power, among other things. as a result of high petroleum production, and we have an additional responsibility for being an active contributor and a driver to find solutions to the climate challenge. To the right, it is important to secure the country's jobs, industry and value creation. This is the basis for the well-being that we all want to support. However, we have some long-term challenges in terms of the balance of income and expenditure. Around 2020, government expenditure is expected to exceed the country’s revenue due, inter alia, to: lower oil production and an increased number of older people. Norway is a major gas producer, but gas prices are uncertain in the future, and we experience negative results for exploration drilling and expectation of downgrading gas reserves. It would be reasonable to expect the 2011 government budget to address these challenges, inter alia. by providing active support for growth in the sector which is the most important for Norway and which generates the largest income in the country. The allocation of new promising areas is important, and from the Right, we call for an impact assessment of the Lofoten and the Western Sea regions and believe that exploitation of these areas will strengthen both local communities and the northern part of the country, in addition to having a major national significance in terms of jobs, value creation and further development of the petroleum cluster. However, it is striking how the government in its proposal fails to strengthen the items that are positive drivers in order to stimulate increased future revenues in the petroleum industry. I am thinking of the post for petroleum research, the measures for increased internationalisation and, last but not least, a real strengthening of Petoro AS. All these items have been reinforced by the draft budget of the Right. Right-wing petroleum research, including: PETROMAKS and Demo 2000, with 70 million. NOK, and we reaffirm a level of ambition and a measure of 600 million. kr for this purpose. Internationalisation of our supplier industry is important to ensure that the industry has more legs than the activity on its Norwegian base. In fact, the supplier industry of the petroleum industry is now the second largest export industry in the country in terms of value. This good development needs to be further stimulated, and we believe from the Right that the government is going in the wrong direction by reducing aid to, among other things. INTSOK and Petrad. These budgets are strengthened by the right. The Åm sample estimated the gross value of increased extraction rate to 70 pst. in existing fields on Norwegian base for a total of 7000 billion. kr. Right-wing thinks it's important that we be able to extract as much of this potential as possible. In this way, funds for research and development are an important factor. Furthermore, Petoro has a key function. Petoro manages the state's holdings on the base and is therefore represented in many licences. The right considers that Petoro needs to be significantly strengthened in order both to keep focus on increased extraction rates and to help ensure that diversity and competition on the base are not weakened by Statoil’s dominant position. Right-wing forces again Petoro's budget with close to 20 pst. in addition to the Government's proposals. I am pleased that the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are with us in the proposal to get an assessment of letting Petoro be financed through the cash flow from the petroleum business and not over the state budget, as today. It will be a crucial factor in strengthening the company so that they can meet the challenges of strengthened organisation and competence to help unlock the potential of Norwegian pedestals. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Oil and Energy on the fact that he finally announces a broad review of the energy and power balance, and would like to welcome him. We have requested this from the Right on several occasions and through several representative proposals, either alone or with the other opposition parties. The proposal is in line with the proposal we submitted a month ago, calling for a global energy policy report where we see both energy, the climate challenge and industrial development in a wider context. The only thing I can regret is that this one is coming late, and that the sample to work on these questions will not be finished until winter 2012. This case is over-mature. I take up the proposal in the position that the Right and Christian People's Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e528	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e533	I have noticed that the Right has been out in the media and ordered to move the Mongstad project. It is, as the representative Meling is probably aware, that the cleaning of Mongstad is not within the reference track and will not count as part of the 15-17 million. tonnes that have contributed to the commitment of the Right to cut through the climate agreement. So the Right has promoted a representative proposal in this room that opens up new gas power plants without cleaning requirements. That means that the Right needs to clean up a lot more millions of tons of CO2 to meet the climate deal than we need to. What's the Right Plan for that to happen? Or is it now that the Right is on glide flight away from the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e543	As a responsible party, the right is in favour of the agreements we enter into. This also applies to the climate agreement. We are committed to being active and finding solutions to the climate challenge. Being able to clean carbon is one of the things that we put behind. It's not like we're not getting behind the bet on Mongstad. What we've said is that we would probably be able to do it much cheaper and much faster by moving the cleaning project out of Mongstad. This does not prevent cleaning in Mongstad at a later stage, when the cleaning technology is commercially available. We are committed to producing a clean-up technology that is not only a good one for rich countries, but can also be used by poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e551	After all, the glide flight representative Marthinsen described in the previous line is mostly present in many areas of the Right Environmental Policy. The policy of environmental protection minister Børge Brende led with regard to predators, coastal zones and protection, and the positions expressed by the Right in this Chamber show that this is a very large gap. The same applies to climate. I have to follow up the question from Marianne Marthinsen, because I don't feel that we got a satisfactory answer. Storting representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has previously called for the construction of new gas power plants without cleaning from day one, and the Right has made it a sport to mention the requirement of CO2 cleaning from day one as something strange, somewhat negative. How has the Right intend to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions rapidly enough and to a large extent to avoid day-on-day clean-up requirements in the construction of new gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e561	The right is concerned about government progress in climate policy. We are talking about a government that, almost a year ago, had 160 measures in the field of Climate Change. Several of these were actually socio-economically profitable, and we have suggested, together with other opposition parties, that at least they can be started. This government announced a one-year postponement of a climate announcement. We are basically disappointed with the government's lack of activity at home in terms of the climate challenge. The right is ready, to fulfil its obligations as part of the climate agreement, and we are solution-oriented in order to obtain measures that can also provide cutbacks at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e568	I just have to conclude that the two who had a line before me have not received anything that is close to an answer to their questions, but I want to put something different in the hope of getting a clear answer from the Right. Right-wing verify that one is at the moment of the climate agreement and is clear about it. One has also shown some of the suggestions you have in the configuration. It applies to tax relief and a strengthening of the urban economy so that we can get rid of it. One of the measures that they highlight as a solution to the climate problem is to remove the line for compensation to the fuel price districts. My question to the Right about this “gift package” for businesses and district individuals is the following: Does the representative Meling believe that this will lead to less driving in the districts? That's question one. Two questions are: Can we still assume that this is the way the Right is going to design climate policy in the future, that the districts are going to pay the cost of reducing climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e575	I find it strange that one representative after another from the government parties asks questions as to whether the Right is in line with the climate agreement. Of course we do. However, we asked the same question one year ago when the biodiesel tax was introduced, as we perceived as a breach of the climate agreement. But I hope that the government also stands by the climate agreement. It does, of course, right as a responsible party. We want to launch a series of measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and we look forward to the government finally, perhaps next year, coming up with a big deal on climate change. In this context, of course, the Right will be an active contributor to finding solutions that provide real cut-offs at home for climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e583	Following the climate summit in Cancún, the international climate change is on the rails again, and the basis is for a binding agreement to ensure the necessary climate cuts internationally, while ensuring that climate policies ensure redistribution between the world's rich and poor countries. One of the most important things we can do to maintain this trust between the rich and the poor in the world is to go ahead and show that we are willing to pay to implement measures. This is why Norway’s forest activity is, for example, so important, in fact one of the most important contributions to greenhouse gas emission cuts today, and not least it is important that we cut greenhouse gas emissions at home. Today, we have a good overview of the cuts we can do here at home, what it will cost, and now it is up to the government to design a climate announcement that provides the basis for a broad climate settlement in the Great Britain, which hopefully gives us predictability in climate policy, if it were to happen that the Right Party and the Advance Party would once form government together. As the Progress Party then claims, it will not be about self-pipping to seek as much domestic cut as possible. On the contrary, it is an important positioning for the future. There was no lack of actors involved in the introduction of the CO2 tax, either, but today this tax and other so-called so-called ‘spice regulation’ form much of the background that the Norwegian oil industry can call itself the world's purest. I have no faith in those who have a history's final approach to such instruments – those who, on the basis of their argument, believe that the use of the CO2 tax as an instrument was right then, but not now, those who attack the government not to act quickly enough on Mongstad, although they will not lift a finger for cleaning themselves, and those who promote their concern for the pace of climate policy, while proposing a number of new gas power plants in Norway without cleaning. We are facing a new winter with highly variable power prices in this country. The worst way out is Mid-Norway. Central Norwegian consumers now pay the price of Bondevik's performance project Worm Lange, and the majority ignored the warnings that SV came with that time. That heating the bubble bath on Frogner is cheaper than boiling water in Trøndelag, is a natural consequence of a deregulated power market where the necessity resource stream is treated as sausages and bread at a gas station. The same ones that introduced this market-liberalist system, and that brought the investments in our network down to a total minimum last decade, are now running about to build even more oil and gas monuments. It is a self-fulfilling prophecy. It is our duty to ensure the balancing of electricity prices in Norway. It is not best to pump up the electricity price by pushing power from inefficient mobile gas plants into central Norway. The Norwegian Industry, the Nature Conservation Association and the NITO have together submitted a report in the autumn showing an increasing power surplus in Norway in the long term. Their forecasts show a net supply of power of 30 TWh in 2020 and close to 50 TWh in 2030. We know that there is a great potential within the most efficient use of energy, without it being at the expense of comfort. The opposition will try to draw a picture in this debate of a government that does nothing in energy policy, and perhaps we will again hear it too far refuted the claim of one windmill under the red-green government. This government has given more than 2 billion. kr in support of wind farms in the last two years. In comparison, 400 million were given. kr for wind power deployment throughout the Bondevik II government from 2002 to 2005. The agreement on green certificates now in place means a further 26 renewable TWh into Norway and Sweden. One, two, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, There are enough of the challenges ahead in environmental policy. 4 599 species in Norway are listed in red according to the latest data from the species database. One of the species under particular pressure in Norway is the wild species. The lack of sustainable farming threatens to eradicate completely unique and very important species in Norway. That is why I am very pleased that a unanimous committee in its position has clear expectations about industry and the steps that need to be taken to ensure more sustainable operation. I am proud that the Red-Green Government has ensured that the Ministry of the Environment budget has had a real growth of 70 pst. since 2005, and that climate action in Norway has never been greater. That doesn't mean I'm satisfied. There's a lot of work left to do before we can say pleasure. We are going to prevent oil drilling in the Lofoten and the West Sea, we are going to complete the cleaning of gas power stations in Norway, we are going to stop the eradication of a number of species, and we are going to get emissions down sharply, from both transport, industry, agriculture and, above all, the oil industry. But let's now remember that we're there today – also in such a debate, where so many with so many absences of merit lists for their own part carry over what, after all, is Norway's biggest investment in the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e609	I agree with the representative Serigstad Valen that greenhouse gas reduction is important. He mentioned that it was especially at home that it was important. What is very important is that the vision of the oil and gas industry and the IEA's view of cleaning from coal power to gas is a thought that follows, for emissions are global, and coal power plants are many. A reduction in CO2 with transition from coal to gas may give 60 pst. minor emissions. Is this a way to reduce CO2 emissions that the Socialist Left Party can do well? Or does what has to be done in this area have to be perfect?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e624	I had hoped that a week's stay at the United Nations Climate Change Summit in Cancún would help clarify these issues for the Progress Party, which have obvious difficulties in understanding. In many countries, a transition from coal to gas will result in large net greenhouse gas emissions, as gas emits less CO2 during combustion. This, however, regulates EU countries themselves through their climate legislation and their renewable directive. We in Norway, on the other hand, are in a completely different situation. We have a very high renewable share, and we have great access to renewable energy. There is also the great potential in the future, and we have a climate agreement that all parties, except the Progress Party, are in the Stortinget and are committed to cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, greater emissions from gas power plants in Norway are not relevant. We want to use those resources on renewable energy and on clean-up technologies. It's a logic that any party other than the Advance Party is able to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e634	The representative Serigstad Valen referred to the Right glider flight in climate policy. That, of course, is completely misleading. I remember that the only party that was satisfied with the government's climate announcement was the Progress Party, which they are now criticising. So the Right wants more – and the government parties and the Advance Party are on the same line. I guess that's where it really is. The representative Serigstad Valen also says that some parties criticize Mongstad, but won't lift a finger on their own. Right will realise Norway’s first full-scale sewage treatment plant already in 2014, while the government believes that it should wait until 2018 or later. Then the representative Serigstad Valen from the government party SV has ordered to move the moon landing to More. We think that's a good idea. The question is whether this is also the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e643	For many years, the right has been concerned about reading skills in Norwegian school. The reading skills of the representative of Astrup regarding my performances confirm that there may be cause for concern. Firstly, I have not been able to move the moon landing anywhere. I've taken the natural consequence of the government's concession in March this year to a gas power plant on Møre, with cleaning from day one, and then I've come across, which is to be assessed in connection with the work on climate change and the climate communication in the departments on how to finance more clean-up projects in the future. The read right is that the state has to pay. What was said in the newspapers was that the oil companies have to pay – so the Right can try to avoid and explain that it is the State that owns most of the oil business in Norway. In that case, I wonder why it was the Right that introduced the CO2 tax at all in its time, which I believe is a good instrument, by a CO2 fund such as Norsk Industrie. has been set up to finance further climate change. There is something quite different than the Right Policy, which will clean one point in the country, but let all the others escape.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e657	I am pleased with the signals given by the representative Serigstad Valen on more political management of the energy market, because it is not useful to see the expression sausage and bread in any other way. But let's go to next year's budget, because that's what we're debating today. Next year's budget provides for the subsidisation of CO2 emissions from the gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad by 500 million. kr – of taxpayers’ money, as someone would have said. Where Snow White has to pay 48 cents of CO2 per m3 of gas, Kårstø and Mongstad are free of 5 cents – low fees, according to the Ministry of Finance. In addition, both Monstad and Kårstø have their allowances in the allowances system free of charge. Does the representative Serigstad Valen think it is good climate policy to subsidise the emissions of the gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e675	I must say that it is quite a good compensation that the government has committed itself to cleaning these gas power plants. And that's what we're going to do. Then I agree entirely with the Christian People's Party. It is generally too cheap to emit CO2 in Norway. I can imagine an increase in the CO2 tax in the future. In fact, the CO2 tax is down to half of what it was in 1998, while the oil price has increased many times. Cooperation with the Christian People's Party on a better use of the CO2 tax as an instrument is very open to me. And then I think that the Christian People's Party has a lot more to pick up in a collaboration with SV in this area than with its bourgeois friends. I have heard the representative speak many times about a new large number, and given what we have heard so far from the Progress Party and the Right in this debate, it may prove to be a really interesting cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e694	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e697	Also from the Christian People's Party we would like to thank the government for the job done by the Norwegian side in Cancún. There were low expectations before the climate summit started, but the meeting has ended with consensus and progress in a number of areas, which were important to get the climate negotiations back on track. But much remains until the world has committed itself to cutting CO2 emissions as much as we agreed in Copenhagen. So to the government's efforts at home: the government's efforts are not good enough for us to meet our national objectives. The Christian People's Party fundamentally disagrees with the government's unilateral focus on cost-effectiveness and economic instruments in climate policy. Norway cannot be exempted from reducing its own emissions simply because we are a rich high-cost country with few inhabitants. Yes, Norway's overall emissions are small in the large context, but we are at the global peak in emissions per capita. The question is, do we want to have it like this? Three years have passed since the climate agreement, but the government has not yet decided on how to achieve its objectives. The notified climate announcement should have arrived this year, but is postponed to next year. Each new postponement makes it more difficult to achieve climate objectives. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the signals given by the Prime Minister in the interview book "Climate Paradox", where he says outright that the goal of taking two thirds of emissions in Norway depends on whether we can get more out of the forest. The Prime Minister believes that forests are undervalued as climate action in Norway and sees the potential to achieve more of it. If this is a signal about what's coming in the climate message, I'm worried. The proportion of Norwegian emissions cut in the forest has already been determined and should not be the government’s rescue plan for cuts on the national track. SV has been on a constant shift away from their own climate policies since they arrived in government offices in 2005. The lot is not to be recognized. They may have taken over the Workers' Party's unilateral focus on market mechanisms in climate policy. I slipped into the chair when SV's representative Snorre Serigstad Valen recently said in an interview with Romsdal's Budstikke that there would be no defeat for SV if there were to be a sewage treatment plant on Fränna before at Mongstad. Also, based on the response of the representative Marthinsen to me in this debate, I laugh a little – she says that there is no prestige attached to Mongstad, and that it is very welcome if Industrikraft Møre succeeds. We all remember in 2006, when SV reluctantly accepted the development of a gas power plant at Mongstad, assuming it was to be cleaned by 2014, not from day one. The government was probably close by speaking at this time. So we know that the gas power plant in Mongstad is there today. It is going to be in regular operation from 2011, but purification is suspended indefinitely, probably until after 2020. But SV and the Workers' Party do not see this as a defeat – nor does anything new come to Fränna before that time. So for information, there is no gas power plant on Fräna today – it has to be built first in case. But Mongstad is not the only gas power plant the government has promised to clean. Kårstø stands and puts and goes, despite cleaning lifts. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government has finally come to an agreement with Sweden on green certificates. This is an important part of the climate agreement, and I would like to congratulate Terje Riis-Johansen on a good result, even if it was late. Green certificates will provide a long-term boost to renewable energy in Norway, and it will release funds in Enova for energy efficiency improvement. Cold and high electricity prices have created increased motivation for energy saving among people, but at present Enova’s support scheme for energy saving in households is out of money, and this has been the case for many years. The appropriations are not large enough to meet people's needs, and therefore, in our alternative budget, we are promoting proposals to increase the allocation just for energy saving for households with over 300 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e723	It's going to be line change. The President will allow himself to ask the representative, Mr Hemdal, to take a step to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e728	This might be a little symbolic, because I was actually going to ask the Christian People's Party where they belong in Norwegian politics – whether it's on the left or the right. Now they're moving over on the left hand side here. We now belong to the Christian People's Party – I almost want to say – attacks on the government's environmental and climate policy. They say he's not good enough. In a lot of context, they call for a change of government at the same time, so I want to ask the representative, Mr. Hemdal, whether that change of government will improve environmental and climate action in this country, or whether it is perhaps more to be achieved by the government that is now. Does the Christian People’s Party in any way have an idea that they must all be taken for granted? I see, for example: that when it comes to the Norwegian Polar Institute, there is a clear indication in a note that the budget is too tight, here should be a bet – but at the same time cut in real terms 15 million. kr. Here, you want to bet through a comment, and at the same time you cut. Is it in such a way that the Christian People's Party wants a foot in all camps?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e735	To the representative Rudihagen: Christian People's Party would like to take a step left when the Grand President asks for it – but we do not do it in the political landscape! The Christian People's Party is at the centre of Norwegian politics. I am actually a little surprised by the line, because there has been no initiative by the government's signatories on the current budgetary position, on cooperation in moving policy in any direction whatsoever. It certainly shows with all clarity that the government has enough internal quarrels. Had the government wanted to talk to the Christian People's Party, it would have had three clear expectations and demands for budget negotiations: it would have been the start of Kårstø in line with the climate agreement; it would have been the start of exploration activity on Jan Mayen, and there would have been more energy efficiency to the house and home around the country for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e744	The President may confirm that the request to move to the left was not political – but purely physical – intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e747	I'll take care of it a little bit. My question concerns glide flight, which is a concept the representative Hemdal is happy about. We heard the former representative, Hemdal, confront the representative, Marthinsen, with statements from the heads of state in More and Romesdal Workers' Party on gas power stations. Then I fall for the temptation – for it is not more than a few months since the Christian People's Party, which is in position in the North-Trundellag, demanded the launch of the highly polluting mobile gas power plants in Møre and Romsdal as price-regulating measures – to ask two questions: Is the Christian People's Party behind its trundish friends in the demand to use these emission bombs as price-regulating mechanisms, which I do not think will work? And why does the Christian People's Party hold to a different standard for the Workers' Party's state politicians than its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e754	I now referred to the magnification representative, a co-worker of both Snorre Serigstad Valen and signed, in this statement from the N.B. It is not the case that the representative Hemdal has a very good sense of glide flight. The representative Heimdal has a sense for politicians who stand up for what one believes – and the Christian People's Party stands up for the people of Central Norway. The gaseous polluting power plants that the red-green government has put in place shall be used at the time Statnet so requests. Those are the ones that have that position. It was a system that we put in place when we were in government in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e761	The installation of the representative Hemdal calls for a strong and genuine environmental exposure. In many questions, the Christian People's Party wants to go beyond the government of environmental and climate policy, and we must respect that. At the same time, one talks from time to time about this new plural that has to come, and dreams about it. Today we have heard that the Right has said that they stand firm on the climate agreement. At the same time, the debate has shown several examples of individual representatives from the Right criticising strange emission rules and others – as we have heard previous representatives from that party repeat in this Chamber. If climate and environment are as important as the representative, Mr Hemdal, it might be interesting to know how this new plurality should best be composed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e771	The new majority think I should be composed as the majority of the population wants. I think we're going to take over the majority that the people want. But the Christian People's Party does not see any difference whether it becomes a pure workers' party government or a purely progress party government in terms of the climate. Both parts will be equally evil, because those parts find each other at the worst possible points of the climate. The Christian People's Party does not have a policy in which we want to go to government either with a pure labor party government or with a pure progress party government. I can calm the committee chairman down on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e778	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e781	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review with a focus on renewable energy. I think that was very good. The left wants an ambitious environmental policy with the aim of ensuring the basis of life for future generations, and for all parts of the world. It's a fundamental liberal value view to create an ecologically equal starting point for all generations. The left will make Norway an environmental policy priority country, and we need to take a great deal of responsibility at home. We need to develop environmental technologies and find solutions that others can use. Such a conversion is demanding, but it offers new opportunities. In a world where environmental problems become clearer, we want environmental companies to become the winners of tomorrow. In the government budget, the government writes that the main instruments of Norway’s climate policy are taxes and negotiable allowances. The problem for the government is that it is not willing to use the charges to reduce emissions. Norway needs to develop and implement new climate technologies and change lifestyles in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly, while maintaining the level of welfare. Norway must go from being a fossil nation to becoming a renewable nation. The left is pleased that we finally have an agreement on a scheme of green certificates, but we would like to stress that we also need an increased general effort to get more clean energy production in Norway. The left therefore proposes, inter alia: increasing direct grants to the Energy Fund, establishing a scheme of grants for the development of thermal energy, and we will give money to the MET Centre to speed up the development of marine wind turbines. This, in addition to a stronger commitment to environmentally friendly transport, is some of the priorities we have in our alternative state budget. The left is concerned about the progress of the government's moon landing in Mongstad, while the oil and energy minister seems to have forgotten the promise of Soria Moria to clean Kårstø. The government promised in the Soria Moria declaration to clean the gas power plant at Kårstø as soon as possible. This promise has not been fulfilled. The gas power plant and the gas terminal at Kårstø emit more GHG together than any other GHG source in Norway. Oil and energy minister Terje Riis-Johansen, in his press release on the State budget, says that man-made climate change is our biggest challenge, and that CO2 capture and storage must become an important tool to cut greenhouse gas emissions. But in the proposed state budget, it seems that both Kårstø and Mongstad have unfortunately been allocated significant amounts of free allowances. In our view, such subsidisation of emissions is totally wrong and directly contrary to the policy that Norway should pursue and that the Left stands for. I noticed a bit of a wretched response from Serigstad Valen to this challenge in a line from Line Henriette Hemdal here instead. The appropriations for cleaning up polluting masses have been reduced, which may lead to delays in cleaning. I'm sorry. The left is more satisfied with the government's priorities in the budget for nature protection. But the potential for forest protection is much higher. The Left proposes a number of increases in the allocations for key environmental and climate action such as research, environmental monitoring, wildlife stock conservation, cultural memory protection, open air action, forest protection, oil conservation, clean-up measures and environmental monitoring totaling 416,5 million. kr. In total, the Left's commitment to climate and environment measures contributes to a green tax reform that contributes to a total tax shift of about 8 billion. kr – about 2,7 billion. SEK in appropriations for 2011 and reserve provision for a total of SEK 5,2 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The left also proposes increasing the capital transfer to the research fund by a total of 70 billion. kr in a strategic focus on the knowledge and low-carbon society. That effort will be crucial to achieving the objective of the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e805	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e808	Now the Left has sat with the Right in previous governments, and my question really concerns what you see now – that the Right Party and the Advance Party are finding each other. How does Left assess the constellation in relation to possible future government cooperation, when you look at the difference and the gap that exists, among other things. in climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e813	The left had good cooperation in the Bondevik I government, and we also had good cooperation in the Bondevik II government – no problems in terms of the environmental and climate challenge, as was asked here. So it was the left that was the driver to get the climate deal going. It's cross-political. All the parties on the Stortinget are in on it. If you're able to keep focus on the climate deal in the future, I think maybe that's one of the most important things we can do. But then we have to keep focusing on the important things. I mentioned some concerns related to subsidising emissions. I think that should concern the representative Stream more than exactly our cooperation with the Right, which I am absolutely sure we will get.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e820	I notice that the representative Tenden said that the Left collided with the Right and without problems in environmental policy. Then perhaps some would argue that things like Melkøya, closed secret consultation rounds on the concession treatment of oil fields, the construction of the Worm Lange, with the problems it has caused for the power balance in Middle Norway and the negotiation of Norwegian emissions in Kyoto, all are environmental policy problems. But that's not what my question is about, my question is a follow-up to Tor-Arne Stroem's line that he didn't get an answer to: the parliamentary reality is such that the Left and Right, no matter how much they wish, cannot rule alone. Such a majority would, of course, be and make up the Advance Party. What makes the Left think that they will achieve greater results in climate policy with a parliamentary basis where the Progress Party forms almost half the basis of the Chamber, as opposed to a situation where the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV form the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e827	I also noticed the post to the Serigstad Valen in place where he was more concerned about looking backwards than in the future – and it surprises me very much of such a young and forward-looking guy as Serigstad Valen. Again – I think I replied quite clearly instead: we cooperated well in the Bondevik I government. We cooperated well in the Bondevik II government. We have cooperated politically on the climate agreement. And then it's like this with respect to report: we're one and a half years into this government period. Left goes to the elections on the Left. We have put forward an ambitious alternative state budget, and if Serigstad Valen had taken the trouble to see what good environmental measures are in that budget, I am absolutely sure that he would wish he could support many of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e832	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e835	Under the Red-Green Government, the Ministry of the Environment's budget has increased by 1.8 billion. kr. That's 70 pst. It is possible that the Left cooperated well with the Right under the Bondevik Governments, but it is under the red-green government that has received money for dramatic improvements in this area. I also note that the red-green government's draft budget for all practical purposes has a broad majority here in the Grand Duchy. The budget of the Christian People's Party and the Left has only small differences in relation to the red-greens and significantly greater in relation to the Right and Advance Party. How well the red-green government hits might be illustrated by the fact that the Right will increase the effort for forest protection by 30 million. kr, while the Advance Party will reduce by 30 million. kr. We have even taken internal steps, on the dot, in the cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party, so that they can basically gather on our proposal. The point where I am most satisfied with the budget and the escalation that has taken place under the red-green is in nature diversity. There have also been more people here. There has been a quantum leap in our time, especially in relation to the law of natural diversity and the many, many budget lines that come as a result of it. The one point where the Right and Advance Party systematically want to cut is on staff. Let me just say that it's not possible to operate environmental protection without humans, and environmental protection is very often about people and building up a counter-expertise to the very many power structures of Norwegian society that don't think enough about environmental protection. These are local and central structures that have the task of thinking about environmental protection, and are one of the most important counter-forces that ensures that environmental protection actually takes place. Let me say a little bit about the climate summit in Cancún, which has been attended by several speakers. It was a thundering success, far beyond any expectation. It does not correspond to all the needs we have for climate action in the world, but it was an incredibly important step forward at a time when many people wondered if a UN process could deliver. There were five great successes in Cancún, as I see it, and let me quickly mention them: the first was that the meeting demonstrates that the UN can deliver on climate. We showed in Nagoya that we can deliver on natural diversity. Now it is demonstrated that you can deliver on climate, and it has recreated confidence and drive in the global multilateral process. Secondly, a broad agreement, such as the Cancún Agreement, will now lay a floor for progress in climate policy. We launched before Cancún the idea that it will not be the 'big bang' of climate policy, but we have to build stone on stone, floor by floor. What we have now done is to build substantial floors in the climate construction plant, and then the next agreement will go on from there. For a number of countries, the last year has been used to undermine what happened in Copenhagen. Many countries were not in Copenhagen. Those who were in Copenhagen did not even agree with what they had adopted. Now there's a foundation that everyone's behind, and we'll build on. Thirdly, there is an agreement on forest conservation, where Norway played a central role. We were the organizer of that process. Fourth, there is a green fund established, and fifthly, there is a significant leap forward in technology transfer from rich to poor countries. All in all, this was a strong tradition in Cancún in relation to what someone had expected, but even from a sober analysis we have to say that this was very, very good. The biggest reward goes to Mexico, which showed that a developing country — or at least an intermediate country — can operate international ultra-class diplomacy in a way that very few other countries would be able to do. Mexico's Foreign Minister, Patricia Espinosa, appeared as a global leadership at this conference, for which all of us should only bow in gratitude. Then there are two major weaknesses in the agreement that we have to address in the years to come. One is that we have now adopted a number of technology structures, green funds, rainforest conservation, etc., but they must be filled with money. It doesn't help to have paper structures if there's no money coming into them. The second and most important is that the emission functions contained in the Cancún agreement are not large enough. We must not forget that there are three times as many emission reductions in the Cancún agreement as in the Kyoto agreement. So when someone talks about the Kyoto agreement as a major success, in that case this is a significantly greater success. The Cancún agreement has much greater emission reductions than the Kyoto agreement, but it is not enough to achieve the global objective of preventing temperature rises above 2°C. In the future, the government will come back with a strategy towards Durban in 2011 for what Norway can contribute to making Durban a new floor in this building, and we will come back with the Norwegian measures in the Communication to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2011 on how to meet our part of the global climate objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e863	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e867	The Council of State describes the climate summit in Cancún as a daunting success, and at the same time he says that it does not meet expectations. What a change of heart he would use if it had been in line with expectations would have been exciting to the right. But leave it alone. Romesdal’s Budstikke wrote on 30 November that ‘SV is for gas power plants in Elneswagen’, but that they require purification. The cleaning costs will be covered by doubling the oil companies’ CO2 tax. This is a paradox in many ways because of it. clean technology is not available today. But is it true that SV is for gas power plants with cleaning just one get to point to another external actor who has to be with and pay the cleaning costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e877	Not only SV, but the government is for gas power plants with cleaning, and we want all the actors who are able to do so to be happy. I heard Right here say that it can be done in 2014. If that's the case, I'm sure the oil and energy minister and I will be the first to spread the champagne. But what we cannot have is a system in which all actors are going to roll the bill over to the state and say that the state is going to pay. Then we have to make a cold analysis of what the state can contribute by means of funds. But otherwise, we want all the actors who are able to develop carbon capture and storage at a gas power plant, all the best of luck. It'll be absolutely brilliant. As far as Cancún is concerned, we have to be able to see the difference, that this was an incredibly important decision that made climate policy many steps forward, but that it is not the final climate decision. I am not even sure if we will ever get the final climate decision. It's a process where we build floors on the floor and solve problems, parallel to how we, for example. has built an international trade regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e884	Let me first say thank you for the last time to the Minister for the Environment. It was, as he said, a good outcome of the meeting. The climate challenge is enormous, and it will require considerable knowledge of how it develops, but also knowledge of how the various actions we put in place will work. That is why I registered, among other things, Ellen Hambro's chronicle in Today's Business on Tuesday, where she points out that the government cuts in climate research for 2011. She also points out that this is a breach of the climate agreement in Stortinget. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment if he agrees with the Director of the Climate and Pollution Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e891	I don't think it's a cover to say that the government cuts in climate research through the budget. Of course, it is possible to think that we should increase more in climate research. It's a discussion I like to take, because I want to fight for more for climate research in many channels. I think it's important. I believe that it is not coverage to say that the government sucks in it. Let me also say, since this is a debate we have quite often in the Storting, that this points out the important thing that it is not accidental that she says this. The underlying departments of my department, whether it be the Directorate for Climate and Pollution or the Directorate for Nature Management, the National Antiquities or others, have been notified of their professional positions, and are then allowed to do so in the media. Every time the Right likes this, it's great. Each time, however, the right does not like what is said from one of these underlying floors, it is called for prohibition, censorship and even perhaps the departure of these leaders. I would very much like the Right to make up a fundamental assessment of this, for it would clarify this debate much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e898	Governments have come home from a thunderous success in Cancún. If I'm going to write about his opening sentences in today's posts, it's probably an excellent budget, when he points to the 70 pst.-increase that's been. But the question is, what does the government spend this money on? The Council of State has said that it is a daily struggle to be the Minister of Environmental Protection, he has no overall authority. In a month it is four years since the climate agreement was signed here in Stortinget. It's a little bit of a pause of thought. The Council of State has said that we do not have to wait until the Climate Action Communication in order to take good action from the Climate Action Programme. My question to the Council of State is then: Can he, with a 70 p.m. increase, point to three measures that climate change has put on the table, which will be implemented with the 2011 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e905	Let me first say that this is an excellent budget compared to the Bondeviks government. That's what's a bit of a dilemma here, because the Christian People's Party always prefers to compare the red-green government with Jesus Christ. Then we almost always fail. On the other hand, if you compare Kjell Magne Bondevik, which is also a good Christian, we usually get very good out of it. The last comparison is probably more relevant politically when it comes to the matter, because what we are facing in Norway is whether we are going to have a red-green cooperation or even a blue-blue cooperation, not whether we are going to have a red-green cooperation or the absolutely perfect policy. Let me mention one area that I think is very important, where we are taking steps to implement a better climate policy in Norway. It is to have a faster phase-in of electric cars in Norway. Now the electric cars are coming pretty fast. There are family cars, not the type of delivery car, which have been set up through charging stations and in a number of other areas, charging policies, so that they can enter as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e912	First, I would like to congratulate the result in Cancún and thank you for the information we got here today, we who were not so lucky to be here. I'm a little sorry that the Council of State is talking down the Bondevik government's commitment to environmental protection, but it's got to be. In my post I mentioned the gas power subsidies. I have noticed that the Council of State has stated to the Economics of today that he will go through all Norwegian fossil subsidies. So my question is, is it an idea to start by removing the gas power subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e919	Let me just first say that no one has ever heard me speak negatively about the Bondevik government other than when the red-green government gets criticized. Then I almost have to compare, because that is the political options in Norway we have to compare. We can't compare it to the perfect one. The Bondevik government did excellent things in several areas, but as we've done a lot more, we have to be able to make that comparison. In the case of gas power, I reject the idea that there are subsidies that some people get a free quota. The whole EU system is based on the fact that most, or at least very many, receive free allowances in EU legislation. I mean too many, and Norway has worked to reduce the number of free allowances. But it cannot be called a subsidy that an aluminium company or a gas power plant receives a free quota. Those who get this have the same incentive to reduce as everyone else, because if they manage to reduce their own emissions, they can sell this quota and make money on it. So both free allowances and paid allowances help bring down emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e926	Once again, I would like to thank you for an interesting week in Cancún. The International Energy Agency and the oil industry are of the same opinion, that in order to reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants globally, not in Norway – which the representative Serigstad Valen did not get – the best thing to do is to build gas-fired power plants for a transitional period. The renewable industry has not come to such an extent that it can replace all the coal-fired power stations and the power they produce. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council of State see that it would be a good thing globally to reduce CO2 emissions from coal-fired power stations by approx. 60 pst., if you use gas instead of coal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e938	Let me first say that Snorre Serigstad Valen answered these questions very well instead – to such an extent that I sent him a message and offered him to take the line change for me, so that we could raise the level here in the storeroom. That being said, I believe what he said was very correct. Internationally, it will almost always be a great advantage to have a transition from coal to gas. This will dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions in most countries. Norway is in a different situation. We have a very high energy consumption per capita in any global context. We have to get it down. The only way to get it down is to stimulate energy efficiency. This includes, among other things: one of the questions. If a lot of new power is built up, it will be much more difficult to achieve the necessary energy efficiency in Norway. We have a lot to go on there. We can learn from Japan – to take an example. Secondly, the force we have is essentially renewable through hydropower. There will then be a worsening of the CO2 situation in Norway if we replace hydropower and energy efficiency with gas-based power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e948	For the sake of information only, the President would draw attention to the fact that there is nothing in Storting's Rules of Procedure that would prevent a gambler representative from requesting a reply from a government council of his own party. But it won't be possible in this round, because now the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e952	I realized that the Solheim Council was so shy that he also talked about answering the question – but it may be a little out of order. Wednesday, December 8, this year was an important day. At that time, Norway and Sweden finally agreed on a single electricity certification scheme. We are with the first two countries in Europe that have entered into such a commitment to a large-scale deployment of renewable energy, to which these certificates will lead. In total, Norway and Sweden shall deploy 26.4 TWh renewable energy until 2020. That means an increase of about 20 pst. of today’s production capacity in Norway. It's big. Equalise the small cord exchange: we had to build up about eight gas power plants to reach such a level or, in order to take a more relevant Swedish example, four nuclear power reactors. Instead, we are now giving priority to building clean renewable energy. It is forward-looking policy. The government does not want long-term price differences in electricity in Norway. Major variations from part of the country to part of the country are experienced and unfair. At the same time, the electricity price reflects consumption, production and transmission conditions at all times in Norway and the Nordic countries. Therefore, the basic conditions in the power market can only be improved through increased investments in the electricity grid, increased renewable energy production and increased efforts to improve energy efficiency – what I would call building the country. This government is doing just that. We have doubled the appropriations for energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. We have saved or produced new power equivalent to 20 Alta power plants in the last five years. Significant investments and upgrades of the central network are also planned. State network alone will invest for up to 40 billion. I'll spend the next ten years. The situation in Central Norway requires particular attention. A new power line from Sweden, the Nea–Järp current, is fully exploited for the first time in the coming winter. It will improve the supply of electricity and will remedy the situation in the region somewhat. At the same time, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has opened up partial decisions so that the construction of the Ørskog-Fardal power line can be started quickly. The question of progress will be crucial in our further treatment of this line – this because there is a large untapped potential for renewable energy along the line, and because a whole part of the country needs it to hurt. During the year that we're about to leave behind, we've put in place several important milestones in energy policy. We have adopted a law on marine energy, which introduces the possibilities of an entirely new form of energy in the decades to come. With this Marine Energy Act and the Strategy, the focus on immature technologies, the work of the Directorate Group and strategic impact assessments, there has been an offensive development of marine energy in the future. We have also presented plans to keep progress up in our two main power transmission projects, Sima–Samnanger and Ørskog–Fardal. In addition, we have gradually escalated the allocations to Enova to a record level in 2011, and finally, as mentioned above, we have delivered an agreement on electricity certificates on formidable 26.4 TWh renewable energy by 2020. With these crucial prerequisites in place, I believe that there is a need to look at our entire energy policy as such – in the light of and as a result – and with some very clear objectives for our work: that we will bring Norway together to one power-rich, with equal and predictable prices of electricity, that we will take advantage of the advantages we have as an energy nation, and by creating values for future generations that we will use our enormous energy resources as our greatest advantage in the role of leading countries in the climate struggle. I have therefore announced today that I will promote a communication on energy policy to the Stortinget. I will initiate this work in the near future to set up an energy selection. This will be a public body mandated to assess and assess developments in the energy and power balance by 2030 and 2050. The government's goal is to become a world leader in the development of environmentally friendly energy. A wide range of instruments have been established to achieve this ambitious objective. Among other things, we see that Norwegian companies are good at technology development. Just technology development is essential if we are to succeed in the climate struggle. I just want to mention Mongstad briefly here today, but I'm going to come back a lot. The size is going to get a broad orientation about Mongstad over New Year's, and I'm concerned that we're going to have to discuss these projects in a good, proper and thorough way. There are major projects that deserve a lot of attention in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e988	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e991	The Council of State today announces a broad review of the energy and power balance. A wide range of professional competences to be delivered by 2012 shall be established. It's very positive. What is a little strange is that the Progress Party has called for this several times and was told that the government did not want to draw up such bureaucratic plans. They would rather work directly with matters. So now the government has turned around completely. When the government will now draw up plans for the balance of power and energy, it is paradoxical that the red-greens will vote against a similar proposal from the opposition in Stortinget. Can we expect the position to turn around and give the opposition a say in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1000	There's no reverse operation here at all. What red-green politicians have said in this room, and what I and the government have said on different occasions, is that it is important to address the concrete challenges that need to be addressed, up against the power situation in Norway in the short and medium term. Now I mean we're starting to get it into place. I mentioned in my post on the pulpit some of the main pillars of it. The green certificates that were put in place last week are a very good example of that. Now that we're getting more out of it, I think we have a foundation to move on, and by going further, I mean putting energy policy in place by 2030 and 2050. It wasn't right to start that process before we had put in place more of the current energy policy, but now that we have it, we're going to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1007	Governments referred to the Green Certificate Agreement, which will provide Norway and Sweden with a total of 26.4 TWh of new renewable energy, of which 13.2 will be financed in Norway and the other half in Sweden. But it's up to the actors and the authorities where the power production itself comes from. The agreement on green certificates expired a few years ago, and the Prime Minister said at the time that the scheme was for animals for Norwegian consumers. So my question to the Council of State is: what about this scheme, where Norwegian consumers are going to finance half of the development – we don't know how much is coming in Norway – that makes it better for Norwegian consumers than the contract as it was last agreed, which didn't lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1014	It is important to point out precisely what the representative of Meling here points out, that an agreement on green certificates, which has been widely wanted by the Norwegian political environment, also has a cost. It starts with a cost for consumers of about one ear per kilowatt hour in the first few years, moving up to about five centimeters per kilowatt hour a little over the middle of the period, then going down a little bit. However, this is provided for expected power prices. The certificates are a market-driven system, so if the power price rises, the need for a given level of certificate price may be less than what we have foreseen. But there is no doubt that initially there is an expected cost associated with this. I think that's right. I believe that we have to accept paying a price to get more renewable energy, and that the cost around this is acceptable. With regard to the agreement you worked with the last, I was not in position then to now be able to give some reviews of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1021	I note that the Council of State cannot explain something that is better for Norwegian consumers in the contract that is now available. That means that we probably have five lost years in terms of generating more renewable energy. I am afraid that we have also lost time in producing a comprehensive energy message, where one sees energy, climate and economic development in a larger context in the short and long term. This sample, which has been appointed by the Council of State, shall be the first to submit its report in 2012. This means that Stortinget is unlikely to receive a wholesale notification until no later than 2013. Does not the red-green government have any ambition to use its majority to actually put energy policy into practice, until 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1028	Here I believe that the representative Meling combines two very different aspects. One is what we are now going to do, to put the long-term perspectives on energy policy. We're talking about 2050, almost 40 years in time, and then – in the extension of it – the representative Meling is taking up ambitions related to implementing our practical energy policy. I was both in my post and in the previous line exchange that it has been so important for me to just do it, and green certificates are one example of that. The fact that we have now developed another law for the Storting this year related to sea wind, I believe that we have taken a very good example of taking action around what is the major energy policy challenges – taken decisions in the Storting and put policy and policy frameworks in place. When it's done, I think it's also right, based on this, to attach the look further forward, to put the big lines for the longer term. But there are two different challenges, and it was wrong to do the last one before we had done the first one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1033	Finally, it looks like we're getting green certificates in place. That's good. The Council of State announces that he will provide an energy message that will focus on 2030-2050. A future energy message is a message that sees climate and energy as a whole. It will be Christian People's Party's greeting to the government on this day. Head of the committee, Erling Sande, presented a challenge to the government, I would say, that there is ‘no reason to fall asleep on the laurel’ – and the matter was about energy efficiency improvement. Green certificates are in place – what about energy efficiency improvement through Enova? Will the government continue to invest in Enova, maintain the network tariff and maintain the level of funding for such an important instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1042	First of all, with all respect: I think maybe the representative Sande put it a little bit more clearly in his good post. I think it is nice that the opposition parties also enjoy what we have obtained around green certificates. I honestly believe that it's going to be very good, and that it's going to be the grips of the energy policy that you're going to talk about, including in 10, 20 and 30 years. With regard to the role of Enova in the future and energy efficiency improvement, this opens up a slightly different Enova – an Enova that will have somewhat less efforts to address, for example: wind, as we know, has been a major resource use at Enova in recent years, and an Enova that can become clearer on heat, energy efficiency and technology development. When we see the costs of energy efficiency improvement, we see that it is the lowest connecting cost of everything being done. So I have great ambitions for an Enova with a greater focus on energy efficiency improvement as a result of the fact that this agreement is now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1051	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1055	When I heard the exchange of lines between the representative from the Christian People's Party and the councillor, Solheim, here instead, where Solheim compared the red-green government with Jesus Christ and Bondevik, I came to the former Uppland representative, Åge Hovengen, who after standing here on the pulpit was criticized for blasphemy. Then the good spirit answered, "I have not said anything wrong concerning neither our Lord nor his Son, Jesus Christ, but it is the groundmanship I have criticized. That's what's too bad. I want to underline once again this effort of the government on the environment. Environmental concerns are strong in all departments and sectors, and this year it is a historically high environmental effort. Compared to last year, there's an increase of 17 pst, and that increase will continue into 2011. So now it's approaching a total wager of 40 billion. kr, and there is an increase from 2005 to almost 70 pst, which many have underlined here. This shows the government's ability and willingness to prioritize the environment. There are large investments in many different departments, for example: investments in the operation of the railways in the Ministry of Transport's budget, in the capture and storage of carbon in the Ministry of Oil and Energy's budget, etc. Another example is the cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Industry on a programme for the commercialisation of environmental technologies. The program has a total frame of 500 million. kr over three years, and aims to contribute to sustainable business based on environmental technology in Norway. So the concern for the environment and the climate obviously doesn't have to conflict with business and value creation, on the contrary. There are great possibilities in new, green industries. The significance of the climate is superior to most things on the environment. Climate is also decisive for our natural decline, for flora and fauna and the different species of their survival possibilities. I think we have to use nature. After all, we have a tradition of being left out of nature's surplus, and not least, nature allows for a valuable open-air life. In the budget there is also a strong commitment to it. It's hugely important that we use our nature for hunting and fishing, that we see the value of flora and fauna, at all that we use our nature as recreation in an increasingly urbanized everyday life. One feels that a lot of people don't learn to use nature. That's why I think one here also has to look at bets in several departments, and not least bets on clay balls, just to give everyone a chance to get into nature. Unfortunately, it turns out that there are social divisions here, and then it's true that one has a political and offensive attitude to it. We've protected a lot and taken care of the natural decay. At the same time, we bind large areas in many municipalities. It is then extremely important that these municipalities also have the opportunity to exploit the potential of these protected areas. The value creation application is a passed-on application that should be used for that purpose. In the setting, we go quite far – as one has also been in the past – when it comes to clearing up the relationship between mountain government and the State's natural supervision. It has been a repetition for years, in many budgetary remarks. It's really a breakthrough what's happening in the setting. I think it's strange that the opposition only repeats its old remarks instead of being constructively involved in this cleanup. The State’s nature oversight has important tasks and has been strengthened in its budget. But it is also important, as the Great Government has previously pointed out, that mountain government has a role to play in this. Therefore, it is now good that a letter has been sent to both the State Department of Natural Resources and the State Department that underlines the need for a good cooperation relationship, and that a separate post will be created to be used for the purchase of services from the SNO to the mountain government. Now it is known that the item may not be called ‘buying’ but must be included under ‘special operating costs’. It is important to stress that this is a minimum amount. This, of course, will increase with the needs of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1077	For the second winter in a row, we go into a strenuous force situation. This should be unnecessary in the energy nation of Norway. We export ten times more energy than we consume, but manage to set ourselves up so that our own business is stopped to save electricity. People are asked to turn down the heat and turn off the lights at once. That's not the way the Progress Party wants to have it. We disagree very much with SV and others in Stortinget who openly say that they want a higher power price. Unfortunately, they get what they want with today's government. The Progress Party will use the energy resources we have. We want to ensure that our energy resources benefit our business and our population through secure access to reasonable energy. Our natural resources should not only be an instrument for filling the treasury through high electricity prices, high energy charges and high profits from state energy companies. The Progress Party wants to make more use of our hydropower. We must dare to look at the protection decisions of the 1960s and 1970s to see if the protection values can be achieved while we are making a prudent use of energy resources. Several projects in the West and North Norway indicate that it is fully possible, but the government's symbolic policy must be sidelined. We need to simplify the concession process in order to build small-scale power plants. Five years in a row is unacceptable. We should also give local authorities the opportunity to deal with such issues in order to avoid queues. The Progress Party is well pleased with the agreement with Sweden on a common green certification market. I note that the government has delayed the process by five years before they ended up with a scheme in line with the 2004 Progress Party's wishes. That is good, but at the same time confirms that it is the government that is the pin in today's energy policy. I am pleased that the government changed its policy from the Soria Moria I declaration, and now assumes that the certification system will be technology neutral. This will provide an important incentive for both environmentally friendly hydropower and wind power. Some are concerned that the power customers get an extra cost. I share that concern, and we should be willing to look at the electricity tax level if the costs of the green certificates become extra high. But I think the power customers in total come out better now than without a certification scheme. Green certificates will provide an additional incentive to expand new power generation. This will improve the market balance, which will push prices downwards. Many talk about Norway as a European battery. The Progress Party supports the idea of selling Norwegian hydropower expensive to Europe in order to re-import cheap wind power. But it is important that the desire to realise the values of Norwegian hydropower does not happen at the expense of Norwegian electricity customers. They shall benefit from Norwegian natural resources. A long-term review of the power and energy balance that the government is now announcing is welcomed. Today, there is no link between objectives and instruments. We know very little about how the government is working towards the EU with the EU's renewable directive, and we know little about how Norwegian objectives are supposed to be met. We know little about what the government wants with Enova, now that green certificates take on important parts of Enova's work. Now that we get technology-neutral instruments in new power generation, the Progress Party believes we should get technology-neutral instruments in energy saving. We need to debate how hard we are going to drive Norwegian hydropower, in the light of the vision of being Europe's battery. There are many who in environmental debates will have less power driving, while in force debates you will have more. It's not related. And we have to seriously discuss what kind of strategy you really need to have on sea wind turbines. The Minister of Energy said earlier this year that he does not believe in any commercial offshore wind turbines in Norway for the next ten years. Neither does the Advance Party. Others, on the other hand, give the impression that Norwegian offshore wind farms will help the EU with their renewable targets by 2020. The Progress Party believes that subsidising the development of large offshore wind farms in Norway to export more electricity to Europe could be a very costly affair for Norwegian electricity customers. We will warn against that. On the other hand, authorities should provide incentives for a test area for sea wind turbine technology, which can stimulate the Norwegian supplier industry to test out its technologies and then compete on the sea wind markets that come elsewhere. The Progress Party is concerned that we have a differentiated business life that has predictable framework conditions in terms of taxes and charges. A prerequisite for Norwegian industry to compete with similar foreign companies is that the state provides the companies with the same taxes and taxes imposed on the industry in the competing countries. Today we know that Swedish interests behind the name Ironman will establish themselves on the Tjeldbergodden in Møre and Romsdal. An establishment will initially mean 100 secure jobs. The raw materials are Norwegian gas and Swedish iron ore. If the concession request is not dealt with positively soon, we will lose 100 badly needed industrial workplaces. Everything indicates that in the near future we will have a surplus of power in the Nordic region. Through a comprehensive energy and industrial plan, the Stortinget will be able to plan new industrial opportunities where the supply of power is greatest. In aluminium production and in other power-processing industries, Norwegian enterprises are world leaders. Production is also the purest in terms of climate emissions. The progress party is known that ALCOA is looking at the possibilities for a large aluminium mill in Finnmark. The power of the plant will be based on renewable wind and hydropower. The question to be asked is whether the government wants this type of industry to expand its activity in Norway. If the government is not proactive towards businesses like ALCOA and others, we will lose the opportunity for many new jobs, which will go to other countries. The party points to the danger that much of the power-generating industry will disappear to countries with lower taxes and taxes, so-called carbon leakage. A clear example of this is Hydro's participation in the world's largest aluminiumworks in Qatar – a work where the opening was celebrated by both government councillors and representatives from the royal house. Harald Heide-Steen said in one of his parodies that it was not easy to see the boundary under water. I'm inclined to believe that the government believes the same thing also with regard to the limit in the air. If not, the government could hardly have remained completely calm when Hydro decided to be a partner in the world's largest aluminiumworks, with electricity from unclean gas power stations and without CO2 charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1118	Although we are building more renewable energy – we are still going to do that and have a strong focus on it – we must not forget what the petroleum industry has meant to us in this country. In Norway, industry is important both for the development of skills, jobs and regional development, and not least for the value creation that gives us well-being and employment. In the world, we see that the need for energy is enormous. According to estimates by the International Energy Agency, the world needs both oil and gas for many years to come. The state plays a major role in the socket, and the activity in the oil and gas sector is important for Norway. Today there is a greater diversity of actors on the pedestal than ever before, and this is very joyful. We see several places around Norway what the petroleum activity has meant for Norway. We can start with Stavanger, but we also see it in Kristiansund, where the industry has been of great importance. Kristiansund has become an exhibition window today – I have been there myself. Only in the 1990s was it about. 13-14 pst. unemployment in Kristiansund. Today, there is almost no such thing. I have used to say it: «Look to Kristiansund». The development of snow-whites and the activity that is gradually linked to Goliath have contributed to the long-term deployment and qualification of the supply industry in North Norway. The result came in the summer when Statoil awarded maintenance contracts, among others. to Aibel and MOMEK. In Hammerfest, Snow White will continue to have a major impact on local business, infrastructure development and not least on local competence development. Maintenance of the plant will require more skilled mechanical and engineering workers. There is an increasing need for local and increased cooperation between high schools, colleges and, in particular, industry. The activities of Hammerfest show that it is important to invest in highly skilled workplaces. It has helped young people with high levels of education to become or move back. We have a huge challenge in the north in terms of population. Today, approx. 9.7 pst. of the population of the country in the northern regions. Real and professional recruitment for both the petroleum industry and for other skilled industries is a challenge we have to face in order to maintain the country's competitiveness. Recruitment to the oil industry is particularly affected by the misrepresentation of the fact that there is an industry on the heel and during winding-up – it is not erased. Even with current knowledge and technology, the activity on Norwegian pedestal will be an essential part of Norwegian activity over the next 50 to 100 years. Competence and creativity are also required from new generations to make sustainable use of our resources. It is an important and forward-looking profession for young people to make their educational and professional choices. The northern regions were once again at the centre of political interest when the red-green government presented its Northern Region strategy in the autumn of 2006. It's not the first time we've been promised big bets in the north, but this time it's a more motivated optimism and a great deal of interest from nutritionists who want to be part of this development. That's where the government will deliver. The political choices on North petroleum activities are comparable to those faced by Norwegian politicians 40 years ago with the North Sea as the basis. It was then decided to bet deliberately and ambitiously on developing a Norwegian petroleum competence. The challenge for North Norway today is to create a similar development based on our resources in the North Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, thus offering young people in the region a professional career in the petroleum industry and, in particular, in the supplier industry. Today, approx. 250,000 people in this industry. That's why it's so important to acquire more knowledge. Knowledge is not bad to bear. Finally, in the draft budget, we continue with the government's commitment to renewable energy and the conversion of energy use. We have doubled support for renewable energy and energy efficiency. In order to meet climate requirements and improve the power situation, this effort must continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1139	I would like to take this opportunity to commend the government for its efforts during the Cancún climate conference last week. Norway is undoubtedly boxing over our weight class. We should have ambitions to keep going. Under Mexico's skillful leadership, there was also a result that provided the basis for further progress and progress. In the United Nations, things are not always the same. However, the government must not make the mistake of translating international success into national self-righteousness. There is no need to be content with the effort at home. The critical criticism of the government's climate policy by the National Audit Office is an important reminder of this. Equally important is that climate policy does not overshadow the importance of classical environmental work. Pure nature, better local environment and good water quality in sea and rivers are an important prerequisite for maintaining biodiversity in Norway. On the right, we believe that we need to renew and strengthen efforts to clean up toxic sediments and better preserve important forest values in Norway. The right is therefore significantly more important for these purposes in our alternative budgets. Norway has a responsibility to demonstrate that it is actually possible to combine high living standards with low greenhouse gas emissions and a modest ecological footprint. If we're going to trigger the technological quantum leap required to realize the low-emission society, we're totally dependent on potential instruments. The right has therefore proposed that eco-innovation be a fourth investment area for oil money use in Norway. First of all, we're going to take 5 billion. kr, but the ambition must be to make this a significant area of activity in the years to come. Future policy is about making tomorrow possible what is impossible today. Therefore, the work done by Norway in developing CO2 capture and storage is perfectly correct and necessary. As a major producer and exporter of oil and gas, we also have a moral responsibility to contribute to technologies that can clean up emissions. Right supports the development of the technology centre in Mongstad, although it is realized later and at a much higher price than initially thought. Work there and at other research institutions in Norway can become crucial in the development of clean technologies that more than the world's richest countries can afford to use. Therefore, the right-hand forces the CLIMIT fund by 1 billion. kr in our alternative state budget. Many countries have come a long way in the planning of full-scale power plant cleaning. In Norway, it is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve full-scale treatment in Mongstad. The investment decision is deferred until 2014, and the government announces that there may be further deferrals because it considers that it will open up more technological solutions. Building a demanding pioneer project on a hot plant has contributed to cost recovery. The government estimates the cost of full scale clean-up of the power plant to between 20 and 25 billion. kr. There is a lot of money and a price tag that will help to scare more than encourage other countries that consider cleaning up power plants. At the same time, cleaner technology suppliers believe that power plants can be cleaned at a fraction of the price and much faster if they can be realized elsewhere than in Mongstad. In view of the power situation in central Norway, the Right believes that the government should open up the possibility that the first full-scale sewage treatment plant in Norway and the world of a gas power plant can be realized in central Norway or elsewhere where there is a shortage of power given that we find satisfactory solutions for the transport and storage of CO2. As an intermediate solution, it should be considered whether CO2 can be transported on ships and deposited, for example. in the Utsira formation, together with CO2 from the Sleipner field. A current option in Central Norway can be Industrial Power Møre's plans for a gas power plant in Elnesvågen, but other alternatives should also be considered. The significant additional costs and technological and safety challenges of building full-scale installations for the capture of CO2 in a ‘hot’ gas power plant in operation will then be avoided, while remaining ground-breaking technological. This does not exclude that Mongstad can and should be cleaned, but it may help to allow Mongstad to be cleaned at a much lower price than the government currently assumes. At the same time, a full-scale plant already completed in 2014 will be an equally important – or more important – contribution to the world as a plant in Mongstad, which will only be completed by 2020. If the government chooses to allow the first full-scale facility to be realised elsewhere than in Mongstad, the government should establish a fully open bidding round, where the liability and risk of taxpayers are clearly defined, and all suppliers of different technologies are welcome to participate in the bidding process. It is a good starting point for extracting the potential of suppliers and an important contribution to the development of cost-effective CO2 capture and storage technologies. It needs the world. And the world has neither time nor money to wait for full-scale sewage treatment plants in Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1189	Today, when we are discussing the budget position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment for 2011, we are also reminded of the importance of energy supply for the inhabitants of winter Norway. For several weeks we have seen countless reports about the sharp winter cold and how this affects the power prices. I, who was born and raised in the northern part of the country, often wonder about all the newspapers that are used when the thermometers in Oslo show a little more minus than what is usual, while there is no commotion when this happens in the north. Well, well, maybe we're a little bit more tanned up there. In any case, common to all of us is that we need to produce and run electricity at reasonable prices. The importance of the power supply should be agreed by all, even when electricity is to be produced and fed to consumers. Nor do we want what we have to pay for the flow to be very different from the part of the country to the part of the country, as well as the Council of State well justified. These are matters for which next year's budget provides a good basis through the priorities. Let me also relate a few words to the importance of Norwegian oil and gas production for international energy supply and for value creation and well-being here to countries. So far, this production in Norway has taken place in an environmentally good way. Thanks to a fantastic technology development, this will be even better and safer in the years to come. That's why we need to get on with investigations and plans so that new areas can be made ready for such activities. I do not conceal that I, like the representative Stroem, have great expectations of what this industry can provide in the future of activity and employment in the northern regions. But then we have to carry out the investigations that are needed in order for us to know more about what we might say yes to, and what we say no to. Everyone needs knowledge to make the right decisions. In the same context, let me also commend the government for the comprehensive explanation given in the budget paper on research and development on CO2 management. The government clearly demonstrates the intensity of its efforts to find good solutions for CO2 management, and thus good climate action. Here is an extensive and extensive work being done, and I look forward to getting this case back to Stortinget with the first. I would also like to add a few words in this connection to the challenge of reconciling a sensible stock of wild game with a stock of livestock that is so crucial for food production and for living areas. Here, in the coming year, a great deal of willingness must be shown to identify stock targets for predators, which are such that the agricultural industry and rural farming survive. I think this is quite possible. But then there has to be a willingness to put in place the necessary measures. Today we are given too many signals that ‘after the book’ farmers have to give up their farming because of excessive losses of animals taken from predators. District agriculture no longer tolerates this situation. It is therefore necessary to adopt effective measures as soon as possible. I believe that the Soria Moria Declaration has the formulations necessary to achieve good results for all parties. Therefore, this must be implemented as it was meant when it was written. No one will eradicate our predators, but it must be possible to do this without setting up an environmentally sound rural agriculture around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1216	The approach set out here continues to strengthen the work of the environment, climate and renewable energy that has taken place under the red-green majority. The budget contains many good measures to take care of nature, species and climate protection. 2010 is the year of natural diversity, and I am very pleased that we have now moved on in protecting areas and protecting natural diversity, so that the coming generations can also take part in the amazing nature we have in Norway. Last week there were climate negotiations in Cancún, Mexico. Since COP15 in Copenhagen did not deliver to expectations, the level of expectations for the Cancún meeting has been very low. When the result was clear on Saturday, however, it was an important step in the right direction that was taken in Cancún for the further negotiations on a solution to the climate problem. The climate agreement is a balanced package that includes emission cut, emission control and measurement systems, funding, climate adaptation, technology transfer and rainforest. It provides a good basis for establishing a binding climate agreement covering all countries. Budgetary adjustment, as it stands here, also continues the strong commitment of the red-green government to increased power generation from renewable energy sources and increased energy efficiency. Under the red-green government, the focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency has doubled. The same is true of efforts to upgrade the electricity grid in Norway. We aim to reduce regional price differences in Norway, and to improve the power balance, so we avoid the peaks in the current price that we see now. It is unfair for many that electricity prices vary between the regions of the country. By increasing the power supply and strengthening the transmission system, we are helping to solve these problems. It's also important that people get the opportunity to save electricity. There has been a great deal of interest in the Enova grant scheme for households’incests. In 2011, Enova receives 40 million. kr to the scheme, and Enova may use it from just over the new year. This money is important for people to apply for, and get access to. It is very gratifying that the government has now agreed with Sweden on the framework for the new green certificates. In Norway, a further 10 TWh means new renewable energy. In total, Sweden and Norway are now to facilitate the production of 26.4 TWh new renewable energy. This corresponds to about three times Oslo's consumption. Much of the new power in Norway and Sweden will come from wind power. Today, Norway has a good cluster for the development of wind power in Rogaland. The region has been important for the development of the petroleum industry and the knowledge and competence of the region, which now also benefits the new energy industry. Outside Karmøy, the Hywind mill is now being tested. It is the world's first MW class liquid windmill and represents a major technological advance. Liquid offshore wind turbines can help produce a lot of new renewable energy. The project outside Karmøy also shows that the development of knowledge and competences in renewable energy is very important. That is why I am very pleased that we are now continuing the great effort in this area. Although Norway is now continuing to invest in renewable energy, it is important to remember that international oil and gas continue to play an important role. In the future too, today's power plants will emit large amounts of greenhouse gases. It is therefore important to continue the development of carbon capture and storage technologies. And it's important to develop technologies that can be used in so-called hot power plants. Mongstad is thus a very important project — with a lot of international attention. Mongstad has been under a lot of discussion lately. I insist that Mongstad is an important project. In particular, the test centre, TCM, is important. The TCM will move forward as planned and will be completed in 2011/2012. The government has announced that it will come to Stortinget with its own case of development in Mongstad, and thus the Stortinget will have a good opportunity to take the big discussion about Mongstad. The budget presented here shows a clear focus on future energy sources. At the same time, the budget provides for continued strengthening of work on natural diversity and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1248	We have an exciting holiday home with many things and educational trips in the committee. Many of the issues that are important to the Right are linked to private ownership. There are remaining issues such as land policy and protection, predatory game policy, basic ownership rights and tax policy. Private ownership is deeply rooted in Norwegian culture and in people's consciousness. Right is a strong defender of private ownership, and for a conservative party it is also essential to take care of the values and natural qualities that have been cultivated through generations. It is crucial to avoid people feeling deprived of public governance and to ensure that citizens have a real impact on both the development and enforcement of land policy. This applies both locally and nationally. Right-known mantra about changing to preserve shows that Right has both the will and the ability to take care of the environment, so that future generations can have as much joy and benefit from nature as we have today. Unfortunately, we see many examples of people feeling overwhelmed by public powers. I have had the pleasure of meeting many basic owners in Valdres who want to try out a new model with basic ownership management, the Fullsenn model. 220 landowners in three common have for a long time managed their property in a forward-looking way. It's a big paradox that their successful management makes their property part of the new Wormtjerk National Park. Heidi Sørensen states that the landowners have taken such good care of this area that now the state will take over is a total lack of respect for private ownership and the work these landowners have done for many years. I'm glad the Council of State is going to Valdres tomorrow. I expect him to take the time to visit the landowners in Schrautvål and to present the Fullsenn model. The centre party has previously expressed a positive opinion about the basic ownership rights in this case. Now this is also a testament to whether the Center Party really is a defender of private property law, and whether the party has an impact on government. Another issue that is also one of fundamental ownership rights and private ownership is the predatory policy. Among other things, the aim of the rapprochement was: to calm down the predatory game policy, but the experience gained in the years since the conciliation was concluded shows that one has failed to do so. In many communities within the confiscation zones, a strong sense of having been overcome by the big community is that they have to pay a high price for having viable predatory wildlife populations here in the country. Lack of ability to take out predators who behave threateningly or harm, gives a strong sense of powerlessness. It reduces the quality of life and many communities feel that they have little impact on their living conditions. It is reported that several observed predators, several killed or severely injured dogs and other domestic animals as a result of predatory attacks, without those who are affected, feel that the situation is being serious. Right is the tension of what comes from the government when it comes to the stock target and position of a new predatory game settlement. Right means that the time has come to evaluate the predatory game settlement and carry out a full evaluation of whether the intentions of the predatory game settlement have been followed up. A new prey settlement must be based on acceptance and recognition of the fact that living with predatory game closes in, creates a strain by reducing the quality of life and losing dishes. These privileges must be completely replaced. Last week we got to the right that there was going to be an agreement with Sweden about a green certificate market. It's good, but it's just a shame it's five years late. The agreement, which was largely negotiated in 2005, and which Prime Minister Stoltenberg was slaughtered, is now in place. It's strangely quiet from that edge right now. I had hoped that the Government Party and the Council of State would have used this budgetary management to correct the lifting breaches of 150 small power plants built after 2004 and not included in the transitional arrangements for a green certificate market. 1.2 B.C.E. kr in lost income swirls. Many lose several hundred thousand dollars a year – some also several million. It's very dramatic for those who owe it. Right wants to facilitate the small power industry. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we propose to raise the entry point for the rent tax from 5 to 10 MW. This is a proposal that should be endorsed by all the parties involved in facilitating this industry, and there is still time to correct it in the budget of the year. There have been many questions, and there have been many different and sometimes strange answers. The representative, Erling Sande, is asking for a clear response from the representative, Siri Meling. I want an answer from Erling Sande on why they are voting against a proposal to raise the entry point from 5 to 10 MW.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1282	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1285	As a member of the Business Committee, I have been concerned that good industrial policy and good environmental policy are two sides of the same coin. If we conduct a good environmental policy, we also create long-term, sustainable jobs. The last few weeks, we've got a very good example of this. A few weeks ago, we received the capitalization of Statkraft. This leads to a renewable energy investment programme of 82 billion. kr. Through an active state ownership, we have acquired funds for new renewable energy that we could hardly expect to generate in another way. A short time ago, we received a green certificate in Norway. This leads to additional billions of investments in renewable energy over the years to come. In addition, we have now included in the State budget an environmental technology programme of 300 million. which will highlight pilot projects which have not been well organised for innovation in Norway in the past. Yesterday we learned that we are going to have a holistic review of the energy demand in Norway, so that those who invest in energy both on the production side and on the user side will have long-term framework conditions to work on. This is an industrial lift without parallel since we started oil drilling in the North Sea. Here, we have made it possible for a really heavy investment in new renewable energy that can enable the supply industry and the offshore industry to gradually take positions in markets that last beyond the oil age. We had a lot of hard-to-read regional newspapers on the South, where central actors from National Oilwell and Aker Solutions went out and said that here's what we have to bet on if we're going to get sustainable jobs. We have the competence, the market is there, and with the great industrial lifts that are done with the four things I'm talking about, we've given the offshore industry in Norway a lift to enter a market that they can live off without being dependent on the oil when he starts to fall away. This makes it possible to maintain an industrial competence and to maintain jobs that would otherwise be faced with dramatic changes in 10–15–20 years. It is difficult to imagine a better example of good environmental policy being good industrial policy. Those who have tried to claim something else should now see what the red-green government is doing in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1300	The discussion about the power situation, especially in central Norway, is seeing ever-increasing heights, not least because of very low magazine filling and much higher prices across the country than at the same time last year. We can read the following comments in the media. In a comment article in Stavanger Aftenblad on Tuesday, December 7, we read that: ‘The moon landing will not be ready until 2018 – at the earliest. The gas power plant in Elnesvågen can be ready three years earlier. When a storage site for CO2 is found and approved, no one knows yet. Thus the people of central Norway must hope for mild winters in the years to come. That's how meteorologists can replace politicians. While the batch applications are being replaced by yr.no.» This is what Arnt Even Bøe wrote in his article on December 7. The state politicians in More and Romesdal and South Trondelag have also come on the track and demand that it be equal to the price of power across the country. There is cross-political agreement on this. There are, to a large extent, representatives of the parties who also represent the Stortinge their plural today. The need for short-range power in Central Norway is great. The magazine filling is high-recorded, especially in More and Romesdal. In the last two weeks, magazine filling has fallen by a total of 9 percentage points. This, combined with the fact that the Swedes also have major problems with their nuclear power plants this year, has resulted in Statnett no looking to put spare power plants in standby mode. This supports the Progress Party and believes that the operation of these power plants can remedy the strained situation somewhat. But, the reserve power plant will never be able to fill the same function as a high efficiency permanent gas power plant. Therefore, the Progress Party also wants to open for the start-up of conventional gas power plants, without requirements for cleaning from day one. Industrial power Mid-Norway has extended its concession. Unlike Industrikraft Møre in Elnesvågen, Industrikraft Mid-Norway in Skogn has no CO2 handling requirements. This week, agreement has been reached between Norway and Sweden on a green certificate market that aims to put in place 26 renewable TWh by 2020. Since a good part of this, after all, becomes wind power, the need for safe power availability from a stable supplier becomes even greater. A gas power plant in the Federal Republic can be such a stable factor. It is with interest that we record that Norwegian authorities and Statoil no profile that gas power can become Europe's climate change solution. This is fully in line with Sintef’s report which concludes that gas power in Norway, even without purification, will reduce European CO2 emissions. The government needs to take the situation in Central Norway seriously – gas power is an important and straightforward asset that will improve the situation for both business and private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1336	Carnivores are a theme that affects us to a large or small extent, but on which many of us have a form. Many of us believe that it is wrong for the big community to impose on a small part of the population the great negative consequences of having predators and predatory zones in its vicinity. This reduces the quality of life and the potential for harvesting from nature. The predators, i.e. number of buffaloes, elk, deer, etc., and dog injuries have never been higher than now. Many people have had to stop buffing, and thus the figures may seem somewhat better in some areas, but for example. in Uppland they have increased a lot. Overall, the number of predator damage has increased by 2.4 pst. – in total almost 40000 reported predatory losses. It is also true that within each zone there is also an unfair distribution. Some municipalities have a lot of damage and problems, while others have a little less. Another injustice concerns the areas bordering on Sweden and Finland. Here there are some large flocks with, among other things, wolf who runs both on the Norwegian and Swedish-Finnish side. These must be included in the Norwegian stock target and the number must be reduced. Otherwise, the so-called predator-proof fences are something you had great faith in. In many places these have become a failure, as predators jump over the fence, the current doesn't work, or there's an intrusion on these. I believe that this is a completely misguided measure that destroys the environment with its long and wide streets and metal walls. Otherwise, the emergency court is something that needs to be strengthened. For many, hunting has become an important part of the quality of life, and for many, it has also become part of the industry. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the procurement of predators and to ensure that the decision-making process is as short as possible. There's been a lot of talk about animal welfare in the fall. Animal welfare must also apply to bovine animals that are injured by predators. We haven't heard much about that. Otherwise, there's a lot of talk about housing and living districts. I don't think living districts can be based on predators. Living districts depend on families of children who want to live off, in nature, to do so. If it becomes too many predators, it is very, very few who dare or will live in the districts. Otherwise, I'm afraid that it alerted and wanted new predatory settlement will not make the situation noticeably better for living districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1355	It has been strange to witness the speeches by the government parties on oil activity issues in the northern regions, where, on the one hand, we have the representative Serigstad Valen of SV, who from this pulpit earlier today said that he will stop further activity in the northern regions, while the Workers' Party's representative Arnesen speaks hot to add to the northern part of the country the activity and value creation of a petroleum activity in the areas. It's almost strange that these two represent the same government. They give very confusing and contradictory signals. In my simplicity, I thought they both stood behind Soria Moria II when there were questions about both impact assessment and what is going to happen in these northern areas. I would like to appreciate whether the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Oil and Energy can confirm that this is what is going on, and not the signals that are, among other things. Serigstad Valen has joined the debate today. Then to a line from Erling Sande about transportation support for the districts. I would believe that when he first took up this order and criticized the Right for not being part of it, he had a little order in his own house. In fact, this scheme is not in place. The money that was granted – the 20 million – was only 15 million. kr withdrawn again in the revised version. Now, in the context of the adjustment to the 2010 budget, the entire amount has been withdrawn because the plan has not been notified by ESA. So to the representative Sande: I would expect you to have order of business before you criticised the Right to stand behind a system that is actually not yet approved. I also find it interesting with the glider representative Serigstad Valen has had in terms of energy policy. Is it the case that he wants to phase out the liberalisation of the power market, and is this in the case of a policy behind which the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Government support? And is it, then, that we have to expect a massive expansion of new power in Norway to ensure security of supply? Finally, a question to the Council of State on Green Certificates. When it is possible to build up power in both countries, it is important to stimulate as much expansion as possible in Norway. Today, we have long processing times in the NVE in the case of concessions, despite the fact that the processing capacity has increased. What will the Council of State do to ensure that we reduce the processing time and thereby ensure that Norway receives its share of the teraphragms initiated by the green licence market?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1366	Today's debate shows that it is not possible to change beyond the changes the government itself is putting on the table in next year's budget. That is why I will spend a few minutes dealing with matters that the government has announced will come. With regard to the government's warning of a new energy message, it is clear to the Christian People's Party that a future energy message is an energy message that sees climate and energy as a whole. It is this interaction on which the energy message of the future must be based. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the case information provided by the representative Serigstad Valen in connection with the climate communication. In the run-up to it, the SV's proposal for a double CO2 charge, such as: shall cover the cleaning costs of the gas power station at Fränna. It's in connection with what he's been in the papers. If that's the way to understand it, a doubling of the CO2 tax will only be twice the CO2 tax of the oil companies, but twice the cost of 78 pst. reimbursement by the State because the CO2 tax is below the petroleum tax system today. This means that there will not be an annual budgeting by the state, but at the end of the day it will be the state that will also pay the cleaning costs of any new gas power plant in Møre and Romsdal. But it's not any future generation that is going to pay this cost. Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen wrote to me in a letter dated last week that ‘future generations will bear the bulk of the costs associated with such a climate fund’. The Council of Solheim took Jesus Christ up in the answer to the reply from the undersigned. It was well that God was not satisfied with the ground crew and therefore he sent his own son, whom we are now celebrating in a few days. And then we're going to try to be as good a back team as we can both in one way and the other. For the Christian People's Party, the political drive is that we want to make a difference today that characterizes tomorrow, and therefore we are impatient. We are impatient that there will be no national climate action. We are impatient and will have greater investment in energy saving in households. And we are impatient about the government's announced policy on predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1391	It may not be entirely coincidental that my colleague Bredvold and I are focusing a little on the predatory policy. I dare say that we live in the municipality that has had the longest and largest load. It is the municipality that has also had the longest load with revolving wolf, and it is one of the most exclusive things that can be seen in relation to all other activities in the field. The government is now far within its sixth year, and there have been a few more years since the robberies settlement. In all these years, the discussion, reporting and design of predatory game policies have largely consisted of stock targets and the use of more money on remedial measures. It consists largely of predatory fences. We have not heard a word from the Council of State about what everyone looks forward to: the conflict is increasing, grazing is being introduced and land use and quality of life is being displaced in areas where the concentration of predatory game is now high – rather that the remedial measures, the fences, are total failure and an environmental disaster. Robbery fences as environmental measures are an example of policies in which everything the state and its administration find is ok, while if others had done the same, they would be judged as environmentally hostile. In that way, this socialism is good as something. It is not surprising from SV, but that the Center Party supports it, is something more wonderful. At least there is no credible policy. The Council of State has neglected. He has not fulfilled his obligation to provide information to Stortinget when a policy does not work and gets a completely different outcome than the Stortinget had foreseen. Six years is in this way a long time. The size allowed several other assumptions to underpin their settlement. An evaluation, as requested by the Right, is long overtime. Now it's announced a rapture message, which everyone attends with excitement. But until then, there might be reason to remember what the Storting actually had as a prerequisite and wrote in its settlement that time. Then a two-part objective would have to be maintained throughout the country. I think Bredvold and I see quite clearly that this is where the most things are being pushed. The fact that the nations are warning that the losses in Hedmark are going down suggests that within the areas of high concentration, the industry is gone. The areas with the highest load were to be reduced. Rather, we see a concentration of the load. Conflicts should be mitigated and mitigated. – All very good purposes, on which we see the very opposite development. Then is my question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that the assumptions have been fulfilled, and is that why he has not informed the Storting about the reality out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1404	I just want to start by saying congratulations to the Minister for the Environment for working well during the climate negotiations and to Terje Riis-Johansen for the work on getting the green certificates in place. It is a long-awaited agreement that is now finally in place. It's just to be happy about it. It means the greatest promise of renewable energy deployment. It's so big that it's not right! Let me move on to what we have discussed in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. I think it is important for the debate in general on climate. Recently, a report from the Arnstad Committee was submitted, which looked at the possibility of energy efficiency improvement in buildings. It is one of the most socio-economically profitable investments we can make, the implementation of climate action. They imagine an opportunity to cut 10 TWh out of the 80 TWh that we use to operate in the construction sector. It is clear that it will be possible to cut by 2020 both through regulation and through the possibility of underpinning energy saving measures in the construction sector. They also see that it is possible to save a total of 40 TWh by 2040. This is significant energy efficiency improvement. If we think that the total production of electricity in Norway is 125 TWh, it goes without saying that a cut of 10 TWh first and a total of 40 TWh over a 30-year period is a significant decrease. This goes directly to cut elsewhere. We come from the government parties to follow this up in the work of our committee towards a building announcement, which the government will present. But I also think it is important that we discuss in this regard how we should set up these support schemes. In these times when the electricity prices in central Norway are high and people experience that the power companies are making a lot of money, I think it's trying to get in place, for example. a white licence system – we need to find a better name, power savings certificate or something else – some real power savings schemes that could mean that those who are power producers or on the power generation side can help support the electricity consumption of households, i.e. those of ordinary people, and thus reduce electricity bills. That, I think, must be something that is part of an important debate. There are two other things I want to record very briefly. One is that from our work in the Committee we see the potential for large public emissions reductions. The municipality of Arendal is a climate-neutral municipality because they pay money for their emissions. They pay the allowance price for all emissions from municipal activities. This means that they drastically reduce their emissions because they see that this has a gain: saving emissions. The last thing is that, on the part of the Committee on State Activities, we have asked the government to order a reduction in all fossil emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1417	Two of the review themes in the debate — there were several review themes to the extent of — have been climate and security of supply. In the climate field, it is difficult for most people – and too many – to understand how it is possible now that more than 20 years have passed since the first climate target for Norway was set here, that emissions are much higher than when we started that job. As regards the power situation, especially in central Norway, but also in some other parts of the country, it is asked how it is possible to look at a situation of security of supply in such a well-developed and well-regulated energy sector where regions are faced with a situation of lack of security of supply. Now everyone who has been in charge of the country after the new Energy Act came – in the last 20 years – will be involved and take responsibility for it. But that's a legitimate question. In the climate field, it's like over 70 pst. of the emissions we have are related to emissions from fossil energy use. It is also an energy challenge. This means that we are going to reduce our emissions as quickly and as rapidly as we need, it is, in fact, a strong governance of energy policy that needs to take place. With regard to the power situation, and especially in Central Norway, it is a good example that the market mechanisms themselves do not ensure the supply of energy. It is not enough for the energy authorities to lean back and trust that supply and demand regulate themselves. Stronger energy policy management is required. The answers to both of these two challenges are actually a lot of the same thing. Both in terms of climate and security of supply in Central Norway, stronger energy policy management is required. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed that the Storting should be presented with an energy and climate plan showing how these conversions are to take place in practice, how to make a rapid reduction in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and how to ensure energy supply both in the Bergens region, in central Norway and in Finnmark – whether to electrify in the Barents Sea, etc. It requires planning. It requires not just leaning back and having a blind belief in the market, but actually wanting to transform into a low-carbon society, and wanting to secure energy supply through an active energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1434	Only some summary comments from the debate. First, let me provoke a little bit of the representative Meling's summing up our linecode exchanges, where she doubts the Central Party's willingness to compensate the districts for fuel prices. I have taken the option that is included in the pen of the Right representatives of the Committee. I thought I would quote from the Right saying: ‘These members will point to proposals in the Højres Alternative State Budget in the budget areas of other departments that will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions:’;» One of the indents is: ‘Removal of the line for compensation to the districts for fuel prices – 20,6 million. crowns.’» The point is that a whole target set has the desire to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by applying that bill to the districts, and sees it as a climate action. The representative Lødemel has several important points in his speech when it comes to respect for the protection policy, to prevent people from feeling overwhelmed. It's a signal that I think it's important that we take it with us. We're not going to pursue protection policies using the Burnde method. Here, there should be a good dialogue with those who feel that there is protection in the vicinity. There we will particularly point to the voluntary protection that this government has provided in the field of forest policy – a great success – through free will and good dialogue. I think it's the way to go. For example, in Valdres, it is very possible to enter into a good dialogue with local authorities in order to achieve a protection that everyone can enjoy based on the recordings they have. Robbery policy and the challenges of living and feeding in predatory areas are the subject of several. This is also a recording that we have to take seriously, and that has to come up in connection with the message that comes about predators, where every game gets the chance to come up with its recordings and positions in connection with it. The natural diversity allows living conditions for a range of species. An active agriculture is part of a rich biological deficiency that had not been there. We in the Center Party are occupied with the biological deficiency also at that point, not only when it's about quadricloves and globic acid, but also many other species that live in our nature. Many of them are red-listed and depend on living agriculture. There is nothing in this debate that suggests a holistic alternative to the government's energy and environmental policy, rather on the contrary, there is a glaring response from the opposition. In some areas, the opposition wants more Soria Moria policy, and we have to take that with us. It also contributes to a better policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1457	I think this has been an interesting day so far, and I think – if I may say so – that the opposition has been surprising on the defensive. But what we have been demonstrated is a worrying agreement between the blue-blue parties on a policy that will give rise to a shock to ever-increasing emissions in Norway. Some Keyword around it is: gas power without cleaning requirements, irritation over what is called specular emission requirements, zero offensiveness and attention around renewables, but great concern that the extraction rate on Norwegian pedestal is not fast enough. Then we have received assurances from the Right that the climate agreement is firm. But we haven't got one word about how they're going to get to the huge cuts in transport and land-based industry that they're necessarily going to have to get if their accounts are going to go up. So the right one says you can clean up as you go. But that's not what anyone claims, that full-scale CCS systems are spreading up like toad hats all over the world. Everyone else experiences the same challenges as we do, with overcosts and with technical challenges. There are four–five projects in the world that have funding and that it is realistic to get built over the next few years. Mongstad is one of them. There is simply zero credibility in meeting the climate agreement with full release of gas power policy and a devout desire to clean later. I think it's worrying. So a little trip into the Christian People's Party. The claim that there is no prestige attached to Mongstad for the government and for the Workers' Party is quite special. There are huge sums of money in Mongstad. It is clear that it would be an easy solution to scrape this project a long time ago, because it is complicated, and because it has become more expensive than we thought. And now you can even get cancer by keeping on with amines. But because it's a achievement linked to this, because you have a strong desire to realize the project, you don't. I think the representative Hemdal is fully aware that building CCS facilities on a hot plant, as Mongstad is, is much more complicated than building a new project with CCS, as Industrialkraft Møre's project in Elnesvågen will be. And it would be quite strange if we were to go around and be sad if that project were to come true quickly. But the really big unanswered question in this debate is how the Christian People's Party and the Left, both of whom talk warmly about renewable energy, energy efficiency, natural diversity – all the things that the blue-blue barely mentions with a word in this debate – can go around and wish for a government shift that will bring these two parties – the blue-blue – into the government offices. We have tried to get an answer through this debate. We haven't got that, and then we'll probably keep going around uncertainly until the next budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1470	I almost had to take the floor, because I didn't think it could stand up to what the representative Siri A. Meling said: she thought it was so eye-catching that there was a little rift in the government parties. Now it was the state councils that were challenged on this. I don't know if they want to answer that, but I think it's important to refer to what's in Soria Moria II, when you say there's something interesting about having different angles of incidence. One wants to debate this before concluding. That's why we've been running a long process on these important things. I'm going to refer to what's in Soria Moria II below one bullet point, so hopefully you'll get it with you. It says the following: ‘not open to petroleum activity outside the Lofoten and the West eels during this ageing period. [[North countries VI and VII and Troms II]] The Government will decide whether to carry out an impact assessment on petroleum activities in the context of the 2010 revision of the Management Plan.» It says it's just in 2010, but it's in the spring of 2011, that's what I'm saying. And then I don't think it's any eye-catching that you have a debate ahead of it. That you have different angles of incidence, I think it's quite natural. Then you'll see when you get so far that you conclude. In addition, I have to remind the representative Siri A. Meling that if you had been in government with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, the situation might not have been that simple either, when you know what both the Christian People's Party and the Left had done in that context. I really think you should sweep a little bit for your own door, as it is so often about. That I take the floor and say this, is because it was a little bit to Bendiks H. Arnesen, but I also felt that there was a little bit more to signed during this debate. And then one thing I don't understand. You don't have to look back, but you have to look forward. Government until 2005. I don't understand that you didn't get a lot of grip on what was going on in energy policy. I don't understand that you didn't get a lot of grip on what was going on in transportation, health, municipal economy, etc. No, you weren't worried about that. What you were concerned about was giving taxes. One time I think you have to make a confession. And then I think it's okay that you have these ambitions and you want them in the future as well. Then, in eight years, one had the opportunity to have some cleanup actions in the community economy, etc., which is said, if it had been willing to do so. No, the railway was finished and confused, the roads were finished and confused. And when it came to the municipal economy: the municipalities were almost bankrupt. That's what was the result of a blue, bourgeois policy. If you want an impact assessment, I've also explained here why it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1486	The winter has started with a cold November and a cold December in Middle Norway. Current prices are currently reported in Central Norway as reaching their highest level this autumn and winter, which for ordinary customers means that the price is now approaching 2 kr per kWh. Then it becomes a bit special to hear the representative Holmås talk nice about saving electricity. That's good. The representative Holmås takes up white certificates and talks about how people in central Norway are going to reduce their power consumption. I would like to invite the representative Heikki Holmås to Trondelag. Then he can be with me home to many of the minimum pensioners and many of the lonely caregivers who are now sitting and saving on the current, who are sitting and freezing, who cannot afford, and who are concerned that they are not getting to pay their electricity bill this winter. That's the way it is in Trondelag. I'm very happy that we're going to have a strong focus on how to save power, but it's a slightly different reality you might see from the Storting, compared to how reality is out, and especially in Middle Norway. Both Industrialkraft Møres gas power project in Elnesvågen and Industrialkraft Mid-Norway gas power project in Forests could be important projects to increase regional power generation in Middle Norway. Therefore, the Right has agreed that the first full-scale CO2 treatment plant in Norway funded by the State should be moved from Mongstad to a different and better location. We've pointed to Middle Norway as a natural place. At least we were very happy when, the day after the Right proposed this, we were able to read in Addressavia that the representative Serigstad Valen proposed a gas power plant in Elnesvågen with cleaning, and that this would be financed by the state. Of course, we are not satisfied with his proposal to impose a double CO2 charge on oil companies. But that previously saw gas-fired SV now realize that the lunar landing project is unrealistic in terms of Mongstad, Right looks positive. We're assuming there's a signal that there's a lot of movement in the government. But it is difficult to get wise on SV, because the representative Serigstad Valen says today that the state is still not paying for cleaning, while he wants to finance the cleaning with the CO2 tax. Then I would like to remind the representative Serigstad Valen that it is actually this way in this country that the state has a monopoly on taxes and taxes, and that they use this to finance the government's expenditure. When Serigstad Valen then says that he wants to finance CO2 cleaning on More with a doubling of the CO2 tax, it must mean that it is the State that is going to finance the CO2 cleaning, and will cover this with a doubling of the CO2 tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1520	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, was in there with local administration. He referred to the need for it in connection with the Langesjön or the Ormtjerkamp national park in Valdres. I agree that a good protection requires not only a state but also a local and regional ownership. Overrunning or overdrafting overall local assessments may be outright unwise, even in view of getting the best protection. I have a background as a spokesperson in the municipality of a country and know how it can be learned by a state bureaucrat when one himself is grown up with mountains and nature as a field of work. I'm busy that the combination of research-based and experience-based knowledge absolutely provides the best protection. It is fundamental in a sustainable management of both flora and fauna. Protection does not mean that nature should not be used. In fact, the use of nature is often the basis for self-protection. Therefore, I am pleased that this setting clears up the relationship between mountain government and the State's natural supervision. For the local mountain governments, i.e. the local democratically elected bodies that have added mountain vision, are local democratically anchored brewers, I would say, in many difficult environmental matters. Mountain television is multi-functional. There are people who can do a lot of tasks. It's cost-effective to use them. It reduces traffic in vulnerable areas. Then I would like to stress that this government may have done more than anyone else in the past to create a local administration, with the local administration model for the protection area and national parks. It's going to go to now. There are appointed administrators around the whole country. So I'm aware, as the representative Sande mentioned here earlier today, that it's important now that we get this local management model to work in line with what was meant, so that this becomes real. So I'll ask the council to follow along with it. We have had an issue in connection with the Dovrejell Council, which has been closed. I think it would have been a good idea to transfer all the functions that were in the Dovrejell council to the local administration board. It applies not only to the care of nature, but also to some coordination of social planning and social and economic development. Then we would get a very functional local administration model. Then there are many who have been inside predators. Crustaceans are a discussion theme not least in my own country. There I would say that what is on the government platform, Soria Moria II, is a very tidy and good predatory policy. So if the administration implements it in practice, I think a lot of things work out. And then we have to come back to the Storing when it comes to the stock measures themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1536	The representative Sande used the word "Burning" method. I don't know exactly what he's putting into it. I think Brende would have jumped in the chair if he had heard it. But he's not here to defend himself, so I'll have to try. I don't know if what Sande is responding to is that Børge Burnde was strong for local nutritional development in sheltered areas. He engaged himself quite strongly to get to it. He was the one who introduced voluntary protection, which is now almost the rule of all protection processes. Is that what Mr Sande is responding to? Otherwise, Børge Burnde set in motion extended hunting times, so that you could get more local freedom in order to decide for yourself. Is that what Mr Sande means by the Burne method? Børge Brende started attempts at motorised driving in the outfield, so that you could get a lot more local management there. Is that what Mr Sande means by the Burne method? I mean, at least that's the Burne method. I tried to point out what was the premise of the Robbery Agreement, to which the representative Sande clearly referred when it came to the Burne method. I tried to point out the assumptions. All of the assumptions are broken. I am quite convinced that the Brende method would have been quite different from sitting and waiting for six years to inform the Storting that this is not working. It has actually happened after the Center Party joined the Robbery Agreement through the Soria Moria Declaration. So I would like to have a nomination of which parts of the Burne-method agent Sande is like that. So it might be interesting to have a debate with the representative, Stroem, on fiscal policy, but that's what I think belongs to in the financial debate and not here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1547	The representative of Marthinsen used the opportunity to attack the Right Climate Policy. I would like to remind you, as I mentioned in my post instead, that the government's climate policy was slaughtered by the National Audit Office. I would like to remind you that the only party that was satisfied with the government's climate announcement was the Progress Party. I would like to remind you that it was the Right who got the rainforest bet into the climate agreement. And so far it is the government's only real success in climate policy. I would like to remind you that it was the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that suggested that the government should launch socio-economical measures in the context of climate change already now, and that it was the government parties that voted in favour of that proposal. And we now see the result: an ambitious climate budget. I would also like to remind you that it was the government that imposed a tax on biodiesel, and that it was those who broke the few players we had in this market, and put us back a long way in terms of reducing emissions in the transport sector. It is then quite special to say that it is the Right who has an explanation problem in transport policy, when the reality is that it is the government that has an explanation problem in transport policy. Then to Mongstad. The ambition to clean Mongstad is firm, but it has to be made cheaper. It cannot be irrelevant for this government that it has become twice as expensive per tonne of CO2 to clean Mongstad since last year – it cannot be entirely irrelevant for the representative Marthinsen. We have to try to get to this cheaper and more efficiently than it seems to be at Mongstad. Maybe you need some more time in Mongstad. The ambition to clean Mongstad stands firm, but perhaps it will be a better project if the state enters and begins to land on the moon with a project that integrates purification from day one. That must be an honest and honest position. And I would actually say that our position shows that we have greater ambitions than the government of CCS. We believe that it is possible to capture and store CO2 by 2014, something the State Council of Solheim was informed about in its office this summer – that it was possible in 30 months to extend full scale cleaning to a new gas power plant in Møre. The council said instead that he was not informed that it was possible, but he wanted to welcome all the offers. Well, he's got it presented, and he's obviously rejected it. So the fact that we're going to be unambitious in this, I think it's very special. So to the representative Stroem, who – I would say – in a very unprofessional way starts to talk about that we only prioritized tax laws when we were in government. Let me do another example. We reduced the health cows by 35,000, it's increased by 70,000 during this government. Does the representative think this is a good result? You can ask the representative Stroem about that. My answer will be no. We lowered the taxes for people with low and middle incomes. This government has lowered them for people with high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1577	Siri A. Meling has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1580	I appreciate the fact that the representative is reading from Soria Moria II – and I sincerely hope that the representatives in the Chamber from among others. the governing party SV also listened to what stood in Soria Moria II. I think they might need a rehearsal more than we do from the Right. There is a difference between this government and the Bondevik II government. When the Bondevik II government came to the Stortinget, it spoke with one political voice, unlike this government, who comes to the Stortinget and talks to many political variants of different voices. It's a difference of substance. And as for what Bondevik II got through, one of the first things we did in the north was to say yes to Snow White, which has been a good project for Hammerfest, for the northern part of the country and for our country. Our wish is to be able to do so in Northern Ireland, in Lofoten and in the Western Isles. And it's urgent to get in place, for example. the allocation of new attractive exploration sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1587	Obviously, it's not just the representative Astrup who needs help with the reading. The statement in the Address Paper, to which the representative of Hofstad Helleland is referring, clearly states that «the oil companies must pay», and not the state, which is something Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland has found. I'm going to help the representative of Hofstad Helleland understand this. Firstly, a tax increase in itself will trigger profitability in several climate measures. If the representative of Hofstad Helleland does not understand that, I believe that the Right fraction of the Committee is fully aware of that. If the Right does not believe that there is a difference between a CO2 tax and a direct government funding, I wonder why it was a Right-Registration that suggested a CO2 tax in the first place. Then there is a distinction that the Syse government in its time, 20 years ago, understood, but that has been lost on the road to the Right, along with many other parts of Right policy, such as predator protection, beach zone, etc. There's another debate. Gas power in central Norway is not a quick and short-term solution to the power problems in central Norway. It won't be any faster to build a new gas power plant in central Norway than to put in place new lines, which this government is working on. And it is worth reminding the representative of Hofstad Helleland that it is Røjres Bjørn Lødemel, who sits there so cozy with the representative of Hofstad Helleland, who has been the most pronounced opponent of new line capacity into Middle Norway. It is a little special to hear Right rises above high power prices, when it is the Right Representative of the Energy and Environment Committee who has fought against an increased power supply to the region and who was actually elected to the Storting on the basis of that case, when it is the Right who introduced the free market in the power sector, Right who believes it is ideologically right that prices should fluctuate in this way that the market should be determined, Right who ignored SV's warnings about the power crisis that would come about with the construction of the Worm Lange – the Trumpet Right Through – and Right who brought the investments in the central network down to a minimum. Thus, the representative of Hofstad Helleland does not make any particular impression. It should, on the other hand, do the spaga of its own party. Today we have heard that Mongstad is too slow and unrealistic, we have heard that the management of power prices is good and not good, and we have heard yes and no to new power lines for Trondelag. This is symbol politics, a game for the gallery and an attempt to greet the people of Trøndelag from a party that perhaps more than anyone else should see themselves in the mirror, considering what has led to this situation our home country is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1602	The representative Erling Sande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1605	I received a direct invitation from the representative, Gundersen, to remind the representative and others that the previous government, for which the Right was the basis, boasted of having protected the most area in this country. If a traveler travels around the areas, which I encourage the representative to do, one still today will find people there who were quite dissatisfied with the processes that were then leading. The previous government, with the Right, which today criticises the government of the coastal zone policy, sends out letters where a straw into the beach zone, not only in the press areas, but throughout the country, and asked the statesmen to be far more strict on it, which caused considerable irritation around. We should also bear in mind that right-wing animals significantly more predatory during the predatory settlement – of which the centre party was not a part – and significantly more bear in this country, which would lead to much more conflict than we experience today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1610	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1613	The representative Marthinsen complains that the blue-blue hardly mentions energy efficiency. It's a little special that one who represents the government comes with such an announcement, when Norway is the only country in the EEA area that has no energy saving plan. I agree that an additional measure is important, and we see a lot of measures that have been put in place specifically by private people. We see in particular that air-to-air heat pumps are now installed in most houses, so the market works, at least there as we see that the power prices are high. But when it comes to the challenge that Marthinsen is facing, does this mean that the representative Marthinsen will join the intention of the representative's proposal on this subject under consideration in the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1620	This has been an interesting debate with a clear gap in the government parties, culminating in a reprisal by the representative Serigstad Valen towards the Right and the other parties in the former Bondevik government. I have to say that when Snorre Serigstad Valen talks about political spaga, you have to listen, because he's good at that. Then I also need to clarify what the Right has said in the Transport and Communication Committee, since the representative from Sogn and Fjordane was very concerned that we had gone against the compensation scheme for the Districts of Fuel Prices. As Siri A. Meling said quite accurately, we did it because there was no legal support for the scheme so far, and that ESA has so far asked so many questions about the scheme that the money that has been granted for the current year has actually been withdrawn in two rounds. Since the representative was so willing to refer our remarks, but forgot to refer everything, I have to include the last section: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right refer to the fact that this compensation scheme is still not in place, one year after the launch of the Government Parties. These members think it would be impossible to establish the arrangement according to. EEA legislation and therefore opposes the proposed allocation of the scheme.’» And so, since I have nevertheless taken the word, two words about the Right attitude to lines in Hardanger and in Middle Norway versus wiring. As a batch, the right has never taken a decision on this question. What we have pointed out over and over again is the deficit in the democratic process in this, and which, in the opinion of this representative, has led to the somewhat unfortunate situation in which we have come into, and in which we should perhaps remedy it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1633	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1636	It's fine that the representative Astrup is busy with the climate, but then we're also a little bit sad that it's so hard to see his commitment to the Right Alternative Budget. I think it's good with projects that make it possible to build new power plants with CCS, but if we're going to have a chance to reach the 2-degree target, we also have to be able to clean up several of the major emission points that we already have. The world’s largest emission point emits more than the nation of Norway. That's why it's hugely important to develop technologies that can also be linked to existing emissions, like we do at Mongstad. It's great that the opposition engages in CCS and participates in the debate with life and lust. Now they even claim that they have greater ambitions than the government. I have to say for my own part that I think it is a good and positive development, as CCS was hardly a concept in political Norway before the government change in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1645	The representative Nikolai Astrup has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1648	Yes, large emission points must be cleaned. So the right goes in order for us to develop technology at TCM. The question is what value it has for the world. If the first full-scale plant realised by Norway were to become in 2020, would it not have been better if it had been realised in 2014? That's our point. That's why we think we have more ambition than the government at this point. We want to deliver something concrete, and, as far as I know, the government has not been able to clean any of the gas power plants they have told them to clean, and that in itself was the reason why the government survived its first months. So to the representative Serigstad Valen, who is very concerned about how to balance a support for a sewage treatment plant in central Norway. He wants to double the CO2 charge. It'll give a proceeds of a net of 1 billion. kr. As far as I know, it is a very small and limited contribution to a cleaning process, but is of course a contribution in the right direction. The question is whether the state should be involved and take responsibility for realising this quickly, whether we should be able to make that contribution to the world, or whether we should leave it alone and wait until 2020 to get it in place. I also find it interesting with Serigstad Valen who attaches great importance to the representative Bjørn Lødemel, considering that the government has a majority to do what it wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1660	The representative Serigstad Valen sometimes has a point of view that I'm actually behind. He seems to have logic in part of his assessments. But when he goes to the degrees of frontal attacks on the Right and in particular on the representative Linda Hofstad Helleland this afternoon, I think there is a flaw in his logic. When the representative of Hofstad Helleland talks about the high electricity prices in Trøndelag and in central Norway and the problems it brings, not only for industry, but also for ordinary people, it's not just sending a message home. It's actually the facts, it's serious! A final check on Nord Pool shows that the current price at this moment in the East is 68 øre per kWh, while in Middle Norway it is NOK 1.22. There's a jump from yesterday to today, and then it continues tomorrow. This is clearly because there is some shortage of supply. When I talk about shortages in supply, I would say that most come from Sweden. We have a deficit in Middle Norway of 6-8 TW in a normal year. The Swedes have made their way so that we can save it reasonably well. They've actually gone so far that last week they started up the old oil power plants, which use six tons of oil an hour. They're so old that they had to call pensioners to run them. The power plants are driving the Swedes today to remedy the power crisis in Central Norway. And then we're going to be so holy that we can't have any emissions from a gas power plant that we've installed and made ready to supply power to business and other customers in Central Norway! I don't know what kind of expression I'm going to use on this, but I think it must be some kind of skin sanctity. Even last year I had a electricity bill for January and February of NOK 35,000 on a regular farm. I can do it enough because I have a big paycheck, but there are a lot of people who don't do such a power bill very well. I'm afraid that's the same thing for November and December this year. I'm going to do it too, but I know a lot of people are struggling, and it's not just individuals. We have an example from the horticultural industry at Frosta, in the North-Trøndelag, where more people have now given up. They're not actually doing it. Then I think it is a matter of government not taking any action in that connection. Do you want all the businesses in Central Norway to die out? Or do you want there to be a level playing field for Middle Norway and the rest of the country? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1671	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1674	The representative Marthinsen had a visit to me in a previous post. But it was so that it was the representative Marthinsen himself who said in the line change with the undersigned that they had no prestige attached to Mongstad. These are her own words and not mine. When you call cleaning a gas power plant for a moon landing, I am of the opinion that this is demanding for the government. Technology was to be developed. It was also a hot plant in 2006. It shouldn't come as a surprise. What's surprising is the cancer hazard of amine technology. The Christian People's Party has great respect for this. But it is the government – both by the representative Marthinsen and also by the representative Serigstad Valen in the press – who says that there is no defeat either for SV or for the Workers' Party if you get cleaned elsewhere, before Mongstad. That's new words.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1681	This is too good an opportunity to let go – I have to make an article. A lot has been said, I'm not going to repeat it. But I'm going to sum up a little bit from the Progress Party, because the problem in energy and environmental policy is often that this government represents four to five years of postponement in the important issues. The mid-Norway power lines were supposed to be realised in 2010–2011, we heard in 2005. Now one says it's going to be realized in 2015. Mongstad was supposed to be in place in 2014, now it's 2018 or later. Green certificates had a five-six year delay. The same has a hat on the kerosene message. When you look at the energy message, I am pleased today when NTB reports that the government is now working on an energy message. This is very good. All praise to the government for that, because it's a fundamental turnaround in relation to the signals the government gave just a few years ago. Then it was making an energy message just bureaucracy, while now there is something good. Give it a hand! But I have to ask if it is not influenced by the approach of invasion, so today you are told that the energy message is coming, while one week ago the Energy and Environment Committee gave its opinion on a communication on the state of energy of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. Then the government parties said no, because you don't need one. On Thursday we are going to have a debate in this Chamber, where the government parties are going to say that the Riis-Johansen Council has said today is needed, though not needed. And then it will come anyway – just as we experienced when the opposition called for a message about web policy. There was no need for two years before the Hardanger case reached the government, and one would nevertheless send an online message. This is not how one should pursue energy policy. Therefore, one should have provided an energy message and a petroleum message a long time ago, in the same way as one presents an environmental message every two years, so that one does not use the budget debates to discuss overarching things, but that one actually has a strategy and rather uses the budget debates to ensure that funding follows the objectives that one has set. The representative of Marthinsen called for the Energy Efficiency of the Advance Party. Then I just have to remind the representative, Mr Marthinsen, that the Committee has actually discussed a proposal from the Progress Party on energy efficiency improvement and the principles for supporting it. So the fact that you have not been very well involved in committee work shows that you are perhaps just trying to get cheap points in this debate. Finally, the power situation in Central Norway shows that one does not have sufficient control over energy policy. I think it's a little strange when the government runs over two mobile gas plants, that one treats them as if they're made of candles, so if one starts them early, they'll be used up and have no effect later in the year. I also think it is strange that someone is unable to take a real debate on the project that Industrikraft Møre has in Middle Norway. It is not useful when SV goes out and says they should double the CO2 tax, which is not realistic, in order to finance full-scale sewage treatment plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1699	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has also asked for the floor. The President makes it clear that the time for the first part of the morning meeting is really over. The President gave the floor to Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, but noted that the Christmas ounce of the Storting cannot be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1704	There was a violent attack on the Right from the SV's side, and giving the Right to blame for the power situation in Middle Norway falls on its own unfairness. It's very special that there are representatives from the government parties who are trying to get away from their responsibilities and who from this pulpit are trying to blame the opposition parties for their own political disclaimer. This will be in the driest layer. Had I had longer speaking time, I should have read out all the suggestions that the Right has promoted in recent years, and that have been consistently voted down by the government parties. If I had had a longer speaking time, I should have read the letter of reply from the Minister of Energy to a letter sent in ours, asking if the Council of State could comment on all the proposals that have come from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV locally in Central Norway, because they share the concerns of the Right. The Council of State replied to reject all the proposals made locally by the Government Parties. It is also a little special when we hear the Prime Minister commenting on the power situation in Central Norway in the news of the day, that it is the County rapporteur in the South-Tronde Team who represents the opposition and criticises his own government. I think that might say a little, and I also think the representative Serigstad Valen should take note of that. When Serigstad Valen says that he wants to finance CO2 cleaning on More with a double of the CO2 tax, it must mean that it is the State that is going to finance CO2 cleaning, and will cover this by doubling the charges on the base. When Serigstad Valen goes on to say that it'll only cost 3.8 billion. to clean a gas power plant on Møre, he stresses at the same time that the Right's proposal makes sense by agreeing that there should be no doubt about the full scale of the sewage treatment plant. Maybe he also sees that it's in the driest layer when it now costs 20-25 billion. So it's going to be four times as much. I also think this is a bit of a special debate, and that SV is now more concerned with balancing the budget than being offensive in environmental policy. It is a bit clever to listen to a debate on offensive environmental and power policies in this country, when the government parties' answer is to blame the opposition. When you're so little visionary and have so little to come with when it comes to your own suggestions, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1726	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Size now pauses until noon. 16:00. [[Fotation, see page 1732]] The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 13.49. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 16
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1738	The President first makes it clear that, after she has reason to believe, voting is likely to take place in a few minutes on a postponement proposal. The size goes on on today's map, no. 35, and have come to
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1754	The first speaker is Mr Korsberg, who wishes to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1757	I am in favour of proposal No. 1, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The proposal is that the matter be postponed and sent back to the Presidentship of Storting, among others. in order to be able to make a legal assessment of the Constitution § 97. The presidency has had a very short time to deal with this matter, and as is evident from the proposition, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether this is in accordance with the Basic Law, Section 97. We believe that in all cases dealt with in Stortinget, we need to use what is necessary for proper treatment and, where appropriate, to use the instruments that the Stortinget has, for consultation and for collecting recordings, etc. We believe that in this case the presidency has been using for a short time. The matter came very late to Stortinget. That is why the Progress Party has then promoted this proposal, which we have also promoted in the presidency and which was voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1764	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1767	It is then a united presidency, minus the Øyvind Korsberg of the Progress Party, that seeks to deal with the matter. Let me just briefly say what the matter is. Thus, this does not apply to the new pension scheme for large-scale representatives elected from last autumn, but to adjustments to the existing schemes to the adopted changes in the social security system. These adjustments shall apply from 1 January 2011, when the main features, as is known, of the pension reform also enter into force. For the purposes of calculating pensions and in the interests of equality between the different groups, it is important that all the adaptations to the new legislation enter into force at the same time. So the question of the relationship to the Constitution § 97. There's no new question, because it was assessed in the original Pensions Commission for Population Security in general, i.e. under the name of the Johnsen Committee. It was assessed by the sample set up by the previous enlargement in order to assess the specific plans for large-scale representatives, members of the government and the Supreme Court, and it has been assessed in this context by the Ministry with the advice of the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs Department, and finally by the Presidency. So in our opinion, there is a good basis for decision-making to take a position on this issue based on the advice available. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1778	No more have asked for the floor for the postponement proposal. The President thinks it's okay that we go to direct voting, without making any further calls. Voting on deferral proposals
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1786	Proposal No. 1, from Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Advancement Party, says: ‘The treatment of Prop. 19 L is deferred, and the case is sent back to the Presidentship of Storting for, among others. to be able to make a legal assessment of Section 97 of the Constitution.» [[2010-2011]] As far as the President has registered, none of the other parties support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1802	That means that we continue to deal with case number. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1805	First a little bit about the story – not that long. On 10 December last year, the Grand Duchy adopted a request to the Government to submit proposals for new legislation on pension schemes for depositors, members of the Government, judges of the Supreme Court, ombudsman and governor based on the guidelines drawn up in the Johnsen Committee's position, Document No. 19 for 2008-2009. Moreover, this sample, where all parties were represented, proposed new pension schemes for these groups based on the broad lines of the new social security scheme, also called modernised social security. The new arrangements were to be applied to new representatives and members of the government from the autumn of 2009 and to the Supreme Court judges, the Civil Ombudsman and the National Auditor appointed after 1 January 2011. The government's proposal does not at this stage include any proposal for new pension schemes for large-scale or state councils. The Ministry of Labour has previously announced its own proposal in spring 2011. I have to add that I then expect the government to deliver this proposition in such a good time that it will be possible to get a good and proper handling of the matter in the spring 2011 session. Nor does the proposal contain a bill on a pension scheme for a national auditor. Today, the salaries and pensions of the National Auditor are determined by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. The majority of the Presidency proposes that the National Auditor's pension scheme be laid down in the National Audit Office Act, with the same adjustments proposed for the other specific pension schemes, i.e. its incorporation into the law and not the treatment of the presidency on a case-by-case basis. In the setting, two main types of legislative changes are proposed. Firstly, the specific pension schemes for Supreme Court Judges, Civil Ombudsman and National Auditor are terminated with effect for those appointed after 1 January 2011. In other words, new Supreme Court judges will be members of the State pension fund and have their pension calculated in accordance with the general rules on public service pension. So from then on, these groups will have the same vesting time and old-age pension method that applies to other government employees. Secondly, it proposes adaptations to the existing arrangements for the adopted changes in the social security system. This also applies to the representatives of the State and the State. These adjustments shall apply from 1 January 2011, as the main features of the comprehensive pension reform known to take effect. Both for the purpose of calculating pensions and in the interests of equality between the different groups, it is important that the adaptation to the new legislation enters into force at the same time. The adaptations consist in the introduction of life expectancy adjustments to the acquired rights — it is also, as is well known, a key element of modernised public health. This means that an individual's age pension is adjusted for changes in the average life expectancy of the population. If the overall life expectancy increases, this may lead to a lower annual age pension. An individual guarantee is therefore also introduced to ensure that the minimum payment is paid for what you have earned. Thus, for full-earned wholesalers within the existing scheme, a pension of 66 pst is guaranteed. of the compensation determined at the time of withdrawal of the old-age pension. New rules on pension regulation are also proposed. This is often referred to as indexation in the context of modernised public health. In all those special schemes, the pension is currently fixed as a certain percentage of the remuneration for the job or position in force at all times, i.e. if the remuneration of the depositors increases, the pension of retired representatives increases accordingly. So that's the current system I'm describing here. After the new system, pensions paid each year are to be regulated in line with the general wage growth in society, with a deduction of 0.75 p.p., as adopted for old-age pensions in the social security system and general public occupational pension schemes. The Ministry of Justice's legal department has assessed whether such conversion would be contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law § 97. For persons already receiving an old age pension, the Law Department concluded that the issue posed significant doubts and considered that it was uncertain what the conclusion of any judicial review would be. The law department was all the same. ‘reliable to assume that the amendments in question must be presumed to be in line with the non-return ban in the Grundgesetz § 97 in view of the serious societal considerations underlying the recent years of the review of pension systems and the unfortunate aspects of the assumption that the specific groups in question have a particularly protected position’. To put it another way, the Ministry of Justice believes that the Department of Law is able to take a stand on the following questions: Should our pensions be regulated according to particularly favourable rules in relation to popular rights, or should they not? That's what the constitutional question really applies to. It may also be argued that the grossing-up pension has a special position, because it is laid down by law how to regulate the pension scheme for grossing-up representatives. For the public's sake, this was supposed to happen through annual social security negotiations. One can discuss whether the term ‘negotiations’ really covers, but at least no annual regulation was laid down. So there's a certain difference, but the question is whether you want to process that difference to be to the favor of the populace at the expense of other groups. So I mean no, and there is a large majority in the presidency behind it. We also believe that a historical comparison between the annual wage growth of grossing-up representatives, judges, Supreme Court judges and the average wage growth in society shows that these groups do not have a basis for expecting a significantly higher wage trend than elsewhere in society. Nor shall it be disregarded that the new regulatory regime could involve a limited loss compared to the current system. However, a limited loss for smaller groups cannot have an impact on the implementation of general legislative reform. It has also been stated by the Supreme Court in connection with the plenary judgment in the case of the shipowner's cavalry, as it was known during that court's proceedings. For the sake of fundamental law, considerable emphasis must be placed on the fact that these groups have advanced positions in the Norwegian governance system, and that it would be unfortunate from a social point of view if we, including the members of the government, were to maintain a more favourable regulation of our occupational pensions than would apply to the rest of the population. This could undermine the acceptance of the necessary restructuring of the pension system and weaken the legitimacy of the entire pension reform. In addition, such special treatment of limited groups in key positions could weaken overall confidence in the management system — in policy, in a different way. On this basis, the majority of the presidency believes that the introduction of the new regulatory rules does not conflict with the Constitutional Act § 97, and I recommend the suspension on this basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1837	We have now voted in favour of the postponement proposal we have promoted, and then it is only right for me to give it the signal that we are going to vote against the setting as it is available. Since we have not had good time to deal with this matter, I will explain in more detail why we believe that it should have been postponed. It is therefore dealt with in the presidency – and in the presidency there are two parties that are not represented. It has been brought up reasonably quickly on the map, and then there is also a limited possibility for those parties that are not represented in the presidency to go into the matter. Then, as I said in connection with the postponement proposal, you have to use the time you think is necessary in a case to get it well treated. In our group, we have not had time – as I argued – to have proper treatment. It might have been natural in many ways to have a hearing, and also to get other recordings than from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice. There are many good and competent legal environments to assess several aspects of this case. So you haven't had the opportunity to do that. One year ago, the government was given the task of bringing this matter to the attention of the government. One year was spent. And then you can ask the question, why do you spend one year? Is it because the matter is difficult, or is it because you have – maybe you can use the expression – the ‘slight’ of the government? If the matter is difficult, there is every reason for the Storting to spend a longer time dealing with the matter. If the second is the case, that you've spent one year because you've been sold to the government, I think that's all reason to ask questions about the way the government has dealt with this matter. In the next case, one can also see that an overall opposition is criticising the government for having come too late with the case to the Stortinget, so it was dealt with quickly in the presidency. What is natural when you deal with a matter is that you go in and out of your remarks, and if you had read the comments on this matter, you would see that we are on our special remarks, and the Christian People's Party is on its remarks. Many of those comments are in fact common. But there was no way to get there when we dealt with it in the presidency. The size of the drug is not unusual in dealing with issues of the Constitution. You've done it a number of times, and you've done it with mixed success, to be careful. Three times this year there has been a conflict with the Constitution. This should lead to a careful reflection of when the warnings from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice are, after all, as clear as they are. I don't think the Stortinget's earned to get into conflict with the Constitution, to say it like that, a fourth time. I don't think the Stortinget is worth it, and you should have spent a lot more time investigating that question. This is why we have promoted this proposal. That was voted down, and then we will of course also vote against the vote. In conclusion, I would just like to say that when, in the spring, you bring a law to Stortinget on a new pension scheme for depositors, I expect it to come so early that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to have a proper handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1853	Before Dag Terje Andersen gets the floor, the president will draw attention to the fact that the computer system is not working at the moment. This means that we also do not have speaking time, and that we are running a manual voice list.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1856	I asked for the floor just to agree with the rapporteur's thorough review of the history and the basis for making a decision on the matter we now have to deal with. It is correct, as the rapporteur, Mr Foss, has said, that it is in no way the first time we are discussing these questions. In fact, the size has asked the government to submit a proposal for adaptation because we have closed the old pension scheme for large-scale investors, and as a result it follows that transitional arrangements are natural. The relationship with the Basic Law is discussed in the documents – twice the Johnsen Committee – and in the setting as it now exists. It would be quite special if it were to be interpreted as a violation of the Constitution that the Stortinget decides that the Stortinget's pensions are to be regulated as for other people. So we do not intervene in the pension basis or the pension rights of former contributors, but we take a decision on how to regulate pensions in the future. It is mentioned in the document that some people can see it as unfavorable that one not only follows the development of the deposit, but receives a pension regulation based on a wage development minus 0.75 pst. It's not necessarily that every year it's going to be a lower wage trend for the big business representatives than it is for the old system. So in any case where the compensation of the Storting is not increased, but it's a positive paycheck, the Stortinge pensioners will still have a positive development. That means we're going to switch to a system that's more predictable and comparable to the system that applies to other pensions. It has been important for the presidency to discuss thoroughly both on this occasion and, as I said, on previous occasions the relationship with the Constitution. I think there is reason to stress that when such a broad majority behind the presidency position concludes that we feel that we are on a safe ground in relation to the Constitution, it is precisely on the basis that it would be considered unreasonable if one were to claim that the representatives of Storting have a different and safer constitutional protection than that of the rest of the population. That, then, is the basis for the presidency's recommendation, which I recommend, in addition to the rapporteur, that we support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1867	It is now a year since the Stortinget took the request decisions that mandated the government to submit proposals for new legislation for the pension schemes to large-scale representatives, government members, Supreme Court judges, civil ombudsman and national auditor. The government has therefore had time to prepare the necessary legislative changes that must be in place before 1 January 2011. Today's case was promoted by the government on 19 November, and the Presidency and the Labour and Social Committee had to give their opinion within two and a half weeks, so that the Storting could deal with the matter before the New Year. The Christian People's Party believes it is highly critical that the government presents matters to the Storting with such a short deadline. As the case rapporteur, I assume that the government is promoting the announced legislative proposal on new pension rules for depositors with longer periods of time, so that the Stortinget has the possibility of a more sound procedure. So to the Constitution § 97. The Christian People's Party already asked in the County Pensions Committee questions about constitutional protection and felt that this should be clarified. The estimates of the legislative department, as set out in the proposal, reinforce the perception that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. It is serious when the Department of Law states: «After this, we have to note that for those with special occupational pensions who are already taking out a pension, the question of the relationship between the change in question and the Basic Law § 97 raises considerable doubts. We are uncertain as to what the conclusion of any judicial review will be. For our part, we are inclined to assume that the changes in question must be presumed to be in line with the ban on retirement set out in Section 97 of the Constitution, considering the serious social considerations underlying the recent years of the review of pension systems, and the unfortunate aspects of the assumption that the specific groups in question have a particularly protected position.» In a short time, the Supreme Court has ruled on three different cases in which the Storting has passed laws that have subsequently proved to be contrary to the Constitution § 97. The opinions of the law department in the present case indicate an even stronger doubt than was the case in the previous cases. The Christian People's Party believes that it would therefore be an advantage if the Stortinget had asked for the Supreme Court's judgment prior to the legal proceedings. However, we have not heard about this. Since the Law Department, despite its doubts, concludes as it does, the Christian People's Party has found it difficult not to base its conclusion. We agree that it would be difficult to defend if the groups mentioned in this proposition were to have a particularly protected position in relation to other groups of occupational pension schemes. If, in retrospect, the Stortinge has again acted contrary to the Constitution, it should also have consequences for some other groups of occupational pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1883	Storting's pensions have been an important issue for SV for a long time, and we are very happy that we are now getting cleaned up and getting comparable principles for the pension of the big business representatives and others. It also applies to the adaptations to the old scheme, which have to comply with the same rules as those of other occupational pensions. The other occupational pensions were dealt with in Stortinget in ours. At that time, the question of basic law was also dealt with, and it was concluded in the same way as with the protection of supplementary pensions under the Basic Law. At the time, a broad majority joined the changes made to the occupational pension schemes for other groups. That's why it's a seaworthy thing that the Great Government's pensions have to be regulated and changed in the same way that other occupational pensions have been, after the regimes of popular security have also changed. It is absolutely impossible to imagine a situation in which, according to the Constitution, the pensions of the Stortinge, the pensions of the government and others of the best pension schemes in the country should have a better protection than other pensions, and that we should, on our own initiative, protect our own pensions more than we protect other people's pensions. I'm happy with the changes that we're now making. I look forward to the changes that we will also make in future retirement. One of the appeal points when on many occasions SV has also been critical of increasing gross wages and salaries, has been that we have looked at the whole package of wages and pensions together in a way. We have seen that gagging representatives have had an unfairly good order in relation to other groups. Now we get a pension scheme that is well adapted both to the old scheme and, hopefully, to the new scheme. It becomes a more pure occupational pension scheme with a building block model, which we are going to deal with for spring. These principles must, of course, be based on them, as they have been applied when we have dealt with other people's occupational pensions. SV agrees with what is on the table today, and believes that we are dealing with this matter in accordance with the same principle that we dealt with the matter of occupational pensions in the spring of 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1896	Just a little bit of history for Karin Andersen. It is true that SV has repeatedly addressed changes in the pension system, but let me say that from the outset it has been provided by a majority of the Stortinget, when the public pension commission was set up, that there also had to be consequences for the specific pension schemes for flooding and government. In the first message of modernized popular security, which was promoted by the Bondevik II government, where I was one of the senders, we also entered a rather careful section in which we suggested that it was natural that the Storting would follow this up, because it would not be appropriate, perhaps, that a government proposed changes to the Storting pension system – not for the government either. That's why it was just a hint. So the process went on, and the Presidency of the Great Britain set up a sample to follow this up in the last period. So there's been some continuity and some logic in this. It is true that the changes have to follow a modernised public confidence, and therefore it is also important that these provisions be amended now. So to the question of whether the presidency has had too little time. Well, the two issues that have been raised here are lifestyle adjustment and indexing, i.e. wage development minus 0.75 pst. These are the two main elements of modernized popular fear. They've been evaluated by lawyers at the highest level when the public interest was implemented and investigated. There have been hearings about it. For the Storting, it was the subject of an investigation in which all parties were represented, including those not represented in the presidency now – so they have participated in that assessment. It was only the Progress Party that had a different opinion. I will not comment on that, because the Progress Party has had a different view of the regulation of popular fear from the very beginning. So you could say that the annual regulatory index has adopted the previous increase. Once the Storting has adopted it, you can discuss whether it will then be natural for the Storting itself to say that no, for us there should be a different regulation. Let me hang it a little bit in the air. So the conclusion is that the majority of the presidency believes that we should have the same regulation as the other people's rights. So you could say that the Law Department says that it's uncertain what the outcome will be. That's what the Law Department says almost always, but they still recommend a solution. Here they have recommended this. The representative of Korsberg was well aware of this and said that there are many competent legal environments in Norway. I fully agree with that. When it comes to constitutionalism, I have to say that the Storting represents the assembly that is actually going to do it, and in this context, the question of assessment is not really very complicated. Do we want a specially protected position for the pensions of former government representatives and former members of the government, or do we not want it? Taking into account that the case has also been investigated over two and a half years only with regard to the pensions of members of the general government. There is no urgent debate on the two issues at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1905	I will not spend much time on this matter, which largely deals with Storting's own matters, but only join in the assessment made by the rapporteur of the Constitutional Law, which has also been included in our billing proposal. I have noticed the need and wish to have a good time to deal with the next matter. In this regard, let me just remind you that there is a certain connection between these issues, and that it was necessary for us to have a decision attached to the public occupational pension scheme adopted in June before we could proceed with this matter. As I said, I have noticed the need for better time to deal with the next case, which also contains many demanding issues to be considered, including: the age limit for withdrawals, transitional arrangements in relation to early withdrawals, etc., and whether to have a defined contribution or defined benefit scheme, which are technically demanding assessments with which we have started working. But as I said, I have recorded the need to get better time when the next case comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1912	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1741]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1928	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1935	The first speaker, Mr Henriksen, will be given the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Trette Trettebergstien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1938	The Labour and Social Committee has addressed changes for some specific pension schemes, which mainly follow the principles of the State Pension Fund Act. This concerns the government lawyer, head of Labour Law, ballet dancers, song soloists and cross singers at the Norwegian Opera & Ballet. Furthermore, the Committee has examined changes to the pension scheme for escorts in the EEAS. The changes are based on the fact that the regulation of the old-age pension during payment for all these groups is carried out — to use a popular political expression here — as for most people from 1 January 2011. However, there has been a need for slightly different adjustments in the case of lifestyle adjustment, individual guarantee, vesting time and retirement age. The Advocate-General and the head of the Labour Court — appointed after the new year — will be covered by the ordinary public occupational pension scheme of the State pension fund with life-adjusted and individual guarantee. Only the special rules on vesting time are retained, and then only for those who are in employment before the New Year. Dancers and singers also receive living adjustments as in the State pension fund, but retain their retirement age, and the individual guarantee is adapted to their specific performance rules. For escorts in the EEAS, special rules on entitlement to pensions, vesting time and benefit are maintained as a net uncoordinated scheme. In order to follow up these adaptations to the new age pension in public health, I hereby recommend the legislative changes proposed in Act No. II, VI, VII and VIII referred to in the position of the Labour and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1960	Let me first explain why the Advance Party is going against the attitude that we are dealing with here today. This is due to the one and only the limited time limit we have had to deal with the matter. I find it a pity that you add up to a race in Stortinget where you are sent a case that is sent to a committee, and where you get under one week to read and get involved in the matter. Then I hear that the administration, those who work on this, says that these are simple adjustments – not the big political thing about it. It is possible, but I recall that the Committee sent a letter to the Presidency on 1 December of this year stating that it has been noted that it is not clear from the proposition whether the proposed adaptations involve changes in reality or merely technical adaptations to the new general pension legislation. That was also the reason why the Presidency chose to send parts of the proposal to the Scientific Committee for consideration. If the proposition is not clear, and that is the reason why it is sent to a trade committee, while the trade committee is not given the opportunity to read the content and to address the matter well enough, but is only told that this has no real changes, I respectfully feel that it is a bad way to maintain democracy. I think that the best way to ensure democracy is for each representative to have the opportunity to address the issues before taking decisions. That is the reason why the Advance Party has chosen not to go into this matter, but that we are voting against the attitude as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1969	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1745]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1985	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e1994	We are currently processing the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Agency for 2009. As never before, privacy is being discussed. That is good, because it gives increased awareness of privacy as a fundamental right and ensures the digestion of the important work of the Data Protection Authority and the Subject. Technological developments challenge privacy: more information is stored and it is increasingly easier to search stored data. Protecting privacy does not mean turning the clock back. It's probably said from this pulpit before, but I'm saying it again: the Internet has come to stay. The benefits of being able to deliver the tax return electronically, apply for loans from the online bank, or use the Register of Cancer, to mention something, are great for each individual and at the same time bring great social benefits. For a number of good purposes, it is necessary to store and share personal data. However, any new intervention must be proportionate and based on an overall impact assessment. The Ministry warns against trying to resolve purely efficiency reasons and less pressing problems by putting privacy aside. It is an assessment to which an overall committee subscribes. The Data Storage Directive is mentioned in the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority for 2009. The vision of the working party is known. We believe that the bill that came Friday represents a healthy balance between the interests of privacy and society's need for access to traffic data in the investigation and prosecution of serious crime. The Data Storage Directive represents both an intervention in and a strengthening of privacy. Network service providers are subject to a storage obligation, while at the same time the requirements for the provision of traffic data are strengthened from the current situation. In 2009, the Data Protection Authority carried out nearly 20 pst. more inspections than one year before. The control activities are an important contribution to the enforcement of the Data Protection Act and must be given priority. Unfortunately, the checks reveal extensive regulatory violations, and the Committee has noted in particular the concerns of the Data Protection Authority about non-compliance in smaller municipalities and small businesses. The wide international work of data protection is also of great importance. In particular, the EU is an important precursor of data protection standards and rules. It is therefore important that the European Data Protection Working Group has received observation status. Since 2005, the government has increased the operational budget of the Swedish Data Protection Authority by approximately 45 pst. It's given room for increased activity. In 2009, the Data Protection Authority established the guidance service to provide advice to persons who, for various reasons, wish to have personal data deleted on the Internet. Children and young people are a particularly vulnerable group. The annual report points to a new issue: that parents publish information about their children on the Internet in order to foster sympathy in their own child protection or child sharing cases. The Committee considers that there is a need for action in this area. Last year I took note of the importance of data protection acting in a way that strengthens confidence in supervisory judgement and independence. This year, too, we have unfortunately seen examples of the opposite. I would like to mention here the statements of the supervisory director at the time that it is only a matter of time before the police will demand that the contents of all telephone calls be stored. It's a claim it's not cover for. The opinion is only suitable for spreading unnecessary fear and undermining the confidence of the Data Protection Authority. The Committee takes note of the fact that the objective of the Data Protection Authority is to communicate positions in a clear manner, which are not at the expense of seriousness and backbone. Data subjects had more cases for treatment in 2009 than in previous years. Namely, the decision of the Data Protection Authority was re-examined in two of the 15 cases dealt with. The Committee has taken the view that the increase is not an expression of lack of procedure in the Data Protection Authority, but shows that several cases are case-by-case and complex. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive contribution to the discussion of the matter. It is gratifying that there is broad agreement on the importance of data protection and broad disclosure as a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2022	The Party of Progress notes that the Data Protection Authority is concerned that data protection is being weakened as a result of many individual measures that go beyond privacy and that data protection is set aside as a result of marginal, undocumented gains or purely efficiency considerations. In recent decades, there has been a huge technological development that one could expect to benefit only in a positive way, including in relation to privacy. However, in its annual report, the Data Protection Authority points out that this is the opposite, and in a large way. Every fifth municipality admits serious violations of security, but obtain help to secure privacy. Publication of case documents on the Internet, counterweights and forgotten prints – the list of privacy breaches is long in many Norwegian municipalities. A new investigation carried out by the Norwegian Information Security Centre and the Municipal Information Security Centre shows that Norwegian municipalities are poor at ensuring sensitive information. Small municipalities are often worse off than large ones. Data subjects received significant increases in the number of cases compared to previous years: 25 cases received in 2009 compared to six in 2008. The meaning of the large increase may be related to the supervisory object of the Data Protection Authority, as some businesses/objects view themselves to a greater extent than others tend to challenge the decisions of the Data Protection Authority. Despite the large amount of the case, the Privacy Policy has only converted two of the complaints. In the remaining final cases, they maintained their decision by the Data Protection Authority. Correspondence between the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer’s assessments gives the Data Protection Authority greater professional weight in its future activities. The Progress Party will also this year underline the important role of supervision as the manager of existing legislation and as the precursor to the further development of the debate on privacy. I am sure that the supervision will also put this on the agenda in the future, and I feel sure that the supervision itself has great ambitions to do the best possible work to achieve a good and safe result, for the best of our citizens in this country. I am also sure that the supervision has the full support and trust of Stortinge. For supervision, this must be very satisfactory in their further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2037	The Data Protection Authority shall identify risks to privacy and shall provide us with advice on how to avoid these hazards and, where appropriate, limit the hazards. The annual communications to the Data Protection Supervisor and the Subject of Data Protection as a body of appeal give the impression of active and competent participation in supervision, advice and visible participation in the societal debate. We should be grateful for that. Nevertheless, there is a review tone in the notifications, and in particular in the Ministry's endorsement in the notification, that privacy is under constant pressure. You can get the impression that privacy is operated a bit from chance to chance. This impression of privacy on withdrawal is not based on feelings, but facts. A rich sample collection is found in the Data Protection Supervisor’s description of the controlled sectors. I'll draw attention to page 20, column 1: ‘Controls have shown an increasing tendency to store data on a larger scale and over longer periods of time than the regulatory framework provides. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] The two controls that were terminated point towards a lack of respect for the rights granted to the data subject by the legislator.’ And in column 2: ‘Supervisory experience shows that the management tends to extend its own homes far, in some cases far beyond what is supported by the law.’ Further on page 21, column 2: ‘Many breaches of the regulatory requirements are detected. The level of seriousness varies, but there is far too little awareness and respect for the legal rules laid down in the Data Protection Act.’ The Data Protection Authority also stresses that the enterprises surveyed give the following impression: a general description is that the business has not become sufficiently familiar with the legislation, has far too little knowledge of who has to do what, has a poor overview of which personal data are processed, and has not reflected on the purposes and basis of processing. Furthermore, they have a lack of systematics in the approximation of legislation. Nor do they provide adequate safeguards for personal data, and they do not comply with key legal obligations, such as the obligation to provide information and erasure. There seems to be a significant distance between the regulation Stortinget adopts here in the house for the protection of privacy, and the reality in which establishments and businesses operate. In everyday life, the integrity of individuals is violated. One important lesson of this is that you have a solid distance from the outer boundaries of what you can accept, because you have to assume that there are errors in administration on a regular basis. Even within the social administration, which is established to secure people financially, and which should be close to taking account of individuals, we have just seen that Nav got his own home – actually better than the police – to get information about his clients' cell phone usage and actually used his home there for more than it was worth. One can reflect on why there are still exceedances of the quite far-reaching powers that the administration has caused us all to look into the cards. An explanation may be that privacy is not embedded as any central value in the sectored country. It is the sector interest to propose new ways of obtaining and using personal data. They have their own interests to care for and are often uncritical and sometimes unfit to assess whether the benefits of an intervention are real or proportionate. In particular, I am skeptical of the system where the sector interests are both taking the initiative for new data-invasive information gathering and at the same time assessing whether the intervention was proportionate. Thus, those who are intended to balance the fundamental and conflicting interests themselves must operate with the interest of the parties. The perceived benefits are often claimed to be concrete, while the disadvantages can be said to be shared among the broad public in general — i.e. on all of us. An important defence against privacy violations is, of course, that legislators have a realistic relationship to the fact that there will be administrative offences. It's actually possible to say no when some of the experts tell us that the world will collapse if not all technological opportunities are used to control what the population is doing. However, even in areas where the retention and processing of personal data has come to light, there is no doubt that social benefits do not violate the core of personal protection that can never be weighed down, there is reason to impose conditions, procedural requirements and sanctions for breaches of the data protection law. Here a more conscious legal policy is needed, and the responsibility for it lies in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2072	I just want to thank the Data Protection Authority again this year for the important job they do. Even more often, we read in the newspaper about how data protection is going to be diverted. We hear more and more about issues related to identity theft, questions related to exactly what Michael Tetzschner also pointed out: a tendency that too many without law store information both longer and more and more than they have occasion to do. I think it's important that we have a data controller who is conscious of his responsibility and does a decent job, and who also participates as a social debater and brings what's about privacy to the square in a good way. That's where I'd like to commend the Data Protection Authority. In addition, there is a well-known case that there is disagreement between the various government parties as regards what Håkon Haugli also referred to earlier: the Data Storage Directive, which has been submitted. In my view, it is a clear difference of approach and principle, which we are reflecting through the proposal put forward by the government on Friday: from where today we store information as needed and give permission to the individual body and assume that people are innocent until the opposite is proven, to reflect this principle of viewing all people as potential criminals and, on that basis, storing information for a limited period of time. I see very few fundamental differences between storing information about people for one year, half a year, two years, ten years or 20 years. But that's the principle that's up to debate. There's different balances, and we just have to respect that in the discussion we're going to have in the time that comes. In any case, there is no doubt that in the time to come, we need a data monitoring body that does its job, both for the individuals who need it – in my opinion, it has been successful campaigns aimed at both young people and different user groups – and also for all those people who need some kind of help and support to inform themselves in the world that exists. I would also like to say in relation to ID theft and the whole problem that lies there, that one of the things we from government teams – i.e. from the government parties – that all the parties in the Storting agree on is the work to ensure the security of the fourth-level e-ID solutions. There is no doubt that as we are able to escalate the level of safety here, we will also have the opportunity to ensure that wider populations have access to more sensitive data and more sensitive information. But it will also provide security in terms of protecting us stronger than what we are doing today, just tied up to the issue of ID theft. With that, I agree with what the committee has done, and we take this annual report for information and intelligence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2085	Privacy has never really been as threatened as it is now, and we've never seen technology challenge privacy as much as it does right now. But I see some signs in time that make me more positive as well. Firstly, I must stress what everyone in this Chamber has said – how important and central is the Data Protection Agency for the enforcement of legislation in this area. I also want to join those who have boasted of the Data Protection Agency's ability to change and find new ways of working, such as for example. that have worked very positively, especially to many young people, and that have probably also used very many adults. But what's happening now with regard to the Data Storage Directive – I have to say that it's nice to be at the party with SV again in a privacy case, it had to be more frequent – is that we are now seeing an awakening among people where they are beginning to understand the consequences, the perspectives and the size of the society that is now being exposed to. The Data Storage Directive has become a symbol of all the challenges faced by privacy. My mother's soul without home PC has a burning commitment to this directive. That means we're starting to get a movement of people that's much more transversal over the generations, and it's over that the fight for privacy is the fight of the nerds. But it is not just the Data Storage Directive that is the big challenge we are facing. I have to say that we in the Left are quite startled by the decisions that have been made in this room regarding health records. I think it's going to be the big field where we're going to see scandals after scandals. Today we also see a lot of leakage of information from health records. We see that this is an area that's under pressure, and we're still seeing away that the kind of sensitive information is going to go astray. If people are annoyed that someone should have an overview of who you have called, I don't think we know the perspectives when we start to see the leaks from the health records, and when we start to see the consequences of choices in this room where you haven't taken privacy seriously. Then people will really feel bored and feel that their privacy is really being laid out. Another aspect that I'm concerned about is, in particular, the issue of children and privacy. We are introducing today arrangements where we are monitoring our children. We set up online schemes where we monitor children, on a cell phone where we monitor children. Everything is done with good intentions from parents who are very engaged. The problem is that we learn a whole generation to say that privacy has no value – your need to be able to whisper something secret to a friend has no value. We're teaching a whole generation of kids that nothing really is private, nothing is secret, nothing you should be able to decide about when it comes to information. That gives some scary perspectives. I have also been concerned about ID theft and do not think that the government is on the offensive in that area. Here are a lot of simple grips that could have been done to improve conditions. We have had a major scandal, I believe, related to Nav's enforcement of the legislation in this area. What the Nav case shows us are two quite perceptive things. One is that Nav, the tax office and the customs office have more authority to obtain information than the Norwegian police. I think that's a fundamental violation of people's understanding of what's right and wrong in a society. The fact that the three floors should have more transparency in our privacy than a police investigating matters does not understand us in the Left. But the second thing the Nav case reveals is a lack of a basic spinal cord reflex related to privacy. I think one of the big challenges we're facing in a lot of areas, maybe that those who sit and manage the system, dream about the perfect system that no one is going to get away from -- a system they're never going to achieve, but where they're going to overstep privacy in a number of areas of their eagerness to get there. The fact that we are at all discussing such an out-of-date directive as the Data Storage Directive in this Chamber shows that we are politically unable to cope with what is really happening around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2102	Privacy is a comprehensive policy area. This means that almost no matter what theme is discussed, it will be appropriate to consider privacy-related issues. The Annual Communications from the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Officer for 2009 show the scope of the issues addressed by the data protection authorities. The range ranges from heavy issues relating to the establishment of health registers and the use of personal data in research, via transport privacy, to issues relating to the use of social media and privacy. We see a growing commitment to privacy, even though the «man in the street» is probably not concerned with privacy issues in everyday life. Several issues have helped raise privacy concerns. Among other things, the use of health information in research has received considerable attention in the press. However, the EU Data Storage Directive is in a particular class in terms of attention and debate. Rarely have so many opinions on privacy been as strong as in this case, and it is good that we have a comprehensive public debate on such important issues. Law proposition No. presented by the government 49 on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law on 10 December, i.e. a few days ago. There is no doubt that the matter of implementing the Data Storage Directive has been a demanding matter for the government. Extensive storage of data from electronic communications undoubtedly represents a privacy breach. At the same time, it is important for the government to facilitate police use of the necessary tools to investigate serious crime. At the same time, when we propose that providers of electronic communications be required to store data for 12 months, it has been important to ensure strict rules on access to data in order to safeguard privacy. The threshold for police access to data has increased significantly in relation to the law in force. As a general rule, the criminal offence must have a four-year penalty framework. The provision of location data requires a five-year penalty framework. In addition, the data must be of material importance as evidence in the case. So it's not like the police can freely retrieve the data they want. Before data can be provided, a thorough assessment shall be carried out to balance, inter alia, the police’s need for data in the fight against crime. the privacy requirements of data subjects. Privacy must always be weighed against other social interests. And data protection assessments must be carried out early in the processes. Only in this way can they become an integral part of the decision-making basis. More and more, both nationally and internationally, talk about ‘privacy by design’, or built-in privacy, which appears to be the Norwegian concept. This means that privacy-friendly solutions are integrated into the technology as automatic first choice. It is a good way to get users to use privacy-friendly solutions. Using built-in privacy may include, for example: promoting the use of non-track alternatives and anonymous solutions, which are often difficult and costly if data protection assessments are to be submitted to the decision-making process. Identity theft is a phenomenon that has received increasing attention. Unfortunately, we have little information about the extent of the problem. But for those exposed to ID theft, it can be both very unpleasant and for some also have major economic consequences. The government is concerned that those closest to preventing ID theft must be conscious of their responsibility. Businesses themselves often have to ensure that solutions are in place to protect the safety of users and to prevent misuse of the identity of others. As part of the follow-up to the Commission’s report, FAD has launched two concrete actions followed up by the Data Protection Authority. The first is the deletion service, which can be used by people if they experience Internet abuses and want help to remove unwanted information. In addition, we are in the process of a project aimed at raising knowledge of privacy and ensuring better internal control and information security in Norwegian businesses. The Privacy Officers shall play an important role in this information and awareness-raising work. The Government is now working on a comprehensive follow-up to the challenges and proposals for action contained in the Commission’s report. It is important to look at complex data protection issues in the context so that we can best safeguard the individual’s right to privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2122	We did not have a long time ago a revision of the Working Environment Act, where we went away from fines alone to also having prison sentences as a sanction option, and funny enough for four years as a penalty framework. My question to the Council of State is whether she looks forward to using the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian workplaces to detect, prevent or clarify offences, with a penalty framework of four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2129	I can't quite take Tetzschner's questions. However, there is no doubt that if criminal offences have been committed that the police want to investigate, the Data Storage Directive police could appeal to the right to obtain a legal order to collect traffic data stored in relation to individual activities and what individuals may have done. In this way, of course, workplaces can also be involved in that type of questioning. But I believe that with the Data Storage Directive, we will have greater legal certainty now than we have had in the past, as we need to have a court order for the arrests the police had to do with the collection of traffic data from the telecommunications companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2135	In recent months, I have raised many questions about privacy on different fronts with the Council of State. So now I'm going to try out a little, summarizing question. We now see that privacy has challenges from a number of registers. Some of them I rammed into my post, such as. the health records. My question to the Council of State is: How many scandals, how many leaks and how much information on the way out must the Council of State have before she again wants to sit down and assess whether the choices we have made are correct in providing as much information available to as many people as we do, for example. in relation to the health records?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2142	I agree that related to health records there are challenges to privacy. It is in all social situations. In the case of health records, the Ministry of Health is going through them. I think it is absolutely essential that if we are to have a good privacy relationship with, for example. health records must be made early in order to ensure that privacy is included in the preparation of the new health records. Then I look forward to a further debate on how to design privacy, through the follow-up to the Commission's report, where we can have the opportunity to discuss privacy issues in their full scope. Then we will also be able to discuss individual matters. I believe that in the individual matters we have had so far, privacy has been carefully assessed. We have to keep doing that in the new things we're going to have to do. And then we have to punish, so that you follow the privacy of the individual businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2153	Then I'm going to ask you something a lot more concrete, so maybe we'll get to the goal. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has had a project called “slechtmeg.no”, which I believe has worked very well, and which many, especially young people, have had the opportunity to make use of. Now this project is over. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about the project, and if the Council of State will help it to possibly continue, so that there is a service that Norwegian citizens might have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2160	I agree that the system of slutmeg.no has been a success. Many people have used the service, and I think many have received good help through the service. So it would be quite natural for us in new letters of assignment to the Data Protection Authority to write that there is a service we think should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2165	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2170	Fortunately, most people are law - abiding citizens who do not commit crime. Every day is relatively safe for most of the Nordics, but we're also part of the world. The pictures from 2001 put a punch in all of us. We were shocked and filled with disbelief. So it went slowly, but surely pointed out to us that the terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York was a deliberate attack on law-abiding citizens, and with intent – in order to hurt as much as possible. Since then, we have all come to know that our world has had some challenging challenges in preventing terror and attacks against law-abiding citizens – the last time underlined in Stockholm this weekend. The Data Storage Directive has been in place for a long time and has been debated in various media since it came from the EU in 2006. In my view, in many words, too much unilateral action has been taken against what is the main purpose of the directive. The main task of policy is to ensure that society provides security and development opportunities for all. That's why there's reason to reflect a little bit on the world's development, and remembering that we're becoming more vulnerable the less distance becomes, and the more complicated the technological infrastructure becomes. Many of those who are unable to protect themselves against crime and reckless abuse, experience renunciation and disgust, including to the authorities: why is this happening to me? Why wasn't anyone expecting things to happen? These are the leads that I believe the Data Storage Directive must take into account in order to provide better protection against that. At the same time, when you discuss with people, I record in the debate that people accept the storage of traffic data whose crime can be combated. I am sure that opponents of the directive are also committed to securing our society against cross-border crime and the abuse of innocent children. There we have a common path to go and a common position. But I also think it is important not to create a scarescreen of the Data Storage Directive and in a way demonstrate the debate. We need to discuss this properly. When the left in the debate here says that children can no longer whisper secrets to each other as much as they like: yes, they can, they can continue whispering to each other and having contact with each other. But at the same time, taking care of children in the digital world can do something of the most important society. And sometimes in the debate -- not here in the hall, but out there -- you feel that privacy is almost out of control. And it's actually pretty hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2181	Just a few words about what has been highlighted by many in this debate, and as I see it, the debate is a good one, namely the issue of the data storage directive and its implementation in Norwegian law. I hear that the representative Skei Grande describes much of the resistance to the data storage directive and the resulting rules, as a symbolic struggle, and that is also the impression that they have. This morning, I visited Kripos and saw some of the most serious forms of crime used, among others. in the electronic media, on the Internet, which is a very bad offense against children. Those kids are totally invincible. And this is a crime that spreads into a arena where the police are often put checkmates, because the Data Protection Agency has put a restriction on 21 days of storage. I imagine that the children who are subjected to the type of abuse do not experience the means that the police are supposed to have, as symbolic, but which are especially necessary. I am saying this because it is presented as if all the followers of it have access to traffic data and that the police get this access, almost immediately against privacy. For the undersigned, it is perhaps preventing some of the most important data protection we can provide specifically for children, and when the damage has occurred, it contributes to resolving such types of issues. That is why, as proposed by the government, the rules presented on Friday – to continue to allow the police access to traffic data after judicial review, which is a significant restriction on privacy – and it is also an intrusion that we set a four-year penalty framework as a general rule, a five-year penalty framework in the case of base station searches – are also a significant increase in the level of data protection by setting such strict criteria for the police to have access to it. But at the same time, we need to look at the children affected by this type of crime – we could have mentioned the type of crime. All because – I was saying – where crime develops, we see that technological developments make the police dependent on being able to see this. When the representative Michael Tetzschner also raises the issue of labour law offences, it is a cross-section of thought that for the crimes that have a four-year penalty framework, the police will be given transparency under the new rules. Actually, we don't have them today. Today, with today's legal status, you will be given transparency without going to the courts – for far less serious matters. That is why I believe that the proposal put forward by the government is not only a strength in the fight against crime, but also a strength in relation to classical privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2194	It is important to stress that there is no one against the possibility for the police to use data. As the Minister of Justice says, it's available today. And no one – as far as I have registered – has proposed that the police should not have the opportunity to use traffic data at all. The problem with the arguments of the Minister of Justice and large parts of the Workers' Party is that it has no logical final limit. The argument is that let's keep going a little bit further, because then we can do one more. In particular, there is an intrusive thought, and there is always a balance between privacy considerations and consideration of other important values. The problem with the Minister of Justice's reasoning is that there is no logical limit to that. Why should we not then have even a little longer storage time and include even a little more under a data storage directive? For example, why do you have to do this? could not take pedophiles or attackers by checking their Gmail or their Hotmail or Skype account, which are not to be included in the Data Storage Directive today? What's the principal reason for that? Why don't you also save the content, if it's important that we can break privacy to just take some of the worst perpetrators of our society? Why don't we go there? I assume that the Minister of Justice has good answers to that, and I assume that the Minister of Justice, as a lawyer, also has good thoughts about it. The problem is that the reasoning he conducts in public has no fundamental limit to why you should come here, but no longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2201	It was probably not the Minister of Justice who made me take the floor, but the Workers' Party's posts, insinuating that privacy is a general violation, and insinuating that everyone who is against the Data Storage Directive is for the violation of children. It's not like that. In fact, some have estimated the increase in the clearance rate of about 1 per million by introducing the Data Storage Directive. But there's a huge storage of us that doesn't do anything. If this is to be discussed, it is necessary to consider the content of the Data Storage Directive. The content is made for a time before Skype existed, before using the technological arrangements. Today, the Data Storage Directive can be circumvented by talking on Facebook, using Hotmail, using Skype and by any other technological means. And then you think everyone – I don't know, but "dream bag" is probably not a parliamentary word?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2210	It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2213	Then you think that all the criminals who make a false attack on citizens, don't know it. Why do you have to go around and believe it? Do you have to save everything that goes on us that doesn't do anything, while all those who do these attacks, just choose other channels? That is why the EU is parking the whole process, because they realize it is not working. It is completely incomprehensible to me why a government should push through something that the whole EU has recognised is not working. It is not that we who are against the directive seem to be doing well, that bombers in Stockholm and the terrorist attacks in New York are doing well, and that there is only something we have to pay for privacy. No, it doesn't work, it doesn't take any of these, because it's so easy to bypass. Is it the case that you want to sacrifice all the individuals in Norway, all those who don't do anything wrong in their private lives, because you might want to solve that promo of crime this is about? Because you don't take the big fish. The big fish are doing good intelligence work, by traditional police work, by all the old traditional ways, because they're the ones that work. To think that just everyone gets registered in everything we do, and only we get insight into everything we do, there's no crime in the future, is an illusion we just have to go away. It doesn't exist. I would like to have asked myself that someone claims that we only accept abuse because privacy is general. I do not think that should be heard from the spokesperson of the Stortinge because it is as much a commitment to combating crime among the opponents of the directive as among the trailers of the directive. At least I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2223	Then we are in the process of discussing the Data Storage Directive, a discussion we would like to have had quite many years ago. My reasons for participating in the debate and my reasons for being skeptical of those who go out completely uncritically and say that we have to introduce the Data Storage Directive are that I come from a state where, with the Government Party, the Workers' Party, we have for years experienced events that have been uncritical of privacy. From Finnmark we have countless stories about hiding illegal archives, they've been torn apart, and it's retired party secretaries who even write a book about it. For me, when parliamentary leader Helga Pedersen goes out and warns that if we do not hurry to introduce this directive, Norway will appear as a centre for pedophiles. Then I'm going to bounce a little bit. Every time someone from the Labour Party is uncritical about introducing a directive, it is important to push a little. I've learned that. In fact, it is not the case that anyone who opposes – not uncritically – the introduction of this type of directive carries criminals on their arms. I think it's healthy, and I think history has shown us that it's very healthy, to be critical when the Workers' Party comes and says that this must be the Kingdom of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2232	It was Trine Skei Grande's last post that made me take the floor. I think it is very regrettable that opponents of the Data Storage Directive use the same techniques in this debate that they accuse us of, namely, quite uncritically to suggest that we have a vision that we do not have. Let it be quite clear: for the Workers' Party, too, there has been a serious balance in this matter between privacy considerations and the need to combat crime as effectively as possible. I began to wonder if Trine Skei Grande really knew the content of the bill that was presented on Friday, when I heard the post that was made. Firstly, the representative, Skei Grande, says that criminals are going to use new technology to circumvent what is criminalised by the directive. So let's do that. The NOKAS case. In the NOKAS case, those who have been convicted today made considerable efforts to avoid the kind of technology that this is about, just so the police wouldn't get to know them. But they made a mistake. One day someone used a computer in Malaga, Spain. As a result, the police got an IP address that they could start ripping up. Gradually, you got access to prints from base stations and could thus find out where people had been at any time. That's what we see in all the major, serious criminal cases where traffic data has been used. At some point people make mistakes, and the police have tracks to go after. Therefore, the Workers' Party also believes that we need more than six months of storage time for traffic data, and we believe that one year is right. So Trine Skei Grande says that the EU is about to park the directive. I have no idea where the representative has taken it from. On the contrary, at the dialogue meeting held in Brussels on 3 December, Commissioner Malmström said the opposite, namely that the EU data storage directive has come to be, and rightly so. I have read the questions asked in connection with the consultation note. I think that's good questions. They're going on purpose. They go on many of the devices that are there that Norway has also taken a stand on. I feel that many of the questions raised by the EU are those raised by the Right. They are not as rhetorical as Torbjørn Røe Isaksens, but they are highly relevant in balancing privacy and in combating crime. Then I have to say to Torbjørn Røe Isaksen's posts that we are just drawing a line now by intensifying the access to traffic data through court proceedings. By setting a four-year requirement for a general rule, we're drawing a limit that doesn't exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2245	We need to be able to discuss in this room whether the principles of privacy become the overriding objective. We have to be able to do that without accusing others of thinking anything wrong with it. No one has claimed that opponents of the Data Storage Directive are for crime. If someone sees it like that, I think it's important to make it clear that it's not like that. But it is an important directive, so it is also important to discuss it properly. If that's what Trine Skei Grande says, that we can solve crime with good investigation, why do the police ask to have traffic data stored together and insistently? They're asking for this tool, not to look at what's stored, but to go back to what's stored. We're going to balance this, not uncritically and not without any fundamental considerations, as the Red Ice Axis suggested. This is too important for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2254	I just want to make it clear from my point of view that my considerations about privacy and the fact that I believe that much of the legislation that comes into the wake of the Data Storage Directive helps to strengthen privacy, especially for young children, but also for others who are exposed to crime, does not mean that those who are opposed to the Directive are not in favour of combating crime. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to exclude the supporters of the directive from the view that there is a significant aspect of privacy for us to, among other things. children who are victims of serious crime receive the uproar that lies in discovering and investigating the case. So to the representative, Skei Grande, who claims that it's only in a lot of cases this is important, and that the big fish don't reach. Then I recommend reading the proposition, then I recommend reading what Kripos says, because that's exactly what the European experience is going in the direction of. It is precisely in the case of serious crime, drug cases, murder cases, organised crime and child offences that traffic data are vital to identify who is behind them. In more than half of those between 1500 and 2000 cases that Kripos examined in 2008, and where traffic data was used, we see that traffic data has been widely used to check traffic data. So that's not right what the representative Skei Grande says about this having no significance for the percentage of information. Then I must also say that we have no signals – rather the opposite – that the EU is about to park this directive. I'd like to know where you got it from. The signals from Brussels are almost the opposite. You look at how this works, and you have so far no signal that the police are dissatisfied with the benefits of using traffic data. So here I have to say that at least we have to be careful about how we refer the facts in that way. To Røe Isaksen: Several of us want to set limits on how to obtain traffic data and how long to store it. Some of us believe that what the Data Protection Authority did when setting 21 days' storage time for the IP addresses was very sad, because Norway is unable to track who is behind the IP addresses in terms of child abuse images, as opposed to our neighbouring countries and other countries in Europe that have longer storage times. But we have such a principal approach that we believe that we should not store forever and ever. That's what's difficult in politics, but at some point, those who are attached to the police need to get traffic data – something I realized that Røe Isaksen was, but not Skei Grande – set limits on how long to store, and we've fallen in twelve months. I have to say that it must be allowed in politics to have the impression that in the case of as serious crime as this represents, we need to have a wider framework than the Data Protection Agency actually puts in place today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2265	When I choose to take the floor now, it is basically based on the fact that the debate on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor is about to become a data storage directive debate, and I think it is in place that the yes-page in the Right-wing Chair will come with it. I think that both the yes-side and the no-side just have to have a slightly more moderate approach to the arguments. It's not about either – or. In fact, it's about a balance. There are many good aspects to the Data Storage Directive. That's why it's introduced. That is the whole point of its existence in the EU. It is an evaluation in the EU and, as the Minister of Justice has repeatedly stated, there is nothing in the EU that indicates that the directive is being deleted. It's probably going to be more of a pinch. Then the point is that we, as followers, must also have respect for the fact that there are good, factual, primal and often ideological balances on the other side. I have come to the conclusion that based on the government's draft consultation and based on what the Right National Meeting has adopted, I am, in fact, a member of the Data Storage Directive. It has to do with the fact that the police have to get the same resources as the criminals have, and have the same resources in Norway as the police authorities of other countries. I think that's incredibly important. So I think it is also that the debate is marked, perhaps also in this Chamber, by the fact that there is a debate on the data storage directive on the one hand, with its fundamental concerns and its practical weaknesses and a reality that is not present at the other end as an alternative. No data storage is an option. Therefore, for or against data storage a very remarkable debate becomes. If Norway rejects the Data Storage Directive, data traffic in the cosmos will not disappear for that reason. It will still exist. Then you have to think, what are you going to do? Then my challenge is back to the opponents, both inside and outside this hall: what is the alternative? If you have an alternative to discuss, the resistance becomes more visible, and you can point to concrete things. Now it becomes very principleal on one side and very practical on the other side as well as having an ideological angle of incidence. How long do you want storage? Is it three to four months, like today, that any of the opponents want, or is it twelve months or is it six months or is it eight months? What kind of crime is what they want the police to see? Who, if any, should have access to it? There's a discussion that Storting will now take. The government has delivered a draft hearing. The right is going to take the discussion, but I think the debate is well served that both parties act fairly and do not suspect each other's motives. Then we get a good discussion. But my challenge is to make an alternative, not just criticise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2278	We were invited to discuss the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer, and then I discovered that I had come to the DLD spring game. It's clear that it's always nice with our games, it's often where there's the most pressure, but I think we're going to take the necessary time now. I am among those who are relatively interested in the Data Storage Directive – I have come to page 123. It was handed over today. There are 141 pages in the proposition -- interesting reading, but now let's read and let's get it referenced and distributed to the committee before we take the full debate here. Privacy is under strong enough pressure not to take advantage of the one opportunity we have this year to discuss just that, to start a debate that will come next year. From the main speakers of the parties, both Håkon Haugli, Michael Tetzschner and others, there has been a clear focus on what this matter is really about, namely the privacy challenges in Norway. There is a long list of challenges that the Right has now addressed and that we will address independently of the Data Storage Directive. This concerns the protection of privacy relating to health records, which others have been involved in. It concerns traffic monitoring challenges. There are challenges related to something as simple as school-class lists. These are challenges related to a wide range of issues where we see that privacy is under pressure, and where, through Norwegian legislation, completely regardless of what the EU may think, we can make significant restrictions on privacy. I understand that the Data Protection Authority is doing a good job, and they're doing a thorough job. It's a plant that's on the chopper. The role of the Data Protection Agency may also need to be strengthened in the future. That is what this debate should be about, and then I see that there are some others who want it to be about something else. For the Right, we will take the necessary time to get an overview of the content of the proposition, see how the Ministry or Government – the divided government – has met Right in terms of the requirements and assumptions we have set out to discuss the implementation of the Data Storage Directive at all. That process will go both here in the house and in more enclosed rooms in the right, i.e. at group meetings, in order to arrive at a basis on which we can proceed. But we do that after Christmas and not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2289	Let me join in what was essentially the message of the representative of Greece. However, when we deal with the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Data Protection Supervisor, I also think it is important that we take that debate when these messages are handled. It also gives an indication of these messages. I fully agree that the Data Protection Agency in Norway and the Data Protection Agency are doing a great job, but it is just so regrettable that no one is listening to them. There is something of the issue, including with regard to the Data Storage Directive. I noticed what was said by some representatives about the Data Storage Directive: At some point people make a mistake, and then it is important that you have a monitoring so that we can go after it. It's the Workers' Party that says it. Yes, that's what this is about: you have to store information about basically innocent people in case someone had to make a mistake at some point, and then we can go after it. I'm not for that. I'm against it. But I'm because we're using all the resources for surveillance, infiltration and what it must be in the case of people who are suspected of possibly looting with plans of terror or organized crime. It's a completely different debate. I'll bring it with Minister of Justice Storberget later this evening, I understand. So it's said, yes, I've registered for a whole year that the police are asking for better access. But I have also recorded that the defence is very critical, that the Data Protection Authority is very critical, that our universities are indirectly opposed and that more than 50 pst. of those who have responded to the draft consultation. That also counts a little bit. For approx. 55 minutes ago I ended a conversation with Brussels. I find this quite strange, and it puts the Workers' Party in a certain light, that we must now force as quickly as possible through a 2006 data storage directive that has expired. Because there's a new one in Spring 2011 from the EU. Then I think at least you could take the time to wait for it, because you should not germinate from the signals that come about storing content. A resolution was promoted by the Commission that content should also be stored. It was rejected at that point. However, it is part of what the EU is driving and discussing now when the new Data Directive is to be presented. But it says something about the Workers' Party when you have to hurry through this to get the Data Storage Directive in place. So it's like this, at least for the Progress Party, that there's no discussion that the police are going to lose the tools they have today. We have to make sure of them. I note that the Minister of Justice wants talks with the Progress Party. They are to be taken, but then for the purpose of lowering total surveillance in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2306	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2309	We have not been invited to conversations, so we use the speech chair instead. This was about the Data Protection Agency until the representative, Mr Olsen, took the floor in the debate. I just have to answer cards for something. First the parking of the Directive. We know that the liberals, who are the third largest group in Parliament, are working to stop it. We have good contact with Parliament. In Parliament, they have taken great steps to stop it. The fact that you're talking to the Commission might mean that you get the wrong information as well. We want the police to keep the same authority as they have today – no one will take it from them – and it is from the perspective we are talking about how much more crime can be solved. DLD will not monitor Internet cafes in Spain, and the Children’s Ombudsman is against this directive, which you believe is intended to protect Norwegian children. In fact, this directive can help create crime. It's because the information may be misleading, that the defense is skeptical. It was as short as I was able to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2324	The President will ask the representative to use the President to present his message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2327	I thought it was the annual report to the Data Protection Authority that we were going to discuss, but I note that it has become a real hot debate on the Data Storage Directive. It's pleasing to a transporter's heart that we're having a discussion on this important topic. But after listening to both the Minister of Justice and the Justice Spokesman of the Labour Party, I think it was important in many ways to get involved in the debate, because it is an important debate. What I think is important to bring, and I feel that those who are in favour of the directive are not talking much about, is the total monitoring of the population in Norway that is spreading in ever-new areas. Not only within this data storage directive, but also in other areas of Norwegian society, we still experience that privacy is on the waving front. I also think the Data Protection Authority is very clear on that. It seems that you are now very satisfied with the decision of the judiciary, and I think that is a good principle. It is said that the police generally ask for this information only when you really need it, or when you think you have a basis for it. But then it is good to have the Post and Telecommunications Authority in approx. 40 pst. of any request made by the police to refuse access to traffic data. It is at least a clear signal to me that the police want to see what they really do not need. I understand that the police would like to have had the opportunity to monitor everyone at any time, and got all the information. Everyone understands that because you want to solve crime. We all agree on that. Now that you are so concerned that you should have a 12-month storage period, I also think it is important to bear in mind that the experience of the EU countries that have introduced the Directive is that it is all, mostly – up to 90 pst. – in fact, the storage period is shorter than six months. This may well mean that the wish of the Workers' Party in 12 months' time is not necessarily in line with the need seen in the countries that have introduced the Data Storage Directive, as well as that I believe that many of the new parameters are a strong interference in the privacy of the individual. I am pleased to continue working with the Data Storage Directive, which is now being processed. Then, of course, I hope it comes to the Transport and Communications Committee, so that it actually comes to the committee that deals with it largely in the rest of Europe, and that it does not become a purely judicial matter, which I feel the Minister of Justice has put a lot of prestige into doing so. This is how all aspects can be addressed, not just in terms of combating crime and that bit, but a broad and thorough discussion of the personal issues involved in the implementation of the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2341	The Data Storage Directive is not a major issue in the 2009 Annual Reports. But since it has been drawn into this debate, first at Trine Skei Grande's speeches, I will elaborate on the views of the Labour Party. Some people doubt the usefulness of the Data Storage Directive. The Police Directorate, Kripos, Ecokrim, the Police Confederation, the National Attorney General and the National Attorney's Office have been crystal clear that the Data Storage Directive is necessary. The Data Protection Authority's own investigation by civil engineer Svein Y. Willassen reached the same conclusion. Traffic data are important evidence, and it is unthinkable to claim that these professional communities do not understand the picture of crime or the usefulness of different investigation methods. So to Trine Skei Grande's claim that it's easy to bypass. Yes, neither storage nor circumvention of investigation methods is new. The NOKAS ran was the best planned race in Norway ever. They were well aware of the risk of tracking. However, they were taken because they made a mistake. A SIM card got on the wrong track. This made it possible to track network traffic, and it made the most serious investigation in Norway's history clear. The red ice axis claims that we are still taking another step. That's wrong. It is not as simple as the Data Storage Directive weakens privacy. In key areas, the legislative proposal will strengthen privacy by requiring the provision of traffic data to suspect a serious criminal offence, by requiring that the data will have a significant impact, and by introducing judicial control. It's not like everyone's suspecting. Data, as it is today, will only be used if there is a concrete suspicion of a serious criminal offence. Recently, Kripos received tips about a father who operated as a hallik for his seven-year-old daughter. The father informed me that he even abused her, attached three pictures and gave me an e-mail address and place of residence. When the police got the tip, the information was deleted from the Internet service provider, in line with today's storage rules. It scares me that several of those who today attack the Data Storage Directive with reference to privacy are concerned only with their own concerns about the storage of traffic data and completely disregard the privacy and legal certainty of those who are exposed to serious criminal offences. Finally, I would like to thank you for a dedicated debate. It has not always been the case that all parties have participated in the debate on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority. That they're doing it today, we're being interpreted as saying that there's a broad gap both in data protection and data protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2358	It's exactly this kind of post that makes us get this kind of debate as well. When the representative Haugli claims it was the opponents of the data storage directive that started the debate, it is completely wrong. It was the Council of State that did that, and others from the position, who believe that those against the Data Storage Directive are almost also for terror and for child abuse. That's what's suggested in the post from Haugli. I hear again that the NOKAS case is mentioned. The Baneheia case has also been used. These cases were resolved without the Data Storage Directive. They were solved with the tools that the police have today. I note that the Minister of Justice is shaking his head in a febrile manner, but the issues have been resolved, and that was not done under the Data Storage Directive. There is no denial, because it is not implemented yet. So someone's trying to give the impression that, like the Data Protection Agency, you're a member of the storage of communications. Yeah, no one's against it. No one is against what lies there today, the approach that the police in Norway have today. There's no one who's an opponent of it. However, it is far from the availability and the tools available to the police today to implement the Data Storage Directive. There's a big difference between that and that. The difference is that with the new Directive, all types of communication should be kept. I don't think there's any capacity to store it either. That's another thing, there's a discussion coming later. And so it's like this – and it's important to bring it along – that it's not just the Progress Party, SV, the Center Party and parts of the Right that are opposite. As I said in my first post, over 50 pst. of those who have black is against it. So you use abuse against children. Yes, the Children's Ombudsman is against, the Save Children are against, and alerts are against, because it will have a completely different kind of consequences. The preliminary conclusion of the evaluation in the EU is that no increase in the percentage of information has been obtained in the fight against terrorism or other crime. However, it is documented that privacy has been significantly compromised. It should be a signal to more than the Advance Party. Yes, traffic data is important in the fight against crime. Then we must first and foremost ensure the access that the police have today, because it is in the process of being confused by changing the billing to annual agreements. This should have been the debate now, not the 2006 old data storage directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2373	The representative Sandberg claims that matters have been resolved. That's wrong. The matter with the father who offered sex with his seven - year - old daughter has not been resolved. The data was deleted in line with today's storage policy. And the matter is not unique. Kripos receives regular lists of Norwegian IP addresses used for child abuse. There is no need to suggest anything here, we can say it directly: the fact is that the Progress Party does not listen to the police and fails in the fight against serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2380	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2383	That's when you're so busy monitoring all the people in a society and don't have the ability to listen. Then you get the kind of posts that we got now. I did not mention the matter of this danger at all, but referred to the cases raised by all the trailers of the Data Storage Directive, the NOKAS case and the Baneheia case. These two issues have been resolved without us implementing the Data Storage Directive. But the fact that traffic data is used is absolutely correct. There are also many other things that are being solved today. We should focus a lot more on preventing this type of crime. It means quite common police methods for monitoring and infiltration and, not least, cross-border cooperation in suspecting, monitoring and arresting those suspected of committing this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2392	The representative Per Sandberg is quite right that traffic data has been essential to clarify many of the most significant criminal cases we have had in Norway. The NOKAS case is the prime example of that. At the same time, technological developments lead to data not being stored to the same extent and for as long as previously. The police themselves refer to e.g. The order-out case as a matter of fact it would be more demanding to clarify today, because at that time traffic data was stored longer than today. So a new situation has arisen. The Data Protection Authority has created a code where IP addresses can now be stored for only 21 days. We, who are supporters of the Data Storage Directive, can mention many examples in which the police today cannot solve these kinds of issues because they do not have access to the legislation they need. Another example is the major infringement case that was rehearsed in Bodø, where there are about half of the suspected victims that the police are not getting access to, because the IP addresses have been deleted. I'm recording that Sandberg is not dealing with issues that are not being resolved, just about issues where traffic data is currently available. He does not deal with the issues that are not resolved today, and where the police are quite clear that you need a better regulation than today to solve them. For example, an organisation that has been very clear on the need for the Data Storage Directive to be able to solve child-related infringements. Stine Sofie's Foundation. So what the representative Sandberg says about having the support of very few people is not right. I regret that the Progress Party in this matter has not listened to all former justice politicians in the Progress Party who have highlighted the need for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law and who have criticized the government for not taking action to implement the Directive, because it is necessary for the police to put in place such a type of legislation in order to solve crime. And I record that the spokesperson of the Progress Party is not concerned that the police today cannot resolve a number of serious issues because of the lack of traffic data storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2417	Before the next speaker is given the floor, the President will draw attention to Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that ‘the speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion’. If anyone wants to check this, it says on page 33 of Stortingen's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2420	During the last round of debates on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, the need to discuss privacy in a broader framework was just addressed. Several members of the Stortinget pointed out that the debate on the annual report gave a fine opportunity to do so. And I see why many have raised the question about, among other things. implementation of the Data Storage Directive, where the Data Protection Authority has been a very active actor. There is one aspect of the role of data protection in relation to data storage that is very central and that should be addressed in this debate. It is the 21-day deadline set by the Data Protection Authority for storing IP addresses. That is the background to the fact that at least the undersigned have chosen to issue it in this debate, because it is precisely creating a need to discuss what we are doing to ensure ourselves here. I'm going to grab one of the very few points in Sandberg's posts. This concerns the question of — and he says so himself — the possibility for the police to conduct this type of investigation is confusing. That is precisely what we see in the light of a 21-day deadline. Then my question, my wonder, is up against the Progress Party: Why are you not involved in organizing so that the police can still have the opportunity to retrieve traffic data, among other things. in the infringement proceedings, when a period of 21 days has been set? What is the alternative – when the representative Sandberg points out that the police's opportunities are confusing, and at the same time he also says that the police's opportunity must be ensured? That is where the bill from the government, which was presented on Friday, meets the police against getting longer storage time. If you want something to see, it actually has to be data that is being stored. Therefore, I believe that the debate on the Data Storage Directive is very close to the practice of the Data Protection Authority on the issue of storage time. And I understand those representatives in the debate who have called for the alternatives of the opponents, as also the representative Kambe, from the Right, did. What is the option, if you don't want to start discussing how long the data will be stored, how the police will get access to this – we've replied with judicial control – and what kind of threshold to set for this, where we've been blacking four years as a rule, as opposed to today, where the threshold is significantly lower? These are the answers I hope a good political debate on the Data Storage Directive will take place and perhaps also create a broader political basis for them than it seems to be today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2431	I have actually been sitting and listening to the debate all night and being ready to hear the Annual Report. I also have to admit that I was a little surprised that the data storage directive came up, because I experienced it so that the main figures for all parties chose to avoid it. That's what I thought, because you know how debates are going to start. So I thought it would be a good idea to have a southerner on the list, which can often collect and not create a split, but I see that there will be more afterwards. But I need to make some comments. This is particularly true after Håkon Haugli's posts, where he went to attack specifically on the Left, which I thought raised some important problem settings. Because what I think is important in this matter is to ask the question: what was the reason why the directive was created? What is the background for the Data Storage Directive? One of the most important reasons was just to stop organized crime. When you look at the developments that have occurred in the last few years, and then you're going to introduce a directive that's not adapted to today's challenges, I think it's a bomb. As many people have been involved, it's very easy to avoid. You can only take a mobile phone and go inside and choose to use Skype when you call, instead of dialing normally. This way, you will not be able to monitor or save Skype. Facebook is not supposed to, hotmail is not, Gmail is not, etc. etc. That's why I think a tramp across some boundaries because you're going to create a security, and instead of creating that security, you're going to weaken privacy. Several have suggested that this should be introduced for the benefit of the children. Let me also just remind you that, as far as I know, the children's environment is against it, and it also tells me that there are many people who are concerned about the legal certainty of children who also have strong objections to the data storage directive. Therefore, I think it is important rather to wait and look at what is happening in the EU before going well into the data storage directive as it is today. There are no limits to what we can save. We can always save more and more. Therefore, as politicians, we should set limits on what can be stored in order to ensure privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2442	The Council of State says that we have put forward a solution. Yes, the government party, the Workers' Party, has presented a solution. In fact, we believe that there is another solution – which is a much better solution – that takes care of both police and private concerns. The Council of State has said that he wants to challenge the Progress Party for discussion, and we will of course accept that if he thinks so, i.e. think that better solutions should be found than what is in today's proposals from the Workers' Party for the processing of the Data Storage Directive and for pure implementation. The council was very concerned with IP addresses and that they were only stored for 21 years, and that was to the extent that the representative Bjørnflaten also. We're willing to discuss and look at this. It's far from 21 days to six months. There's a very big difference between that and that. We think that's interesting to discuss and look at. And then we record that you say you're busy taking those who are supposed to be behind criminal acts. The point of the Data Storage Directive is that everyone can be included in the concept of ‘supposed’ to be able to stand behind criminal acts and that everyone can be monitored in the ultimate sense if you want to. We do not want that. And when you stand on the side of the Workers' Party and preach that this is about the children, and those who are concerned about the children's interests, I think it is important to bear in mind that the Fear Children, at least for me, is an organization that is concerned about the children, and the Children's Ombudsman is an organization that is concerned about the children. In fact, I think that is also the perspective to be taken when we discuss the Data Storage Directive, whether you are in favour or against. I also think it's interesting, now that we're thinking about what storage is to be done, that there's a place between 100 and 200 telecom companies that are going to store all this information, and also that the government is not able to keep track of its own documents, or that other states are not able to keep track of their own documents. Then you can imagine how 100 different companies will be able to find technical solutions to prevent unauthorised access to this data. I think it's going to be exciting to see if you can stop it at all. Then I want to go into one more aspect, which no one has been in. A short time ago we discussed in this Chamber a matter of alerts. So the company might say that people who are alerts have done something criminal, which is equal to four or five years, and that way you can get information about who you've been in contact with, and when you were in contact with them. It may at least be dangerous and harmful for people who warn of serious, illegal circumstances, because they are the ones who will be notified and followed up, rather than the means by which they are engaged in this room, namely to protect alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2458	Technology offers many fantastic opportunities, but it also creates some new challenges in society. I may think that today's debate illustrates just the point the Data Protection Authority is trying to illustrate in its Annual Report, that privacy is one of the areas under pressure. I believe that this debate illustrates a very central point when we are discussing privacy and technology, and it is linked to the fact that legislation always depends on development. It is also the case that criminals will take advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies to generate profits, and the authorities are demonstrablely using new technologies to confront the criminals and the means they use. At the heart of today's debate on the data storage directive, the issue of today's system of how we handle these data, and how we use it, is good enough. I believe that the answer to that is no, and we need to discuss how we should deal with this in the future. Because that's not going to be less data. On the contrary, there will be more and more data, and there will be more and more data in several areas as well. Privacy is therefore a fundamental right that protects the privacy and privacy of individuals. This must be done, among other things. protect us from abuse by the authorities, but also against abuse by criminals. This is a fundamental democratic value that must be high on the agenda. Then there will also be a question of how to protect the data that actually exists in society, not only in relation to new technologies, which we are now discussing on the occasion of the Data Storage Directive and telecommunications, but also in relation to other areas. One element that has not been mentioned in this debate is the very extensive storage of how we spend money linked to the fact that we are essentially no longer using cash. So here, data is stored for 10 years, and when I see my bank statements, I'm a little worried that someone outside is going to have access to it. And then I'm a little bit worried about how to behave if the authorities are asking for that data. I am not sure that it is well controlled either. One of the important elements of the Data Storage Directive and the debate related to what I seem to be constantly under-communicating is precisely the restriction and intensification of the privacy to which it is put. It is linked to the restriction of access, i.e. a clear restriction on who should actually have access, now to the prosecution authorities and to the police, and to the Financial Supervisory Authority. A court trial, which is not available today, is important to get in place. Not least, it is one of the last moments, on which I welcome a further debate, and there are demands for how these data collected in society are increasingly to be kept in the future, so that they are also protected from burglary and abuse of criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2471	I think I got the jack code in terms of Bård Hoksrud's resistance to the Data Storage Directive. He said clearly that he was of the opinion that there is 21 years of storage today. I suppose he meant 21 days, but as I said, I can understand his resistance on that background. Preventing and investigating serious crime is about legal certainty, but it is also about privacy. I listen to Per Sandberg, and Per Sandberg says two things. First, he says that traffic data has been critical in many major criminal cases. And then he says something else: the access is 'on the way' to disappear. Yeah, that's right. Is there a development the Progress Party will sit still and watch? If the answer is no, what is the option of the Advance Party? In 2005, the Progress Party’s option was to propose mandatory data storage for 12 months. That was a proposal for the whole of the Group of the Party of European Socialists voted in favour. Now the party is left unanswered. I would like to reiterate the challenge of Arve Kambe: what is the alternative to the Data Storage Directive? Finally, I try again: thank you for a dedicated debate! It is quite clear that these questions are important to us. The debate is very clear that even with the same objective, we come to a different conclusion when we balance privacy and other considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2482	The next speaker is the representative of Hans Olav Syversen. Once again, the President will recall Section 38 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, that ‘the speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion’, and that we have a long evening ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2487	I was about to say, has the surveillance come so far that even the president knew my thoughts about what I should have posts about? When she came up with the warning, it may well have been that she had something right in it. I'll be brief, because I don't think the Christian People's Party has spoken before. It is nodded that we have – then I have to be very short. I would like to say that I agree with Mr Haugli's statement that there is a balance between privacy considerations and other considerations. But if it's a one-sided approach to the fight against crime, you should have gone a lot further. If you really think it's the only decisive thing, you should want to monitor at a much higher level than what you're arguing about. I would like to say – now I am not going to extend the debate – that in the last few days' events you should be careful to use all possible income situations for your vision. I think it's almost unworthy when, in my view, you abuse different statements to the kind of arguments we've seen in the last few days. We also saw that when the control committee had the report on organised crime for treatment. This type of argument was also used in this situation as to why this directive had to be introduced. I hope we can get the debate on one – at least in my opinion – a little more sobering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2496	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2499	Given what the President said earlier, I would at least say that the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority is very interesting. There's a lot of interesting and good reading there. To the representative Haugli I would like to say that he has no code broken. He has the broken code that 21 years really was 21 days, but I still believe that there is a long time between 21 days and 6 months. And then I want to challenge that I have registered that neither the Council of State, the representative Haugli, nor any other comment on the fact that the evaluation in the countries that have introduced the Data Storage Directive shows that data is requested to a very small extent that is over six months old. 90 pst. is actually less than six months old. That means something between six months and zero. It's probably where you find what you need to store, and therefore six months is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2508	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2524	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2542	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2560	I'll be brief. I just need to point out that an overall committee in its comment on the Inst. 118 L says: ‘The Committee therefore agrees with the proposal that meetings in the control selections should be open to the press and to the public as a starting point.’ Furthermore, the proposition also suggests that a working group has been set up in the Ministry to follow up the previous treatment of the Storting, which assesses how this can be done in a practical way and which meets the needs of the control committee to carry out its job. I do not believe that there is necessarily a difference in reality here, but the Committee is well aware – at least as I understand it – that the intention of the Left's proposals is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2572	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1747]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2601	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2610	The size shall now address two issues relating to common standards and procedures for the return of third-country nationals without legal residence within the borders of the Schengen area. One case — Case No. 9 – applies to Norwegian accession to the so-called EU Return Directive. The Municipal Committee unanimously agrees with the Stortinget's agreement to accept the Directive and points out in a joint note the benefit of having common European rules on returns. It strengthens the legal certainty of third-country nationals residing in Europe. The suspension has been submitted to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, which gives its assent without further comments. The second, case no. 8 – concerns the necessary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, as a result of our adoption of the Directive. The Committee invited a hearing on 10 November 2010. No one signed up. To stop that no one has counter-conceptions, could have been tempting, but it might be to draw it well far. However, proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act as a result of the Directive have therefore been at the ordinary hearing of the Ministry of Justice, so that the possibility of making views and proposals is respected. The purpose of the Return Directive is important. It shall ensure a common humane and dignified return of people without legal residence in the Schengen Member State. In June this year, the Stortinget addressed a communication on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective, in which we agreed to further work on common minimum standards for asylum and migration policy in Europe, based on international conventions. Then we also said we were willing to participate in the renegotiation of the Dublin Regulation in order to achieve a more solidarity in the distribution of responsibility for people in distress between the countries of Europe. Once we also have common minimum standards for their return without any legal delay, legal certainty for third-country nationals throughout the Schengen area is further strengthened. Minimum standards are minimum standards and do not prevent more liberal national rules on residence for human, humanitarian or other reasons. In a brief article, it is not possible to address all the provisions of the Return Directive that require amendments, or have already been observed in the Foreign Affairs Act, and I refer to Chapter 1 of Prop. 3 L, which gives a good overview of it. I believe that it is important to stress that being without a legal stay does not mean that people have done something wrong. It's e.g. the right to apply for asylum, but should be returned if the application is rejected. However, in some cases it is not that simple. Therefore, an important principle of legal certainty is that a decision on the return shall be taken after an individual assessment, taking into account more factors than the sole fact that the stay is illegal. The principle of protection against return shall be respected. The implementation of the Directive shall also take into account the best interests of children, family life and health. It is already considered covered by Norwegian legislation. But what's best for children is not always as obvious. In the preparatory work of the new Foreign Affairs Act, Stortinget has stated that the best way to give children greater weight is under the new Foreign Affairs Act than under the old one. The government has therefore started a work with a separate message about children in migration. There will be an important debate, because what we know is that children in such matters are always subject to the actions of adults – at good and bad. Among the most vulnerable are unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. It is therefore positive that the legal guarantee for this group is strengthened by a change in the law that forced return can only be made to a family member, an appointed guardian or a satisfactory return device. At the same time, it is important to ensure that voluntary return of lone minors is also carried out in a sound manner. The Directive is based on the fact that, as far as possible, returns should be made on a voluntary basis and that a time limit should be set for departure, but at the same time there are possibilities for the use of coercive agents if some try to avoid return. A new provision lists the factors to be taken into account when deciding whether there is a risk of avoidance. It strengthens the legal certainty of individuals and makes such decisions more predictable. The Committee's position is unanimous, except for a few points where the Advance Party wants a stronger intervention against individuals than the other parties do. They oppose a proposal to reduce the minimum time for refusal of entry to one year. They want an increased period of imprisonment for those who do not cooperate on return, but I assume that the Progress Party itself will present its views on the matter and address its proposal. Otherwise, the Committee's position is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2629	It may seem that we have been discussing the EU directive all day, but this is actually the first EU directive to be dealt with in the Stortingen today – and, to a certain extent, a very important one as well. The Progress Party has long called for a policy in this area that is consistent in many ways with the changes made to the Foreign Affairs Act in implementing the Return Directive. We are in a unanimous committee, but we have, as the rapporteur referred to, proposals on which we stand alone. We are going against a change to Section 71, which is quite correct about the minimum time of the entry ban. We want to keep today's wording in the Foreign Affairs Act in two years' time, while the law now adds up to one year. Furthermore, we are promoting proposals for a new third paragraph of Section 106, which is in line with the government's proposal for the third sentence of the third paragraph, which states that we do not want the 12 week limitation of the government's proposal. We want to make greater use of imprisonment for up to 18 months, which is maximum under the Return Directive. I note that a great deal of what is contained in the Return Directive is in many ways a policy that the Progress Party has put forward and stood for earlier, particularly in connection with the adoption of a new Foreign Law by the Stortinge in the previous period. There were, among other things: This issue of prisoning is a topic. I remember – without going too far in the debates we've had in this room before – that the Progress Party was then accused of breaking international conventions, among others. when we wanted to use more prison. What the Progress Party proposed in its Alternative Foreign Law was, in fact, up to 18 months. That is the same as today's maximum under the Return Directive. It's a little interesting to notice that when the Progress Party proposes about the same thing, it's a disaster and there's a break on the EMK -- what do I know about all the attacks we get against us -- but when a directive now lays down the same principle, then it's a valid policy, a valid coin, from SV to Right. It might be called a progress, isn't it? And in that way, I'm glad that the world is going in the right direction. As I said, the Progress Party is behind the Return Directive. We will go a little further, and we have opportunities to take advantage of a larger space of action in the directive than we have chosen to do. But I record that there is a total accumulation that nevertheless stands together about the big grips that are being done here. I would like to take up with it the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2646	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2649	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen said there was a broad consensus on this from Right to SV. I do not know whether he has redefined the right-left scale in Norwegian policy, but I am pleased that the Progress Party too is so much in favour of this directive. After all, the Storberget Council must be satisfied at least with being able to go through a directive in the Stortinget as efficiently and unanimously as this, in relation to the debate we had in place. So I am pleased with that development, because it is very important that we not only have a single Norwegian political opinion behind such a directive, but that it is actually a common European position on how to deal with these important and difficult issues. The right has joined the Directive. We have some comments with others and on our own. I want to go through these a little bit, because I think it is important that we are also proactive in relation to this directive, that we do a job here in order to be best able to implement the directive in a good way. One of the things I want to draw out then, and as the Progress Party and the Right actually points out together, is that stimulating voluntary returns is the absolutely important thing. It is also the most cost-effective to use such a concept. Being able to get people who have been denied their application, to return to their home country if possible, voluntarily, is a much less painful process of course than an expulsion of coercion. Although a sender with them can get a check or an amount that they can get if they voluntarily return, it becomes much more reasonable than having a police card, having uplifting scenes, etc. So I think it's very important that we're even clearer about stimulating good return arrangements that actually make people realize that their case is tried, it's rejected, and return is the right thing. There we have seen, as far as I register, an increase in voluntary returns as well. That is positive, because that is absolutely what we are most served with and which is, of course, the most humane. At the same time, however, this directive sets out a very clear framework for dealing with people who oppose cooperation, how to deal with the situation that arises when someone has been rejected, and they actually do not want to return voluntarily. I'm glad that it's then possible to use more tools, that it's possible to show that here the community is actually behind it, that if you cooperate, you get goodwill, you get the opportunity to return in a dignified way. But if you refuse to cooperate, your rights should be restricted in terms of being able to move freely in relation to spending a long time on new processes. In this way, I look forward to continuing to examine the procedure at the foreign agencies, at UDI and UNE, with appeals, with requests for conversion, etc. If a person manages to streamline it in a humane and legal certainty, it will be much clearer for asylum seekers or asylum seekers that it is in Norway that you have the right to asylum, then you will be granted a residence permit, you will have a good introduction system, you will have the opportunity to participate in the labour market, in education, etc. If you are not entitled to asylum, you can at least return to your home country in a tidy manner with the assistance of the Norwegian authorities in various ways. But if you don't want to cooperate, it's a little bit harder pinch, and I think that's good. I spoke completely away from my script, but I don't think it does anything, because there is a broad consensus on this matter. It's eye-catchingly broad consensus, I think. That's very good. It gives a signal that in Norway we now have an overall view of the return policy. We have an overall view that we support the European Return Directive, and we send a signal that we are united on an effective but humane return policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2662	The Christian People's Party is positive about the implementation of the Return Directive. The rules will create a viable framework and a good return system for third-country nationals. However, I would like to make some comments on the matter and first remind you that this is a minimum standard directive. Norway should always play the role of being a transitory country when it comes to legal certainty and human rights. A provision for return is a return agreement with the respective country. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the government continues its work on return agreements. In particular, it is important that returns are made in accordance with the recommendations of the United Nations. As a matter of principle, it seems wrong to imprison people who have not committed a criminal offence and who are not to be prosecuted but who are to be forced to return. The Christian People's Party would like to stress that loss of peace should only be used where necessary, and with the shortest possible duration. We also want children, families with children and other vulnerable groups to avoid being imprisoned. Asylum children, children who migrate themselves or with their families, are already in an outmoded situation. The Christian People's Party's attitude is that presented from the government of this document, does not secure their children's corrections well enough. I have to admit that I'm a little worried about these changes in law in practice weakening the rights of children in Norway. In that case, it'll be a development that we can't accept. The prison rules proposed will be a step towards criminalising the asylum process. This is very unfortunate in view of Norway's international legal obligations to protect people in delayed situations. It may also seem that the main focus and purpose of the new initiatives is to scare people from seeking asylum in Norway and Europe. It is alarming that it will be opened so that people can stay locked up for 18 months in connection with the return. Prisoning for such a long period can be difficult to make proportional in relation to the action of the foreigner. In many cases, it will also not be necessary for the person to return it to prison. That's why I'm going to tell you that no children are going to have to leave their homes. Children who are on the run tend to be met with care and dignity. No children should be thrown into prison because they have come to Norway to seek asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2673	I thought I would take the floor just briefly to note that here there is a broad consensus in the return policy. It is exciting to follow up and actively participate in European policies in this area. In any case, it is extremely important that we, as wholesalers in Norway, who are outside the EU, do so. For this reason, there is clearly a tension in the EU between those who have a very strong legal certainty development on the one hand, and those who want a development that focuses primarily on keeping people out of Europe. There, I believe that the Norwegian Parliament should take a clear position and be on the legal security side – which ensures that people applying for asylum in Europe are granted their rights, because it is about a number of fundamental things. We discussed fundamental rights and principles instead, in the previous debate we had. This is also about the same thing. It is about the basic protection against being subjected to inhuman treatment in other countries. I understand the concern of the Christian People's Party that some people talk about applying for asylum in Norway or in other countries in Europe as being almost criminal. It's not. It is a fundamental right after the Refugee Convention to which we are widely associated here in the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is constantly calling into question the accession of the Refugee Convention. And this is about the fundamental human rights – that is, protection from inhuman treatment. I also took the floor to say a very brief thing about the fact that Per-Willy Amundsen here did a number that we are now taking part in the things that lie here when it comes to broadcasting: Per Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party have always been in charge of a policy that involves the imprisonment of all asylum seekers throughout the asylum process. It is a policy that I believe will be inhumane. Then we really end up in the booth that the representative of the Christian People's Party was in here instead, namely that we are criminalising people who are asylum seekers, because the most severe reaction we have as a society to individuals is imprisonment or detention. And if we are to send a signal to the world that we believe that all the people who come and apply for asylum deserve imprisonment and detention, then we are sending a very clear signal to the world. Sending such a kind of signal I will take a strong distance from. I believe that when we base what we are doing here, namely that we should have basic legal security guarantees in place in connection with both detention, expulsion and everything possible, it is a line that I think it is good that we stand for, and I am not surprised that the Progress Party does not really want to join that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2682	Let me first express my satisfaction that we are able to gather on such an important element as the return aspect of Norwegian refugee policy. It is absolutely crucial, and it is gratifying that we are so united to be able to accept the directive that is now under consideration, to sail if you can think about it too, because this is a directive that really affects people's rights and, to the extent that it also has consequences for how people should live their lives, to the greatest extent. As noted by the representative of Greece, this was also a central measure in the Single European Act that was addressed on European policies in this area. I believe it is absolutely crucial – I have said it in previous debates and I am now saying it – if we are to have an effective policy, that we are able to coordinate some of the rules that apply in this area in Europe. Returning plays a very important role – we also see it in Norway – in creating an impact in asylum policy. It is gratifying that even now in Norway the number of returnees has been raised and the negative decisions that actually exist have been implemented. In this way, I believe that the Return Directive is also, in many ways, a good review of the legislation we have, which should not least help to ensure that people who are in a very difficult situation and who have actually received negative decisions, but for that reason are not criminals, will be granted their rights when the decision is to be implemented. That's the basis for stressing it. Norway may not have had the biggest problems implementing this Directive, but it may be a good many other European countries that really need to work to implement it. In this way, I am also pleased with the recordings that came from the Christian People's Party. I mean that's what you're supposed to bring with you. We'll have a good opportunity next year to discuss those questions, especially related to children, which I think are absolutely crucial. I do not think there is any particular difference in what the representative, Mr Ropstad, has now pointed out about the need for child protection and coercive use against children. I think that is really well taken care of. The government emphasises that foreigners who have to leave Norway travel on a voluntary basis. The representative of Trond Helleland was in on it, and I fully agree with his assessments about this. It is best both for the foreigner and for the authorities. In some situations, reactions such as expulsion or use of coercion are necessary for return. The implementation of the Return Directive implies the adoption of a decision on expulsion with a future entry ban in more cases than at present against foreigners who are illegally resident. Accordingly, following the Directive and the legislative proposal, a decision on expulsion must be taken if the foreigner is not granted a period of voluntary return or the foreigner does not comply with the exit period. The Ministry has then estimated that the Directive will lead to about 750 more expulsion decisions each year. So it has consequences. In the case of single minors, legal certainty is reinforced by the fact that it is stated in the law that returns can only be made if a lone minor can be returned to a family member, a nominated guardian or to another sound provision of care. The Ministry has assessed the rules on imprisonment under the Foreign Affairs Act in relation to the Directive. After the Directive, imprisonment can only take place for a period longer than six months if the foreigner does not cooperate in the posting or there are delays in obtaining the necessary documents from the authorities of another country. The rule under the Foreign Affairs Act today is that imprisonment should not take place for more than 12 weeks unless there are specific reasons. It will primarily be situations where non-residents do not cooperate in return or where the delay is caused by the home Member State authorities that there will be more than 12 weeks of imprisonment today. The Ministry has therefore proposed to maintain the general rule that imprisonment should not take place for more than 12 weeks in total, rather than extending the prison period to six months, even if the directive as such would have allowed it to do so. Furthermore, in line with the Directive’s requirements, the Ministry has proposed that, even in cases where it can be detained for a period longer than 12 weeks, no longer than 18 months, which is the maximum period after the Directive. I would like to stress that the proposal of the Progress Party that there should be no limit to the prison period other than the maximum limit of 18 months in this way is directly contrary to the Directive. I would also like to stress that the clarification contained in the legislative proposal on what elements may be particularly relevant when assessing whether there is a risk of avoidance both reinforces the legal certainty of the foreigner by providing guidance on the content of the assessment, and at the same time makes it clear that, among other things, it does. are entitled to pay attention to whether the foreigner has been penalised or is responsible for serious disturbances of the order of the person receiving asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2711	Now we have a framework, an EU directive with Norwegian implementation, around this with the return work. At the same time, we know that a very important factor for getting voluntary returns is that Norway actually has return agreements with countries. I could actually imagine asking the Council of State to explain a little bit about how the work goes on these return agreements? Is there any new land going on? Is there any new agreement being concluded, or is it working on a return agreement? This is, of course, an important factor in ensuring a smooth management of the voluntary return that everyone believes is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2719	I'm glad to get that question, because I fully agree. It's one of the most important things we do. One thing is to get the return agreements; another thing is to make them work. We have put a lot of emphasis on this, for example. in contact with Iraqi authorities, where we have a return agreement. The return to Afghanistan has been discussed both here in Norway and Kabul, where I have met representatives of the government. Today, we have also concluded 26 return agreements, and several of these return agreements that we have concluded recently are, of course, related to countries from which we get asylum seekers, of course – especially when linked to where visa freedom is now being granted, it must be ensured by having a return agreement. We saw how important it was in relation to Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia – well, where Norway was ready, fast out with the 48-hour deadline for processing applications and the 72-hour deadline for sending them. We saw that the number of asylum seekers sank. This year we have concluded two or three new agreements with Armenia, Kosovo and Kazakhstan, so this work is under heavy pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2726	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9. [[Votation, see pages 1747 and 1748]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2744	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1749]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2761	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1749]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2777	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2784	Today, the size of the population deals with three legislative proposals, all of which have, in whole or in part, a content related to the introduction of a new age pension in the population from the turn of the year. The causes are also related to the treatment of the State budget. Some of the proposals are straightforward and unproblematic to support, while others are more difficult. In several of the proposals, therefore, there is not a consensual committee either. The three government parties support all the proposals made by the government, the Progress Party has its own proposals, while the Christian People's Party and the Right oppose one of the proposals. I would like briefly to comment on the most important proposals. It is positive that parental benefits, maternity benefits and maternity-related sickness benefits are now to be included as labour income in the minimum income requirement for daily benefits. This will mean that more women in particular will be entitled to a daily allowance when they become unemployed. Many people may not be equally satisfied with the removal of the special rules on the right to daily benefits that we now have for employees over 64 years of age. However, the plurality of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, has come to the conclusion that this is an acceptable change. The special rules may lead to day money being used as early retirement and to a later saving of the old-age pension. A large proportion of employees will be entitled to flexible retirement or new AFP from the new year and will be able to benefit from it. They will also be entitled to daily allowance for up to two years, according to common rules applicable to other and younger workers. There will also be a transitional arrangement for those who are already in the system, so they won't get any change in 2011. The Christian People's Party supports the change, but we think it's especially important to follow the way the change will turn out, and whether it gets bad effects. It is particularly important that Nav uses resources to track these jobseekers well, so that most people can get to work. The Government, with the support of the Government Party, is proposing a tightening of the legislation on sickness benefits from social security to people over 67 years of age. Today, people over 67 years of age who take out an old age pension have a limited entitlement to sickness benefit: 60 days if their income exceeds 2 G. Now a corresponding one is introduced for those who have not chosen to withdraw their old age pension. This is a bad senior measure, and therefore the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right do not support the amendment of the law. Many workers are entitled to full pay under sickness through collective agreements. It shall apply, inter alia, to: in the State tariff area and by others following this legislation. This means that the law changes will shift costs to employers, while the population saves money. In the view of the Christian People's Party, this is not an action that will stimulate employers to add older workers. With the one hand, a pension scheme, which means that everyone needs to be stimulated to work longer to get the same pension as in the previous system. That's good. But with the other hand, the government is now making it harder for those who want to work longer. As a result, some people may be forced to withdraw a pension before they have thought. Then one did not succeed with the intentions behind, among other things. Pension reform. During the spring of 2011, the government will present a hearing note with a broad review of the legislation on the relationship between short-term benefits and retirement pensions for people over 62 years of age. It is unfortunate, in my opinion, that there have not been any final arrangements before the Pension Reform takes effect. In this context, there should also be a thorough review of the entire senior policy. There is a need to review measures that stimulate longertime work and employers to employ senior citizens. The design of the legislation and its impact on senior policy must be considered in particular. The government proposes to limit the length of redundancy payments for people who have received sickness benefits for a certain period of time for the last three years and who are unemployed and for those who are not in active treatment or who are taking part in labour law measures. The cancer unit has pointed out in the hearing that this may affect some cancer patients with a long duration of treatment and slow development. The Christian People's Party is uncertain about how the law change can turn out. However, when we choose to support the change, we assume that the Ministry will look at this issue more closely and assess the need to extend the derogation. It is important that people in such situations have security of living without becoming dependent on economic social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2807	Taking into account the time of the day, I will confine myself to a few brief comments, especially on the special rules for daily allowances for people over 64 years of age, which are now being removed. In my opinion, this obliges the employment and welfare movement to place equal emphasis on older jobseekers as on younger ones. In this respect, I recall that the reason for the introduction of specific rules for the unemployed over 64 years of age was that it was found more difficult to provide work to older jobseekers. I therefore do not ignore the need for specific labour market measures for jobseekers over 62 years of age who want to remain in work. When the specific rules are phased out in the next year, I consider it appropriate to repeat that the majority of the committee, that is, all parties except the Progress Party, assumes that no one will be without a performance in 2011. In other words, no one should have to seek social assistance as a result of the repeal of the specific rules. I also assume that, as promised, Nav will follow up the unemployed over 64 years of age and that this is reported separately. I guess the department will find an opportunity to report on to the Stortinget. At one point in this aggregate proposition, there is also disagreement between the settlement lots. Sickness benefits apply to workers aged 67 to 70 years. There is no disagreement that everyone who has retirement income should be fully entitled to sickness benefits up to 67 years of age, even if they also take out old-age pensions and the AFP in the private sector. That's when the employees turn 67 years of age the disagreement arises. Here the government and government parties believe that the sick pay should reasonably be reduced to 60 days, provided that the income of the labour exceeds twice the basic amount of the social security. Once the employee has reached the age of 70, no sickness benefit may be required. I assume that the minority parties will then argue for their position. Finally, I would like to point out that people who receive active treatment during periods, participate in work-oriented measures or receive other follow-up must also be guaranteed the right to work clearance. It also applies if they have previously received such a benefit and have become ill again. Among others, this may apply to cancer patients. With the changes that are now being made in the legislation, I guess these are captured.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2820	For the sake of order, first of all, allow me to make the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own or in conjunction with others, so that the proposals have at least been taken up. Otherwise, let me start with the changes proposed in relation to the health insurance legislation, especially for those who have not taken out a retirement pension from 67 to 70 years of age. The Progress Party fully agrees with the arguments used by the rapporteur, and that is why we have also joined it in the form of a note and, together with the Right and Christian People's Party, we are promoting an alternative proposal for a decision today. I think it's a little strange to add to a new reform, as has been pointed out, which should motivate more people to stand longer in work, while at the same time not having the same rights as other professionals because they have passed a certain age. I think with respect to report that it is age-discriminatory, and that is not in line with good senior policy, at my discretion. That is the reason why the Progress Party is promoting this proposal. In the case of redundancy payments, the Progress Party also chooses to make its own proposal there. The reason for this is that we have listened to, among other things: The Cancer Association, as well explained by the rapporteur. We've come to the opposite conclusion and think it might make sense, as suggested, to have an extension from 6 months to 1 year, just because many people need longer time to come back. I think it's important to give people that opportunity instead of maybe trying for 6 months, they're stopping, and then they become what I call forced retirement and/or disability. In the case of supplementary benefits, I refer to our remarks both in the budgetary position and in previous debates. We believe that this is an area that should be transferred to the municipality, and believe that the changes that are being made now are to link this benefit more closely to the pension system. With regard to daily allowances, I note what the representative from the Workers' Party says, that we should ensure that no one is left without benefits. Then my question is, what kind of performances are you going to make sure? Everyone, except the Advance Party, supports the changes in the law. You remove the special rules. That means they can't get a day's money. What are the other types of benefits? Well, that means that they are either transferred to a pension — almost against their will by having to take out early retirement, because there are no other means of securing income — or they have to receive a disability pension. The Progress Party seems to be an incredibly wrong way to go, and we believe that it is also entirely illogical in relation to what is set out in the pension reform, and in relation to the fact that it is going to pay off longer in work. Here, at my discretion, they should be kept the special rules. With that, I have taken up our proposals and made the reasons for our voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2837	The representative Robert Eriksson has addressed the proposals he referred to – it also includes the proposal on which the Christian People's Party and the Right are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2840	In this proposition, the government has presented proposals for changes to the Law on Social Security and some other laws. The substantive changes in the Law on Social Security are mainly linked to the 2011 draft budget and to the introduction of a new age pension. In addition, some legislative adjustments, clarifications and corrections are also proposed in the Swedish Social Security Act, the Labour Market Act and the Social Welfare Administration Act. In order to strengthen women’s rights to daily allowances, the Government proposes to take maternity benefits, maternity-related sickness benefits and parental benefits into the qualifying basis for entitlement to daily benefits. The amendment strengthens female workers in pregnancy and childbirth. The Government proposes to repeal special rules for day-care recipients aged 64 or more. The abolition of special rules means that the legislation on day-to-day pay for the elderly is similar to that for the other beneficiaries of the day-to-day pay. In order to ensure predictability for beneficiaries already affected by the specific rules, the Government proposes a transitional period of one year. The Ministry of Labour will ask the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to follow the unemployed in this group in particular, as many have said in this Chamber earlier, with a view to helping those who need it to get back to work. The introduction of a flexible old-age pension into the social security system from 62 years of age gives freedom to combine labour and pension income without any curtailment. In the proposal, the government proposes that the daily allowance should not be coordinated against the old age pension and the new AFP in the private sector and that the redundancy allowance should not be coordinated against the old age pension. The new old-age pension also means that it is necessary to make adjustments to the health insurance legislation from 1 January 2011 for persons over 62 years of age. The Government proposes that persons between the age of 62 and 67 continue to enjoy full health insurance rights as at present. Persons between 67 and 70 years of age with an income of over 2 G receive a limited entitlement to sickness benefit for up to 60 days regardless of whether or not an old-age pension has been taken out. A minority opposes this last proposal and believes that a higher cost is shifted to employers who pay full wages under illness. It is true that people between 62 and 70 years of age who do not take out an old age pension have full health insurance rights today. In practice, however, few or none will benefit from not withdrawing an old age pension at 67 years after today’s rules. Pension withdrawals also do not prevent you from earning a higher pension up to 70 years. As a result, there is nothing to lose on taking out an old-age pension, and for most people sick pay up to 60 days next to a full old-age pension will give you a higher total payment than just sick pay. The proposal also proposes that the period during which a person may receive a redundancy allowance without fulfilling the requirement that the working capacity be reduced by at least half or the requirement that a person be in need of treatment, work-oriented measures or other follow-up from the seat of employment and welfare should be limited to six months. Persons who, after the six months, need assistance to get into work will be able to receive redundancy payments according to the general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2855	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2871	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2880	Both the seafarers’ organisations and the Fiskers’ team are very pleased that today the Storting makes changes to the pension scheme for seafarers and fishermen. Pension schemes are now adapted to the pension reform. Neither the seafarer's pension nor the fisherman's pension shall be adjusted or coordinated. Seafarers' pension is an early retirement for the age group from 60 to 66 years. It includes Norwegian citizens and persons permanently resident in Norway who have been employed on Norwegian ships and mobile devices above 100 gross tonnes, registered in Norwegian registers. At the end of the year, the pension scheme included approximately 28 000 seafarers. Fishermen's pension includes all fishermen who are registered on page B of the fishing manual, which means that they have fishing and fishing as full-time workers. The fishing pension is an early retirement for fishermen aged 60 to 66 years and includes about 10 200 fishermen. In the introduction of a new pension scheme from 1 January 2011, mariners’ and fishermen’s pensions could be provided in full alongside old-age pensions when they are taken out before the age of 67, i.e. no coordination. However, current coordination rules apply to all those who have withdrawn the AFP before 1 January 2011 and to the AFP in the public sector. Seafarers’ and fishermen’s pensions are not coordinated with new AFPs in the private sector. Seafarer’s pension and fishing pension shall be regulated annually as most other statutory pension schemes, i.e. with the wage growth of society less than 0,75 pst. Although this results in a lower level of purchasing power relative to the wage growth of the economically active, both seafarers and fishermen will be ensured a good and stable purchasing power development, in line with other pensioners. As part of the seafarer’s pension scheme, a transitional allowance is provided to old-age pensioners in cases where the seafarer’s pension is higher than the old-age pension. The transitional allowance corresponds to the difference between a seafarer’s pension and an old-age pension. At present, the Storting imposes a claim for a loss of income for redundancy payments and invalidity pensions. I don't think the concept of loss of income is found in Norwegian dictionaries. This means, however, that people who have reached the age of 62 must have lost income in the order of the basic amount of the population’s wealth, i.e. about 75 000 DKK in the last year, in order to seek redundancy benefits and disability benefits. This means that up to 60 people could lose the right to work clearance, and up to 300 people could lose the right to disability benefit. To the extent that this will help more people increase their job fractions and stand longer in position, it will strengthen the working line. However, to the extent that this leads to the fact that someone in small positions without full rights in old age is forced into a long-term low age pension, it is unfortunate. I therefore do not underestimate the concerns associated with this proposal. However, taking into account that during 2011, the government will have a review of temporary social security benefits with a view to avoiding duplication of benefits, we support the government’s proposal today. I assume that in this context, the Department will look into the consequences of this requirement and avoid any adverse effects from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2895	The Progress Party also agrees with the changes made to the Seafarer's Pension and Retirement Allowance, except for the regulatory principles of the Payment Period. I just refer there to our remarks, and that we will go against the paragraphs that make that kind of changes. So to the area where you have some disagreement, and which the case-rapporteur was also involved, that is, this with short-term benefits. And once again, I think it is a pity to get cases about temporary legislation with so little opportunity for good proceedings. The Committee has also had a few days to review the matter. And I notice what the department itself says, that short-term performance is challenging for the reform. If you are to be able to have proper treatment and give democracy the opportunity to function optimally, it is absolutely essential that you be allowed to get involved in matters. This is not the first time that pension matters have been submitted to the Committee. At the same time, it is now beginning to be a good time since the principles, legislation, came into place in the case of a new age pension. There should have been relatively good time in the ministry, and also on the part of the government, to go through these legislative changes, to make adjustments and to allow the Committee a much more thorough and fairer procedure. Exactly this is said so many times from this pulpit that I thought the government might have taken it over, and took it with it in its further work. It's said time and time again that you have to do it, but it doesn't happen. I think that's a shame. In addition, I register that I will return to the short-term benefits during 2011 with a permanent code. That's good and good, and I look forward to it, but at the same time this complicates even more, because you have a lot of temporary legislation where you don't even have the opportunity to see the whole of the pension reform, and what kind of outcome this will give to the different groups – precisely because you take things piece by piece and split and break it out of a larger context. With this, I've explained the paragraphs we're going against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2908	First, I would like to begin by commending the rapporteur who made a good contribution and an important contribution. I would like to ask the Department and the Council of State to take note of the comments made by the President-in-Office, and I would like to get a little bit more into it in my article. The chairman of the committee, Robert Eriksson, said that it was ‘wrong’ that the matter came so late to Stortinget. I would like to say that it is very critical that the matter came so late. That's about. a month ago the matter was brought before Stortinget. This case concerns individuals who are getting their living conditions worse compared to what they would get from benefits under the applicable law. It has been a long time since the adoption and follow-up of the pension reform. The government has long known when it was going to take effect. That is why I believe it is critical that the proposition has not been submitted to the Storting before. I believe that the government has put Stortinget in a completely impossible situation, because either we had to sit there without a law or be forced to have an irresponsible procedure. To me, the government seems to feel that it can do what it wants to do to the Storting just because it has a majority. And that's a way of dealing with the Storting, which I think is critical. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals concerning the retirement of seafarers and fishermen, and those relating to supplementary social benefits. However, we do not support the proposal to introduce income loss requirements in order to be able to receive redundancy payments and disability pensions for people over 62 years of age. I understand that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the legislation for all short-term benefits and the relationship between them and the new age pension for people over 62 years of age. I think many in the committee have thought this has been a difficult problem, and look forward to discussing it more, but it should have happened a lot earlier. I cannot understand the need to introduce the rules that you are now proposing until you have received the detailed note that the government says will be coming in the spring of 2011. I think one should take the time to wait for that note before one chooses to make these changes. For this reason, changes relating to a few people are: they are approx. 80 in the case of redundancy payments, and approx. 300 in the case of disability benefits. There are smaller savings in the payments made from the two benefits, a negligible increase in the payments for economic social assistance and a certain administrative extra burden for Nav, according to the proposition. Or in my words, it's zero to save, but there's more bureaucracy and more to do for Nav, who already has more than enough to do. But for the individuals, it can mean a reduction in living standards for the rest of their lives. The flexible old-age pension becomes a coercive rather than a voluntary good. That will not be the case with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2923	The rapporteur has given a good account of the content of the proposal presented here today. I have noticed that the representative, like the chairman of the committee, has noticed that there has been a short time to deal with this proposition. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that the Committee is now considering the matter and that the proposed legislative amendments can be adopted in such a way that they are implemented from 1 January – from the same time as the pension reform. After all, the work on pension reform has been going on for several years and is based on broad political settlements in the United Kingdom. The reform contributes to ensuring a sustainable pension system in the future as well, and broad support for the reform is important. The pension system is an important pillar of welfare in the country and changes in the pension system will have an effect on many for a long time in the future. From 1 January, flexible withdrawals of old-age pensions will be possible for those over 62 years of age. Pensions are adjusted by their standard of living and the annual regulation of pensions is detached from the basic amount of the population. The pensioners will continue to be guaranteed a good purchasing power. The new rules of social security require adaptations to the early retirement schemes for seafarers and fishermen and to the supplementary benefit scheme. With this proposal, a seafarer's pension and a fisherman's pension may be granted in addition to an old-age pension from the age of 62 to 67 years. In addition, a seafarer's pension and a fisherman's pension during payment shall be regulated as an old-age pension in social security. It is also announced that a wider review of the arrangements will be carried out with a view to finding lasting adaptations to the new rules in the area of public health. In the supplementary social security scheme, the beneficiaries of the social security scheme shall be guaranteed the minimum level of social security. In the new pension scheme, the special supplement and the minimum pension are not continued. The minimum benefit will be a defined minimum pension level and the measurement of supplementary benefit must be linked to this. It is also proposed to regulate supplementary social benefits corresponding to the minimum level of pensions. I have noticed that the Advance Party is going in order that additional social benefits continue to be regulated in line with the basic amount. The result would be that today's minimum-pension old-age pensioners would gradually switch to supplementary social benefits, and that would be pointless. As with the introduction of the scheme, additional social benefits should continue to be equal to the minimum pension level in the social security system. As indicated in the budget, it is proposed to introduce a requirement for a loss of income for the right to work clearance and disability pension for persons over 62 years of age. However, it is proposed that the requirement should not apply if the member does not receive benefits as a surviving spouse at the minimum pension level or is not entitled to full retirement pension. In addition, some proposals of a more technical nature have been made. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals that are under consideration today. This proposal will take an important step forward with adjustments in the pension system to a new age pension from social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2945	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1752]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2961	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. The President will also propose that there should be no change of line, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2968	This is a rather unproblematic matter of balancing the 2010 budget, and there are no comments. I see that the Progress Party will have the word afterwards, and they can do their best for their one proposal and some other comments. But once I've gone up to the pulpit, I'll make some comments around Nav, because after the state budget was presented, there are a set of challenges that have come to mind in different states. One has experienced that there are leaders at the Nav office who have resigned their position in protest against irresponsible promises to the operating budget. I have to say that worries me. Nav is one of the most important tools we have to create well-being, to help people get back to work and to meet people in a good way and give them the help they need. Nav not working optimally is not a novelty. But I have to say that, from the Christian People's Party's point of view, Nav has made significant progress, and much works well. But when one sees the signals that are coming, it's like the promises at a time when one started to get things going, they were cut out in the local Nav offices. Thus, it was extra big challenges to achieve the goal of avoiding redundancies, getting people back to work, helping with job satisfaction, etc. For this reason, I would just like to inform you that from the Christian People's Party – in the position of the Financial Committee and its ageing there – there will be more funds for Nav in the budget that can be transferred to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2975	First of all, I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting, in which we have proposed that 14 million be allocated. For further information, please contact the Petroleum Inspectorate – in the light of the information received, including: on TV November 26th. It is regrettable that the information is given at such a time that it cannot be dealt with in ordinary budgetary proceedings, which should, of course, have been taken up. That is why we are also proposing whether our proposal should be given a majority, that these funds should be transferred to 2011. But given that the Council of State will have the floor after me, I would like to ask three questions that the Council of State might be able to answer, relating to the allocations of the Petroleum Authority. I refer first and foremost to a letter sent from Ketil Solvik-Olsen, where the Council of State says in its letter of reply: ‘However, as far as I can see, the Petroleum Authority has not expressed an immediate need for increased staffing if it is to be able to carry out its duties satisfactorily, as the representative Solvik-Olsen claims.’ I refer to the letter that the undersigned has sent to the Council of State on 8 December, which we have not received an answer to yet, and perhaps I can get the answers to those questions in the Chamber here. Can the Council of State confirm or decline that no 22 new posts are needed at any time in connection with the State budget work? And further, is it possible for the Labour and Social Committee for the future to obtain a copy of any input that comes into budgetary procedure? Does the State Council believe that the Petroleum Control Authority has provided incorrect information in connection with the TV 2 launch on 26 November? I hope the Council of State can give complementary answers to those questions, which may also be clear from the voting we will do later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2994	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e2997	I did not intend to take the floor in this matter, but I have now received some direct questions from Robert Eriksson that I will try to answer. It's clear that the ministry gets a number of input into the budget process, and it wouldn't be right for me to go into specific input. It is our opinion that the current resource situation of the Petroleum Authority is considered sufficient to deal with the current tasks and challenges. Within the framework of the supervision, it is provided that the Petroleum Authority shall have flexibility and capacity to deal with new cases at short notice as a result of the events that occur. We receive half-yearly supervisory reports, and they have confirmed that they are on track according to the leads given in the letter of assignment, even though the department has had to give strict priority because of the follow-up to various activities related to the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. The supervisory director has pointed out to TV 2 that due to a merger between Statoil and Hydro, supervision has followed Statoil closely and will still need to prioritise it. It does not, however, imply that supervision does not spend time on other and important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1755]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3020	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3029	It is an important proposal promoted by the representatives of the Christian People's Party in terms of better conditions and simplification for small businesses. The importance is also underlined by the fact that it is not the first time this debate is held in this Chamber in the autumn. There have been representative proposals, there have been questions, there have been interpellations – and the reason is obvious: it is very slow, whether there has been any progress in simplification at all. There is considerable industrial impatience, particularly among small and medium-sized enterprises. They know this best. They have little capacity for form work, bureaucracy and reporting. Often, the background and competence are also limited, and you would rather not buy expensive help to get this done. The Committee is composed of only one opinion of importance for SMEs. But I'm going to stick to it a little bit, because this is about setting a quantifiable goal for the simplification work. As the proposers of the Christian People's Party wish, it is believed that this can create a noticeable and measurable change for the better in the company's everyday lives. It actually joins the committee. It's a straw straw, because it's not said anything about when it's going to happen. But for the companies, it's the only straw they've had to stay in lately, and that's why I think it's an important message. But there is reason for great concern when the government will get this work going. We know that both the Council of State and the Chairman of the Committee have promised that the audit obligation will be removed for small businesses. But so far, companies go completely unknowingly into their new year of operations, or whether they will establish themselves in 2011, without knowing the least about what that matter will bring. The only thing I've read in the media is that you believe in the ministry that it's time to continue to adopt a removal of the audit obligation, because the companies don't choose the auditor until 30 June. At best, it's unknowing to dismiss it that way. It holds in the world of formality, but not in reality. Unfortunately, it is a constant feature of the government that the positive statements that come are when the media bring things up. In practice, nothing happens. What has happened lately is that the Council of States is also now drawing the potential for simplification in doubt and will define it in a different way. New methods are to be developed, and I understand that the Council of State is going abroad to figure this out. At the latest, I saw in Today's Business on Saturday that the Council of State had been in Denmark and the Netherlands. He made relatively surprising messages, after writing to the committee earlier that these are countries that have come a long way in their work on simplification and that have reduced by 25 pst. So now I read that this is not something to compare with, because they had a starting point that was very bad, and only now is approaching Norwegian level. I think I would recommend the government and the Council of State to document both our own level and the level of others, before going further in this matter. The representatives of the Christian People's Party propose a number of important measures in the document. It concerns the setting of dimensions of 25 pst. The audit obligation applies to small companies. This applies to the simplified share law. And there are minor changes in the Working Environment Act to make it less risky with employment in small businesses. Some words about that, for it dismisses quite the scrambled by the red-greens in the notes, who write that it leads to a happy and loyal, fixed-employment workbook. It certainly does. But think a little about the risk of hiring employees for new-born entrepreneurs. This is the largest investment and commitment ever made in small businesses. Right agrees and supports the direction of many of the proposals of the Christian People's Party, and we will vote for most. The Progress Party also promotes a number of suggestions in the vote. They have supported the Right before, when the matter was discussed in the Financial Committee a year ago. We have asked for a review and evaluation of all the proposals, so we do not take a specific position on them in this position. I am addressing the suggestions we are making in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3044	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3047	We red-green are concerned that companies and their owners have good and sustainable framework conditions for creating values and jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises make up a large part of the enterprises in Norway, and figures from the SSB show that enterprises with fewer than 100 added amount to more than 99 pst. of the country's total head offices. This is why the government has taken a number of measures to look at and put in place measures precisely for simplification and to put in place good, long-term and robust framework conditions. Norway is the world's eighth best country to start, own and run business, so something good must have been done by this government, since it has ruled for the last six years. This is similar to the fact that we are once again in the hands of the world's best country to live in. I don't know any other countries that are at the top of both of these parameters. We got a report in the last week where Norway was highlighted as a reporting tax haven. It was a report from the World Bank. In that report, it says, among other things: that a typical Norwegian company owner spends less time paying taxes and taxes than that of other countries and trading partners. Isn't this great? And it is in spite of the fact that we have both property taxes and extensive VAT arrangements in Norway. We don't have a rule board either. We have even had a finance minister from SV in this period. It is a little difficult to get exactly what the square decisions are that makes it risky for small businesses to add in fixed settings. Is it shown here that the red-green government has reversed the previous government's brutalization of working life and securing workers' rights? The ability to increase working time to 13 hours per day was reversed. Increased use of overtime and impairment of job protection was reversed. Furthermore, there was no greater possibility of temporary additions or weakening the trustees' influence. The red-green government has repeatedly shown that we are working with the employees. We work with and not against. We shall continue to do so in the future as well. Norway has loyal employees, and Norwegian workers are very productive. The Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation is important to last, and here I really believed the Christian People's Party was on the government's side. Many of the proposals here today have been discussed up to a great many times, and an ever-returning theme is tax-free. When the committee was in Singapore now in the fall, we heard that they were super-fast in re-regulating and planning for food development. This job is the municipality of Norway. Some, e.g. Taking away the wealth tax will weaken the local economy by about 9 billion. kr. It is difficult to see that municipalities will be able to deal with several spatial planning issues with the strenghtening of their financial capacity. Some of what's good about Norway is that there's little difference between people. Does the Christian People's Party really want a society where there is a job protection for those who work in small businesses and one for those who work in large companies? There's going to be a competitive advantage for the big ones, to whom everyone wants to apply. Who wants to be temporarily added? We have discussed the removal of property taxes and inheritance taxes many times. I just want to point two things on behalf of us red-green. It is precisely the sitting government that has actually done something about the taxes on wealth, so that approx. 500,000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth now than under the Landevik government. The tax on wealth also means that the wealthiest pay taxes and so help legitimize the tax system, where everyone is going to contribute. In several debates, we have heard the Right saying that there are other ways of taking the zero-tax payers than taxes on wealth. However, I have not heard any specific suggestions about what this is, but I am looking forward to it coming. The idea behind the apprenticeship requirement is very good. But as I read §3-11, this intention is all preserved in today's law. In fact, when it comes to reducing form fields, the Committee agrees on a quantifiable objective. It's good to end with what we're all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3077	The representatives of the Christian People's Party have promoted a number of good and constructive proposals. As case rapporteur Fleet was about, we have debated this now for some time now relatively many times, but as I said it just shows both the commitment and not least the fact that things are happening very late. It is clear that we can try to track down the debate, as the last representative Heggo did, and talk about this proposal being a brutalised working life. Then, perhaps, was it also brutalized with the workers' party-supported Bondevik government? Because even though the representative said that the Progress Party supported the Bondevik government, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party was in and supported the Bondevik government in one of the budgets they had there. So we'll see which of these budgets was the most brutal, on which the representative was in. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is dealing with alone in the vote. The background for their renewed promotion, which the fleet representative had in mind, is that in the period following its promotion. nothing happened. You're standing almost on the ground resting, and I hope something's about to start happening. I also hope that the travels to the Council of State — both to Denmark and the Netherlands and elsewhere — will give inspiration to get a little faster, even more suggestions, so that we can move forward. The representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party also promote proposal No. 28: «The government is asked to consider removing the audit obligation for small enterprises.» The background to the non-participation of the Progress Party is that we have already for too long been promoting a proposal for a representative to remove the audit obligation for companies with a turnover of less than 5 million. kr. Furthermore, the Progress Party has also made a proposal to reduce the retention obligation from ten to five years. It is under consideration in the Financial Committee. So we've concluded, and then we don't have to consider removing the audit obligation. It's going to be exciting to see when we get the measure on the table, what the measure is for the Council of State, and the implementation rate – how fast it's coming in. Yeah, it's going to be exciting to follow this case, but I think, unfortunately, it's not the last time we're on this platform and we're discussing these things. But let's hope that soon we start getting results from it. It is important, for this is a matter of fact, that the framework conditions are made easier for these small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is essentially what is the very support of the Norwegian industry. That's what's going to bring us forward, both in technology, in business – getting new ideas and visions and moving on. Therefore, it is important that we base the framework conditions, ensure that it is as simple as possible and spend the minimum amount of time on reporting. The proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone are good proposals. So I hope the council will look at them when he comes back to his payroll chamber in the street up here. I hope he can sit down, look at these things – and maybe get at them himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3099	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3102	The Christian People's Party wants to improve the basic framework conditions for value creation, so that Norway can also offer good welfare services to its inhabitants in the future. In this context, the conditions for smaller enterprises are very central. We will pursue an economic policy that promotes innovation and industrial development and provides predictability for those who want to invest in jobs. In the document we are discussing today, the Christian People's Party proposes a number of measures to improve the conditions of small businesses through measures to facilitate working life, better conditions for value creation, simpler everyday life and better interaction between the public sector and private business. As the fleet representative mentioned, several of the proposals are supported by the other opposition parties, while, unfortunately, the government parties will not give priority to measures to ensure this value creation in small enterprises. Small businesses account for more than half of the value creation in Norwegian business. Small businesses are innovative and adaptable, but it is demanding for them to survive and grow. Five years after start-up is only 30 pst. by the enterprises still active. This is the background to the ‘Small Business Call’, which has four main requirements for governments: less square work, smarter taxation, simpler everyday life and smarter interaction between public and business. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should improve the conditions for small businesses, in order to ensure value creation, jobs and well-being in the future. It is necessary to stimulate more enterprises to become apprentices. Support for training offices and apprenticeships needs to be increased to make it easier for smaller enterprises to involve more apprentices. This makes it easier for younger people to enter the labour market and improves access to skills for businesses. The Christian People's Party believes that public purchasers should take into account whether companies have apprentices when deciding who is to be offered. It will give enterprises with apprentices a competitive advantage. Norway must appear as an attractive country for investment in new businesses and have a targeted policy to give entrepreneurs good conditions. In addition to ensuring risk capital through the public instrument, private investors wishing to invest in start-ups need to be guaranteed framework conditions that increase access to risk capital. Three-quarters of Norwegian enterprises are owned by families. 40,000 enterprises are facing a generational shift over the next 10 years in this country, and surveys by the European Commission show that a successful change of ownership in small enterprises leads to an average of five jobs being continued. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that the payment of the inheritance fee be postponed for at least 10 years in the event of a generation change. If the holding continues to operate, one tenth of the fee shall be cancelled each year. If the holding continues to operate for at least 10 years, no inheritance tax will be paid. This will be good business policy, good social economy and good district policy. Most owners of small enterprises work in their own businesses, and the vast majority of small enterprises in Norway are owned by private individuals. The Christian People's Party believes that it is particularly unfortunate that owners have to pay property taxes even when businesses go through with deficits, which is very demanding for smaller businesses. The Norwegian public procurement market has grown dramatically in the last ten years. The public spends about 400 billion each year. NOK for the purchase of goods and services. Good public procurement makes better use of society's resources. Cooperation with private businesses has created new and smarter solutions in several areas of society. Experience from other countries shows that it is realistic to believe that a total of 40 billion. Public procurement can be directly linked to innovation. Here the smaller companies have great opportunities to participate and compete for the deliveries. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the government to ensure that public procurement down to NOK 100 000 is published electronically. 99 pst. by all enterprises in Norway are small or medium-sized enterprises. Better conditions for value creation, simplification, better interaction between public and business and a simpler working life are essential to increase value creation. I refer to the proposal, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3125	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3128	The Christian People's Party's proposal to improve the conditions for small businesses has a high focus on government and the Central Party and is an important topic that needs to be debated continuously. The international financial crisis that is now moving into its next phase, namely the sovereign debt crisis, means that we need to have an even stronger focus on the stimulation of small businesses in the future, because the competitive situation and unemployment issues are becoming more demanding in the future. Small enterprises are in two forms: one is a maritime operator with unlimited financial responsibility. The other is unlisted limited liability companies. The most demanding challenge for smaller enterprises is the challenge of maritime operators with very poor social arrangements. It has not been drawn up in the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I am absolutely sure that the Christian People's Party is concerned about it, but there is very little knowledge around the community that for seagoing business there are only 16 karendays, and then there are 65 pst. coverage after 16 days, while employees have 100 pst. from the first day. It is one of the main reasons why many younger people, women and men, do not choose to start as a seafaring trader, because the social systems are too weak. It has to be a priority task to improve it. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party raises the question of fixed employment, that it should be different in small versus large enterprises. The Center Party will warn against that. If there is to be a difference in employment protection compared to whether the enterprises are large or not, two classes will be given, where the small enterprises are less attractive. It's not lucky. It is important that small businesses are attractive to their employees as well. With regard to the proposal for inheritance tax in case of change of ownership in family holdings, it has been first and foremost in relation to inheritances linked to operating assets. Family businesses are once again seaworthy traders and unlisted limited liability companies. The instrument proposed by the Christian People's Party, with a reduced inheritance fee of 10 pst. per year for a 10-year period, may be one alternative. Another option, which is easier to realise, is to look at the valuation of the operating assets by inheritance, so that operating resources related to production are valued less, and thus it will be easier for the next generation to continue. The definition of family is good in family businesses. It is more demanding in unlisted limited liability companies, and I expect the proposers to think of unlisted limited liability companies that are wholly owned by family and children. In the case of property taxes on working capital, we have a discussion of what working capital is. If one in working capital also adds the share capital, we're completely out of the question, because that makes it impossible to distinguish between share capital, bonds, deposits and everything, and thus tearing a foundation away from the entire property tax. Professor Terje Rein Hansen has in today's issue of Business News described the consequences of it, and I think most people here in the Chamber don't want it, because the alternative to that kind of property tax lapses is that one introduces property tax. In the case of minimum deductions for sea-going traders, it has become applicable because the minimum deduction for employees has increased sharply lately, while the deduction of persons, which also includes sea-going traders, has not increased accordingly. So an alternative to introducing a separate minimum deduction for sea-going traders is that the deduction of persons is greatly increased, so that one thus receives a more equal treatment between sea-going traders and employees. With regard to the issue of two share laws, there are proposals that are interesting to discuss further, just as the government is now discussing the issue of the removal of audit obligations for small limited liability companies. If one goes in to remove the audit obligation for small limited liability companies, which we hope is the case, it is also natural to look at the distinction between small and large companies in relation to the share law, which makes it possible to have simplified rules for small limited liability companies. The Form Field – everyone agrees on it, few talk about the many who want the complicated code. My experience from the Ministry of Local Affairs is that many in the business community want complicated rules to have some jobs. It's pretty complicated. Finally, we are happy with the theme, we want better terms, we want to work systematically and thoroughly with each of them, because this becomes more important in the future, when the economic situation gets worse around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3154	The left will also praise the Christian People's Party for this representative proposal. The left has promoted a number of similar proposals in this room, so we're completely in line. Many of the minority proposals have also been prioritised in our alternative budget – and the Ministry of Industry budget will be dealt with in a few days' time. The left considers that, in order to create and secure jobs, it is essential to have a generally good framework for all parts of business, combined with targeted efforts to ensure undergrowth of unborn enterprises. For the Left, it is a main task to simplify the everyday life of businesses by abolishing unnecessary laws and regulations. That is why we will, among other things, establish a separate Norwegian Rule Council, following the Swedish, successful model, which contributes to less bureaucracy. We also want to grant self-employed rights to social schemes similar to those of other workers, including those on the labour market. through the rights to sickness benefits and care allowance in the case of care for your own children and in the case of sickness during pregnancy. I am very pleased that the representative Lundteg got into that theme in his post here instead. As most of it has been said in this case, I will finally give an explanation of vote. Left-wing votes in favour of proposal No. 1–6 and 26–29. Proposals Nos. 7–25, from the Progress Party, are broadly good proposals in which the Left supports the intention. They are identical to proposals that we are dealing with under the Financial Committee, as has been said here. We voted against it then, and we are also voting against it today, because we believe that they need to be better investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3166	Let me first thank the proposers for once again being able to discuss simplification in the storeroom. I'll take that as a sign that the engagement is still big. All the proposals that come up, we'll look at further work, even though the government parties are not ready to adopt this over the table here. It is an impression that the more clearly we are that there are targets and actions in the area of simplification, the more Document No. We have eight proposals and debates in Stortinget. So it reminds me a little bit of the politician who sat at home and saw a crowd walking along the street and hurried out and jumped in front of the train, so that he made an impression that there was a lot of follow-up here on his march. It is good that this is so, because it indicates that there is a broad consensus on these things, although one can always ask questions about whether previous government parties should perhaps think about these things when they sat by a majority and directed Norway. Now at least it's going to happen more than ever. There are many interesting proposals that proposers are promoting. Although the issues of work environment law and employee rights are probably a dividing line between at least the red-green parties and the right-hand side, we believe that it is possible to obtain many simplification measures, many concrete measures, which can make it better for small businesses in particular, without having to weaken employment, job protection and employee rights. We will follow up on further work, so that we can now get out of the many food ministers who have had on this – fine goals and fine formulations – and into a concrete phase of action. Businesses live neither by suggestion nor by word, they live by concrete reality, and that is to the one we have to translate the ambitions to which I understand the parties of the Great Britain have a unanimous agreement. We have put in place concrete measures to simplify the everyday life of Norwegian business already – several governments have done so. Altin is such an example. Before the weekend, the Minister of Finance and I were presented with a survey showing that Norway is one of the easiest countries in the world to deal with in terms of tax legislation and tax reporting. In fact, the figures presented by the Netherlands to us when we were in the Netherlands show that the Netherlands after completing 25 pst. reduction in the use of time-costs for enterprises has fallen to the Norwegian level, as measured in the same way, according to EU standards. Although studies show that it is over 50 billion. in the costs of enterprises, this does not mean that the potential for simplification is 50 billion. kr, for a good part of this are things that companies have to do in any case, e.g. billing or accounting, which actually strengthens the value creation. These are the unnecessary bureaucratic rules, the complicated reporting system, we have to follow, so that we strengthen the value creation and not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3186	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3189	I can assure the Council of State that simplification and reduction of the form field is something that many parties have been working on for many years. Representative proposals are not what you promote because this government has called for them. The background is that you may be impatient, because you have made a number of suggestions without seeing that you have come anywhere. But at least the Council of State should have that he's been involved in what it's like in other countries. Then I ask the following questions to the Council of State: During their visit to Denmark, did the Council of State have the impression that Denmark has also just come down to the Norwegian level? The Council of State mentioned the Netherlands, but at least the survey that I have seen shows that Denmark has actually started well, come down a long way and is much better off. So I just want to remind the Council of State that there is no one in this room who has said that you have ambitions to come down to zero – that was mentioned 50 billion. kr. That's 25 pst. In fact, one has set as a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3198	The exact figure for Denmark in terms of the amount of GDP that goes into the use of time and administrative follow-up from the enterprises, I do not have. It was the Netherlands I referred to, which approached the Norwegian level after reducing by 25 pst. In Denmark, they're good. With cross-political support from the Danish Parliament, pressure has been put on the work, and many actions have been carried out. That's how we can learn from others. We take this with us when we are going to implement things in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3203	It was nice that the Council of State could refer to the report Doing Business. When we turn it in, we see that they've looked at a little bit of each. These include: a survey comparing developments in 180 countries in the last five years and the success of economic activity. They've measured improvements. Of the around 180 countries, among other things: those Denmark and the Netherlands far ahead of Norway on the list. In fact, Norway is among the 24 countries that have not been able to improve their position for traders. In fact, there are only ten countries behind Norway on the list. My question to the Council of State is: Does he trust this chapter as much as he trusts that it would be easy to pay his taxes in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3210	Studies on the ease of industrial activity in Norway show that there are wide variations between fields. What the State is responsible for, for example. what was now said about paying taxes, we get very well out of it. Where we come out very badly, we have to deal with construction matters. In most of the municipalities – after remembering – it is almost three and a half years to wait for treatment to be completed. I think this city is a good example of where the Right Party and the Advance Party have been running for 14 years, without me believing that architects or property owners and developers feel that there is a tremendous improvement in the way things are treated. It is possible that, as a state, we should be even tougher when it comes to the treatment of these kinds of cases by municipalities. That is the area where we, in particular, find ourselves in a bad position in these international studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3217	There are great expectations that something will be done about the audit obligation, which many consider to be pottery. Can the Council of State say something about when this is going to happen at the end of the year here in Stortinget? And can he also say something about how practical he thinks it is that such a change is implemented e.g.. in 2011, when enterprises are well-informed about their year of operation, if they become so?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3222	This is a matter that lies below another State Council formally. It is the Ministry of Finance that has legislation in this area. But we have seen the signals from business that this is an important matter. At the same time, we have seen that parts of the business community, among others. The Auditor's Association, has a different view of this. It's not that uncontroversial. If we change this, it's going to be the biggest single measure of simplification ever, so I realize that business is involved in it. But it must be the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance who must answer the question of progress in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3229	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3234	At least I hope that the Council of State will press, because I have understood that he is in favour of this. I also think the council must stop talking about what the previous government didn't do, when they're on their way into the sixth year. Yes, we're running in front of the train now – that's a fact. It's also a fact that it's the government council that's at the back. So to the representative, Mr Lundtigen, whom I always appreciate very much in these debates. He's the good spokesperson of small businesses. He talks about “great focus” and important issues in this proposal from the Christian People’s Party – the same proposal that the representative Heggø said about: It’s hard to get something concrete. There are 30 very specific proposals! It's just reading. On the other hand, I'm a little surprised that the representative Lundteg, who thinks this is so important, these 30 proposals, have difficulties finding someone for whom he is, because there's something about them all that he really doesn't like. Just to one of the important ones, this with easier access to employment for small businesses: that's not the way the proposal is, it's generally. But it says as a reason that this would be particularly important for the small businesses. I ask the representative Lundtigen to read this very carefully. Just that proposal from the Christian People's Party, which I think is a cautious proposal – I kept on saying slowly, to stick to terminology – I don't think you should meet as the representative Heggø does, screaming about brutality in working life. It does not, in fact, deserve the concern of the proposers for small businesses. The representative Hegø seems to be more comfortable going over to talking about tax bills, which are already in the script, from all the election campaigns back and at all. In the case that the municipal economy will be weakened by $9 billion. kr if you remove the property tax, I recommend to the Workers' Party's nutrient fraction, perhaps also the other red-green ones, to contact their own financial fraction and ask how the Right's alternative budgets have been aged in recent years. I have been in the Stortinget Financial Committee for eight years, creating eight budgets and proposing the removal of property taxes – I have never aged this against the local economy at all. So yes, arguments like against the stimulation of businesses and tax havens, but with blank weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3248	I'm going to start with the last one from the fleet representative: it was the assessment when it comes to the work environment law and that it is risky for small businesses to set up in fixed settings, as I said. It is stated in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox To the representative Nesvik I would like to say: Yes, the Labour Party supports Bondevik, under one budget – one in four. This actually meant that we forced Bondevik's government to come in with 2 billion. kr more for the local government sector. There's actually going to be a few few construction things more that can handle for that sum there, as well as other good things. So for the brutalization of the labour market. The party has voted in favour of all the brutalisation decisions, as far as I have been given. I may have missed it once they voted against it, but I think they have voted for it in any context I have seen. But we in the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, have reversed the proposals that actually had multiples under the Bondevik regime. Here there is a clear distinction in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3257	It's absolutely right that the Center Party stands up for the small businesses. We do that whether we're in opposition or we're in government. The reason for this is the fact that we have been historically in Norwegian society in the situation that the larger enterprises and employees have had more powerful organisations that have managed to influence the framework conditions of the authorities, which has led to the weakening of small businesses over time. The centre party feels a special responsibility for caring for small businesses, because very many of the leaders of the centre party have their basis there. When the representative fleet says that it is difficult for the centre party to find something for which you are responsible, it is wrong. I said in my post that we are very interested in and positive about improving the system of inheritance fees when we change ownership. We have a great interest in improving property taxes in relation to the definition of working capital. We have a great interest in increasing the deduction to improve the situation of the marine operators. We have a great deal of understanding – yes, more than that – of looking at the need for two stock laws, not just one, and to look at the issue of the removal of the audit obligation, which the Council of State has answered in an exemplary way. The problem with the right is the issue of fixed employment in small and large enterprises. There I would say, as the Council of State, that there is a distinction between the red-green parts and the right. We see it as important to have the same level of job protection in small businesses as in large enterprises, and believe that even small businesses, when they think about it, will be skeptical about having a different piece of legislation than about large enterprises. With regard to the taxes on wealth, I just want to say a little bit more about the article that Terje Rein Hansen had in today's business today, where the title was «Keep the property tax». He says there: ‘The fact that the ‘super-rich’ no longer pay taxes could be completely destructive to tax morality’. So this is true if you take away the property tax. Professor Hansen also says: «Communities such as Oslo, Asker and Bærum have had significant property tax revenue. They have therefore no need to introduce municipal property taxes. These could be forced to compensate for the progeny surface by introducing such a tax. In other municipalities with modest taxes on property, such as Bergen, the proceeds could be recovered by adjusting the property charges on which the property tax is based.’ For the Central Party, it is quite obvious that a revised property tax is the way to go over removing taxes on wealth and thus removing taxes on all financial assets, which will happen if a property tax is implemented in Norway, as one does in our neighbouring countries. The weakness of property taxes and the benefits of a property tax where working capital, which is not non-unemployed income, is not taxed is far too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3278	It's going to be interesting to follow the path of the red-green parties forward in connection with the tax regime, because we've just heard Lundtigen's comments about the major weaknesses and problems of property tax. I can agree to that, and I look forward to central parties across the country now going away from using the property tax. It's going to be interesting to see. The reason why I took the floor is that the representative is Heggø's posts. So she's once again talking about the brutalization of working life, how terrible it has been to work in this country before the red-greens came to power. Unfortunately, I don't think the representative Heggø is making this as the public sees it. The government itself says that Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in. It has been for many, many years, even before the representative Heggø's people came into government. But when it comes to working life, it also has a little bit of a look at the threshold of getting into the world of work. One of the problems we've seen in recent years is that you haven't been able to get more of those who have been out of work because of disability to get into work. Maybe the representative Heggø can reflect a little bit around it. Then the representative Heggø also says that when we, the Workers' Party, made a deal with the Bondevik government, the municipal economy was improved by 2 billion. kr. Then you forget to say that you also changed the system within the healthcare system, which meant that more people did not receive treatment. It also changed the proportion of the excess in the health care system. There's probably a lot of different types of budgets, but now I think history should be history. Then you have to look forward and see how it can get better in the future, and not just look at old history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3289	I'm glad that the representative Hegø tuned down some of the most bombastic statements in his last post. I think that's good, because we're talking about all the tens of thousands of small businesses in the country and about owners who work there every day. It is because I also find it strange to hear a statement from the representative Lundteg, who has appointed himself the great protector and tabler of small businesses – and he has to do so – saying that ‘when a person gets to think about it’, they would think that this with more flexible jobs, temporary jobs, is not something for them. I don't know if the representative Lundtegen was at the Småting in Alta. Then he would hear completely unison what Norwegian small businesses and their owners think about this. It couldn't have gone past his house. Then I am very pleased that the representative Lundtigen now opens up several of the proposals that have been promoted, and says that he has a great interest in them, I think it is. Then I hope that he can work within the government, because that is not the first time he says this, so that we can finally see some concrete examples of this work, and that he also comes up in the train described by the Council of State, and does not go back with his own. So once again for today's article in Today's Business of Retired Professor Hansen in Bergen, and I have to repeat it also for the representative Lundtigen: the right has never aged its alternative budgets to take from the municipalities what we reduce in wealth taxes. It's a prerequisite that this goes right into the state budget. I think that's a very strange argument. On the other hand, I record that this gives Lundtigen and other opportunities to argue freshly that you have to have property taxes instead, and that we may eventually end up with both. I would like to ask the representative Lundteg to continue to keep the flag high in terms of reducing taxes on wealth. Follow the League of Bonds in this matter, Lundtegen!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3300	I feel the need to say a few words about this with permanent employment and temporary employment, since it has become a topic here today. Of course, the Christian People's Party believes that permanent employment should be the basis for employing a company. It must be the general rule of the labour market. We haven't said anything that will rock that rule. But as Svein Flätten said, what happened at the Småting in Alta made us worried about the small businesses. It was on the basis of what happened there, and the information the Christian People's Party got there, that we promoted this proposal. There are quadrangular provisions that are bad for the smaller enterprises. I don't understand why the government parties can't at least be involved in evaluating these things, we're just asking that these things be evaluated. When it's so intense for small businesses, I don't realize that this is not a valid assessment – that you should be so square that you just think about fixed employment, and you can't have a combination, when it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3309	Now the debate is about to end, hopefully. There are themes that have been discussed a number of times this fall, thanks to many suggestions on the themes. I think it's worth noting what the Council of State said in its main post, that in the case of many of the proposals that have now come up, it's not that one rejects them, but that one will consider things further in the ongoing work going on to facilitate even better framework conditions for employment, value creation, etc. around many thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also in large enterprises. I just took the word to underline a few elements. I guess I have to see those who have been on the Småting, where you usually hear what you want to hear. The unison requirement to facilitate employment-related conditions is defined by what was played by the NHO and the Småting up there. But I think it is a little strange that this debate becomes so prominent in this matter. Firstly, temporary employment for enterprises in Norway is quite a good opportunity. It is quite a good opportunity to use rented services via temporary employment agencies, etc. It is quite a good opportunity to test out workers, whether they are qualified for the job they are going to do, through probationary periods, etc. It is relatively easy for an employer to handle an employee. But then there is a framework in the law that makes the general rule in employment primarily linked to permanent employment. And is there something better in a welfare society than that workers have the security that they have a job not just tomorrow, but the week after and the week after, year after year, provided they do their job properly? Those who attack it attack something fundamental for people, in my opinion. Here I actually feel that a total opposition unfortunately does. So to the tax level. Yes, the wealth tax can be discussed. The inheritance fee can be discussed. One can also discuss property tax or VAT, etc. But the result is that that tax is not just something you take in – let's say – for love. There's something you're taking in because you want to produce something basic for the population, whether it's well-being through community services like school, care for the elderly, cultural services, experience or whatever. I have at least not heard any agreement in this room that one should remove it, while removing part of the tax base. And without the two things ringing together, there'll be a little pointless debate there too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3320	Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3323	There's a lot at the right hand side that doesn't attract me. In the case of small businesses, however, the party Right, other parties and now the Christian People's Party have proposed to improve the possibilities for these. The centre party then looks at the proposal, on the matter, not at the proposers. If the representative Fleet had saved some of the sarcasms, one might have reached further towards the representatives of the government parties in improving the conditions of the small enterprises. The Central Party is, of course, working within the government to improve the results, and we are very pleased with the Council's positive reference to the proposals here, which directly invite for further cooperation. Then it's correct that the right has never aged with the municipal economy when one takes away the property tax. However, the point of the Central Party is that in all our neighbouring countries, property taxes have been replaced by property taxes. It should be right-wing dry to say openly, if one goes in to take away the property tax, that it does so in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3334	I agree with Mr Lundtegen on a great deal. He also agrees with the party Right, as he says. If he really wants to do something within the government of Norwegian small businesses, don't let a lonely representative's sarcasm shut it down. This is too important for that. But I'm not going to stop pointing out that it's late, that you should have done other things, and that you should have had a much higher pace in this work. So to the representative of Aasland, who says that we who travel around and listen to business, we hear what we want to hear. It's possible. I saw that the representative of Aasland was also in Alta. I understand that he too has heard what he wants to hear. With regard to the debate which has become quite hot here, on the brutalisation of working life, I must stress that the proposal – the cautious proposal – by the Christian People's Party was one of 30 proposals in which the representative Heggø of the Workers' Party found reason to be stuck in, because that was what fit to present this as brutal. I said in my post that I thought it was undeserved that the Christian People's Party would get such a stamp on its overall proposal. You could keep doing that too well. The committee chairman could also do that. Finally, he almost insinuated that it is we who have drawn up this debate in particular. We haven't done that at all. This has been a big proposal with a lot of elements – absolutely no reason to draw this in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3343	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 1760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3359	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3368	Prop. 5 L for 2010–2011 deals with amendments to Law No 3 June 1994. 15 on the Entity Register, i.e. the unitary register law, and the law of 21 June 1985 no. 78 on the registration of undertakings, i.e. the company register law. It is a unanimous committee that makes a recommendation and that otherwise has no dissenting comments but refers to the proposition. However, it must be said that the parties of government on one side and the Party of Advancement, the Right and Christian parties on the other have their own comments. As regards the case itself, the Committee has noted that the proposal for amendments to the law involves an extension of the scope for whom a written declaration can be made on behalf of the undertaking concerning information notified to the Brønnøysund Registers. Furthermore, the legislative amendments provide for a relaxation in the signing requirements for declarations and reporting to the registers, if the information to be provided is provided through Altin. The current signature rules and strict signature requirements have been largely continued without major changes since the law of 17 May 1890 – and that is a few years ago. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that, according to the Brønnøysund Registers, the experience is that electronic notifications have a lower error rate compared to submissions that need to be submitted manually on the basis of paper versions. According to the registers, this is due to built-in checks in the electronic form solutions. Otherwise, the Committee notes that the legislative changes promoted in the proposal could result in significant administrative and financial savings for businesses by allowing more people to avail themselves of the possibility of submitting information electronically instead of in paper form. It is otherwise a fixed objective to 95 pst. registrations to the Brønn Island Health Registers shall be possible by electronic means. Such an objective could, over time, result in potential efficiency gains for the Entity Registry and the Business Register of approx. eight years' work. With this I present the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3389	As the case spokesman said, the main point of this case is to be reconciled. It may be worth noting that we have finished after the previous debate. The amendment proposal is still part of the government's simplification work. Electronic transmission of messages to Brønnøsundregistra simplifies the everyday life of business operators, and it reduces the processing time by registering materially. This is actually a real improvement and simplification. The aim is that the percentage of electronic messages should be 95 before the end of 2012. As we all see, there's a little bit of time until we've reached it. The current regulatory authority will be extended to cover all types of messages and all those subject to a notification obligation can sign separately. If necessary, a delegate can use the Altinn admin rights to a natural person. The circle of persons required to report in the Device Register is expanded. In order to have uniform rules in the Registration Code, the circuit that can sign both paper messages and electronic messages to the Device Register is also extended accordingly. This is good. When you read the comments of the Right Party and the Advance Party, you can be sure that it is impossible to do business in Norway. I'm not going to go up the debate that we had in the previous debate, but I'm still going to point out that the fact that we're ready for the eighth best country to operate in hasn't brought everyone. It's unique that while we're getting that crew, we're also ready for the world's best country to live in, going on and on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3402	The government has determined that electronic communications should be the primary channel of contact with the public sector. Electronic services make communication between enterprises, individuals and the public simpler and less resource-intensive. Facilitating easier electronic communication with the public is thus an important contribution to business simplification. The aim is that electronic services should fully replace paper in the communication between industry and the public sector. The authorities have therefore worked actively for many years to develop good electronic solutions for business. The proposal is part of the government's simplification work. The laws, regulations and administrative provisions shall not create unnecessary administrative costs for the enterprises. The authorities thus contribute to the release of time by businesses. The proposal presented in the proposal implies that the rules on who is to sign messages to the Unit Registry and the Business Register are simplified, in particular by reducing the number of persons required to sign the messages. The entity register and the Business Register contain central information about Norwegian companies and is an important source of information for both public authorities and private parties. Both registers offer online registration of most enterprises and all data submitted are stored electronically. Since December 2006, companies have been able to submit messages electronically with a signing solution via Altinn. The electronic share is now at approx. 45 pst. The aim is, as the rapporteur said, that it should be 95 p.m. by 2012. The rules on who is obliged to ensure that messages are sent and who is to sign the notification itself are detailed in the entity register law and the company register law. Signing implies that the information being notified is correct. For most forms of organisation, more people have to sign the message. The feedback from business users is that today’s requirements for signing in the Unit Register Act and the Business Register Act are a barrier to the use of electronic transmission. The proposal implies that all operators currently subject to notification obligations to the Brønn Island Health Registers can sign the notification on their own. Regulations will also provide that the right to sign the notification may be delegated by electronic means to a natural person whom the entity itself designates by means of the administrator’s rights in Altin. The proposed change implies that the threshold for using electronic reporting is lowered. For enterprises, it also means simplification that they can identify themselves the person to sign messages on behalf of the enterprise. There are clear simplification effects for business by submitting messages electronically rather than on paper. Figures obtained from a report ordered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in October 2009 show that during the period 2006–2009, the business sector saved approx. Eighty million. kr by increasing the use of electronic messages from 10 to 24 pst. An increase from today's 45 pst. electronic messages for 95 pst. means that the number of electronic messages to the registers is increased by 200000. This could lead to significant savings for business. Increased electronic notification revenue provides for more effective procedures in the Brønn Island Health Registers. Calculations show that an electronic message income of 95 pst. could provide potential savings in several annual works, which could instead be used to increase efforts in other areas. Increased use and better quality of registers will bring benefits to business and other users. The proposed changes are one in themselves modest, but equally important, part of the government's efforts to simplify and facilitate business. Happy is the fact that, at the same time, we are creating a more efficient and user-friendly public sector. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee has given its unique positive attitude to these legislative changes, which will both increase the use of electronic messages to the registers and streamline and improve the quality of registers, while at the same time implying simplification and resource savings for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3425	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1761]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3441	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3450	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in order to get this matter expeditiously up to the Grand Duchy and its proceedings. It has been of great benefit to me as the case rapporteur in this case. The proposal on the changes currently in the law on coverage is the last element to complete the guarantee scheme on long-term power contracts for the power-generating industry. The aim of the scheme is to make it easier for industry to obtain long-term financing when concluding long-term power contracts. The scheme could contribute to increasing liquidity in the market for long-term power contracts, and in such a case would be an important contribution to ensuring the long-term framework conditions for the power-intensive industry, which can once again develop its activities in Norway. The legislative proposal we are discussing now involves a change in the law on coverage, which means that contracts for the right of entry into long-term power contracts take precedence over the residence of the power buyer, subsequent creditors and subsequent legal formations in the power buyer's contractual position. The background to the bill is that under the law in force, there is uncertainty as to whether an agreement on the right of entry into force of power agreements would be contrary to the right of entry into bankruptcy of the bankruptcy residence. Under the law in force, it is also uncertain whether the long-term energy contracts desired to be concluded in industry can be pledged. It was therefore important to bring this change of law into place now, so that the scheme would be complete. Throughout this decade, power to industry has been a topical political issue. There has been a long time to find a solution that would remedy the situation following the termination of State contracts as a result of State aid law. A relief system has therefore been requested. In this way, the scheme presented by the government on 14 September 2010 was well received. Norwegian Industry characterised in an online message on the same day that the guarantee system was known, that it was happy that the guarantee system has now come into place, and that it was now up to the power companies and the industry to negotiate. Power at competitive and stable prices is an important prerequisite, they further stated, for the development of the power-generating industry in this country. Of the 80-90 companies currently covered by the scheme, we know that there are more people who want and need to enter into new long-term power agreements in the coming years. This is linked to the expiry of existing power agreements and many plans for new investments. Investments in the power-intensive industry have a long horizon. This means that the framework conditions must also be long-term and also the power agreements, which must be considered essential for attracting new investment. Through the guarantee mechanism now completed by this amendment, the parties have an instrument to manage at least the counterparty risk associated with long-term power agreements. This should mean that, when the scheme is in place, there are greater possibilities for achieving long-term power contracts than it was in the past. But at the same time, I would like to stress that, in my opinion, the power seller has a special responsibility to enter into long-term power contracts with the industry. At the same time, however, industry has to take on its own responsibility for setting up such agreements, and much has now been put in place. If the power-processing industry is phased out, there will be major changes in national power consumption. At my discretion, this is extremely unfortunate and not desirable. Therefore, the parties now have a responsibility to use this tool to try to find long-term solutions with which both parties can live. I would like to stress that we now have expectations that the industry, when it now – hopefully – enters into power agreements using the State guarantee scheme, is offered conditions reflecting that the guarantee scheme provides a significant reduction in the seller’s risk by entering into long-term contracts. It should also be expected that long-term contracts and any advance payments will give sellers greater freedom to realise their investment plans by strengthening the liquidity of power sellers by advance payments. It should also be motivating. I hope that in the time that is coming, we can see that this is reflected through power agreements that are being concluded. I am therefore very pleased that we can now complete the scheme and, as it is already late in the evening, I will refrain from commenting on the minority's comments in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3473	Initially, I will refer to the representative Terje Aasland now presented, and join the main features he came with. The centre party is committed to facilitating the powerful industry, and we are pleased that we are now establishing a comprehensive and sound framework for a guarantee system for long-term power agreements with industry. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that the purpose of the guarantee scheme, as well as the legislative proposal, is to make it easier for industry to obtain funding when long-term power contracts are concluded. This could lead to increased liquidity in the long-term power contracts market and would be an important contribution to ensuring that the power-intensive industry is further developing its activities in Norway. I have over time had contact with several industrial companies who are very concerned about this matter. Among these are Finnfjord in Troms and Norwegian Forest in Nord-Trøndelag. This is a matter that has a great commitment to the industry. A number of industrial enterprises want to enter into new long-term power agreements in the coming years. This is related to the expiry of existing power agreements and plans for initial investment. Investments in the power-intensive industry tend to have a horizon of 20-40 years, and long-term power agreements will be crucial for new investments. The Guarantee Facility provides the parties with an instrument to manage the counterparty risk associated with long-term power agreements. The establishment of the guarantee scheme intends to provide satisfactory risk relief for power sellers. In this respect, I would like to stress in particular that it should also force the sale of a special responsibility to conclude long-term power contracts with industry, among others. to avoid significant changes in national power consumption over time. With the framework now in place, I hope that the industry will succeed in negotiating long-term power contracts, which will contribute to investments and secure jobs in the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3490	The case we are dealing with here today is a small but important element in a larger effort to ensure Norwegian power-processing industry long-term, senior and good power contracts. Now, the spokesmen have gone into the details of exactly what is happening to these power contracts. I want to take a slightly different approach and would point out that the Norwegian power-intensive industry is a very important element in Norwegian industrial development, in the ability of Norwegian industry to change. To just take one example of the power-intensive industry, I'm going to refer to Elkem, who has managed to go from a bulk production in a low-cost market to producing solar silicon in a high-price market. It shows that there is an industry that Norwegian industry really needs, an industry that uses technology to change, to innovation and to enter new markets, which are proportionate to the competitive situation facing Norwegian industry. It is also important to note that it makes sense to produce power-intensive products in a renewable energy country. To put it simply: then we can produce aluminium and export renewable energy in solid form, instead of exporting energy on cable. Production of energy in solid form can often be less energy loss, for example: in aluminium and by exporting aluminium, than by exporting energy on cable. So the situation that we in Norway have an industry that is competitively environmental and otherwise, and at the same time uses renewable power, is a advantage that we have to take care of. There's one thing that's also important to be aware of, that the suppliers of power in Norway are dependent on the power-generating industry to get them out of power. There is a large part of Norwegian electricity production that is now going to the power-consuming industry, that if it were to fall away, the bottom would fall out of the market. There is also a situation where suppliers of electricity have to think about. And as many people have been in this room today, there is a very strong call from this room for the suppliers and the power-generating industry to come to an agreement, so that we can achieve a stable and good development both in electricity generation and in electricity consumption in Norway, which ensures long-term jobs. The framework conditions they now have imposed on power producers and power suppliers a great responsibility to help us get stable power contracts that allow us to maintain a competitive and environmentally friendly metal industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3503	For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the proposal we are considering today will make it easier for industry to obtain funding when long-term power agreements are concluded. This could increase the liquidity of the market for long-term power contracts and will be an important contribution to ensuring that the power-intensive industry further develops its activities here in Norway. But this proposal does not solve the whole problem complex. The amendments to the Coverage Act are only one of the framework conditions that must be in place before a guarantee scheme can be established. The second important condition, namely the notification and approval of ESA, must also be put in place. The Christian People's Party supports the legislative amendment, but notes that it does not fulfil the promises made by the government parties in the 2005 election campaign on power for industry at below market price. I agree with the representative Holmelid that today's proposal from the government on a guarantee scheme for the purchase of power helps the industry a little bit along the way, but – at my own expense, I would say – is very close to what was promised before the last election. The test of the impact of this guarantee scheme is whether industry is now finding the basis for long-term investment in production and investment in Norway. In the election campaign in 2005, the red-green country and beach traveled with promises they should know they could not hold. Stoltenberg gave industry false expectations. In the election campaign prior to the election in 2005, industrial power was a sweet debate theme, and red-green promises of a new industrial power regime were many and very strong. Jens Stoltenberg also promised power «under market price». This created expectations in the industry. It was not surprising that the EEA Agreement did not allow for fixed power contracts. This was old news for those who know the matter. The governments of Bondevik I and II and the government of Stoltenberg I had come to the same conclusion earlier. This knowledge must have deliberately forgotten the red-green as they traveled around with this message. I recently visited the cement factory at Norcem in Brevik. There was the message crystal clear: an industrial power regime that provides secure and long-term access to power to competitive conditions is crucial for the company's future. Some industrial communities have been particularly affected by the international financial crisis. The Christian People's Party fears that the government's instruments in industrial policy are not accurate enough. The Christian People's Party believes an increased commitment to research, innovation and good public infrastructure are key success criteria for a value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. But we know that cheap power is a crucial factor for Norway as a high-cost country to compete with industry in low-cost countries, also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3522	I am pleased that a Joint Liaison Committee supports the proposal to provide legal protection for agreements on the right of entry into long-term power contracts. The amendment of the law will give guarantors in long-term power contracts the right of entry before the bankruptcy dwelling in a bankruptcy situation. The proposal is an important element for the guarantee system for power-intensive industry purchasing to be an effective instrument. The proposal will make it easier for the power-intensive industry to obtain funding at the time of the conclusion of long-term power contracts. On 8 December 2009, the majority adopted the government’s proposal to establish a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry’s purchase of power. The scheme shall be managed by the Export Credit Guarantee Institute and provided a framework of 20 billion. kr. The Government has proposed to continue the framework of the 2011 budget. The guarantee scheme shall apply to power contracts of a minimum duration of seven years and a maximum of 25 years. I believe that the guarantee scheme will contribute to new investments and secure jobs in the Norwegian power-intensive industry. The Government proposes that a new provision be included in the law on coverage. This provision will provide legal protection for contracts that give guarantors the right of entry into long-term power contracts. Thus, such agreements would go ahead of the bankruptcy estate’s right under Section 7-3 of the Law on Coverage to enter into the debtor’s agreements in the event of bankruptcy. This helps to reduce the risk of guarantors in individual guarantee exposures and can therefore be crucial for the conclusion of guarantee agreements in the scheme. The Government's proposal includes the right of entry into force of power agreements with a term of seven years or more. The aim of the guarantee scheme and the legislative proposal is to make it easier for industry to obtain finance in the conclusion of long-term power contracts. This could lead to increased liquidity in the long-term power contracts market and will therefore make an important contribution to ensuring that the power-intensive industry further develops its activities in Norway. The Government proposes that the guarantor be obliged, by means of an agreement on the right of entry, to give up the value added in the power agreement to the buyer, the buyer's dwelling or holders of other rights in the contract position. The proposal takes account of the role of the bankruptcy dwelling in the restructuring of businesses, including the desire to ensure the continued operation of industrial activities. In this way, the need for security and the interests of the guarantor are well balanced. The guarantee scheme shall apply to establishments registered within the SN2002, 20, 21, 24 and 27. This includes activities in wood and wood products, wood processing, chemical products and metals. However, the current statistical classification of economic activities changes from time to time. Both the Statistical Central Bureau and the Register of Units in the Brønnøsund Registers have now used SN2007 as a substitute for SN2002. I propose that a provision be made for the coverage law § 7-14 on the legal protection of contracts for the right of entry into long-term power contracts that regulates the transition from the food codes in SN2002 to SN2007. The business codes that will apply in the regulation of the coverage law § 7-14 will, of course, also apply to the guarantee scheme. I have noticed that the minority in the Business Committee, the members of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that the government has not delivered in terms of giving industry safe access to power at acceptable prices. I do not agree with that. I believe that the government has provided comprehensive measures to strengthen industry's power supply. I have already mentioned the guarantee scheme. Several measures have also been put in place to ensure the balance of forces and the development of new forces. During the period 2006-2009, about 3.5 TWh of wind and hydropower production and a concession of about 6 TWh have been granted. There are also plans for further development, including: through renewable energy deployment through a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. The launch of a single electricity certificate market for Norway and Sweden from 1 January 2012 will result in a large-scale deployment of renewable energy until 2020. Overall, the new electricity certification system will provide 26.4 TWh from 2012 to 2020, broken down by 13.2 TWh in each country. There is a production corresponding to about eight large gas power plants. Support is provided for energy efficiency improvement in industry. Since 2001, Enova has concluded contracts for nearly 14 TWh in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. One third of this has been achieved through Enova’s industry-oriented programmes. In total, industry has received support of about 1 billion. kr. Under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, an aid scheme is in place for enterprises in consortia of purchases. It was already in place in the context of the 2009 budget and is managed by Innovation Norway. I would also like to remind you that the government in the re-balancing of the State budget for 2010 has made proposals to strengthen state capital by a total of 14 billion. kr. The objective is to facilitate the realisation by State power of an investment plan of approximately 82 billion. kr, enabling the company to implement forward-looking investments in hydro and wind power and district heating. This government has been committed to providing industry with safe access to power at acceptable prices. I think I have a total mass behind me when I say that this is an area that needs to be of high priority. The support of a Joint Liaison Committee for this legislative proposal is a significant contribution to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3561	I'm assuming it's going to be added to 10 pst. at my time here, since the clock has begun to go. With regard to the legal text and the legal paragraphs, we agree on that. It's unanimous. The representatives of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party, however, have a critical note in the vote related to the promises given in the election campaign. Then I'm going to ask a specific question to the Council of State, because the Council of State was involved in this comment itself. During the election campaign in 2005, the Prime Minister promised to provide the powerful industry with electricity at below market prices. My question to the Council of State is this: Has the power industry now been given access to electricity at below market prices, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3570	We believe that this is a system that will give industry long-term, good contracts for electricity. It should be market-based, but this scheme affects the relationship between the buyer and the provider, so that we think this would be a better way to contract than if the industry were to buy its power on the spot market. So one might say that it gives industry a better price than it would have got in a free and open spot market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3575	No one has sent the powerful industry into the spot market. The spot market is only part of a number of different types of products purchased from the different suppliers. There are, among other things: fixed price with a mark-up, etc., a variety of different prices. No one has talked about sending the industry to the spot market. My question to the Council of State – which he did not respond to – I once again ask: Has the powerful industry been offered power that is below the market price?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3583	It is actually now that the power providers and the buyers will negotiate their long-term contracts on the basis of this. It's not the state that negotiates, it's the actors in the market that do. But this system will make the buyers get a guarantee system in their backs that makes you stand stronger in those negotiations. So I think that's answer good enough. This will make the industry get better contracts than they would otherwise have. I guess that's got to be the main thing. I am a little uncertain about what the representative is really looking for the answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3588	I think it was okay in the previous line to clarify that you had actually not delivered – at least not in relation to the election promises. I would like to ask for one of the majority's comments, because the majority points out in a note that 'the guarantee scheme intends to provide satisfactory risk relief for power sellers', and that is what we are talking about. But then it's written: ‘In this context, a specific responsibility to enter into long-term power contracts with industry should also be exercised, inter alia, in order to avoid significant changes in national power consumption over time.’;» It must therefore ‘sell a special responsibility’. This is a majority comment. Is the Council of State thinking about following up that comment in some way, for example: regulations, proposals on law, impositions on businesses, etc., because if not, is it really without effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3600	Now it is not the Council of State, but the members of the Committee who respond to comments on the vote. But we're trying best to follow up all the comments that Stortinget makes, whether it's the opposition parties, or whether it's the government parties that are behind them, as long as they have a majority. We always do that to the best of our ability. Another response from a government council would be unusually unwise. Then you'll see in each case where the various notes can be implemented. But I think long-term contracts for industry are a key factor in maintaining the power balance in Norway. I also believe that power sellers have advantages of having such contracts at the bottom of their sales, with long-term, secure and secure revenues. In this way, this is a significant contribution also to the power sellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3605	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3610	I'm quite the same in the case spokesman's statement from the outset, and when I take the floor in this case, it's just to say that I'm very pleased that we've got this piece in place when it comes to the industrial power regime. It does amazingly well. I can safely say that who knows the industrial community in Høyanger. It's very important for the red-green government to deliver on what Norwegian Industry said they needed, and what at least I went around and promised in the election campaign. Then I register that the Right Party and the Progress Party in the form of a note are dissatisfied with the government's efforts in this field as well. It's by no means surprising. Even if what I'm saying is, maybe it's boring toe, it has to be awfully annoying when there's a new government, that takes up the thread, that doesn't give up, and that doesn't mean this is a sunset industry. On the contrary, one gets the piece after the piece in a new industrial power regime according to a model from the Norwegian industry said they wanted it. This legislative change must be seen in the context of the establishment of a new guarantee scheme under GIEK and is a measure to enable 80–90 companies to pledge long-term contracts and risk relief for power providers. I thought it was very good. Fortunately, we have been standing red-green as a couple when it comes to relapse and that the water resources belong to the Norwegian people. I don't care that this can be changed if we get another multiple in this room. It should be noted by the Norwegian people. In conclusion, I would like to repeat the expectations, which are great for the actual conclusion of new, long-term power agreements. Signals are many, and they are strong, and they should be noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3623	I would probably be more surprised if the representative Hegø had not been satisfied with his fractional leader than I am because she was, in fact, and it is reassuring to hear that things are going well there. In the context of the text of the majority, which states that it is ‘power-selling a special responsibility’, there is also something more. It also states ‘partly to avoid significant changes in national power consumption over time’. Then you start to think about individual elements of this that I think are worth asking the Council of State whether this is the way to regulate the national power market. Is this the way to see whether you can get into force from the industry where you have a shortage, for example. in central Norway? Or how are you going to do that? In this context, there may be grounds for asking a question. The largest player in the Norwegian market is Statkraft. State power is, as I said, a whole-time public company that sorts under the Minister of Industry. So the question is, does the majority constellation mean that the Council of State should use its power at the General Assembly of State Power to force them to enter into contracts that they have not necessarily wanted to enter into? That's almost how you have to read this – that the Council of State almost gets a ‘go’ from its own here in the Chamber to go into these companies as well. The representative Heggø was also involved in issues related to the fact that it is good not to give up, and the industry has now been given the conditions to be met. I'm a little bit unsure if you mean it on the Sunndalsøra, when Su 3 is shut down, and when you don't have the opportunity in central Norway to get it back in the short term, because now there's a shortage of electricity in the same region. So I think you might have to look a little bit different at this. What the minority's comment is about is the difference between what you've promised and what you're delivering. It's not worse than that. The Prime Minister promised in the 2005 election campaign. It is possible that the representative Heggø has not promised it, and that it is only the Prime Minister who has done so – but I have also heard others – that electricity was promised that would be below the market price. It hasn't happened. The price is the same, but you should be able to get a guarantee in order to conclude a long-term contract. It's very good, and it's a unanimous big deal that supports it. But what we're pointing out is that there's a significant difference between what was originally promised and what was delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3634	There were some discussions about some remarks in the majority voting. It might be nice to follow up. There is no doubt that the power-processing industry, with its consumption within the Norwegian power system, has a significant role to play. It should be well known to the nutrition committee. The stable base load is a prerequisite in the Norwegian power system. It's not like you phase it out and in at your own discretion, but there's pretty planned patterns for it. In addition, there is an important other thing that is realized through it, that in some cases industry can be phased out where there is a need for extra power, and among other things. it has also been given the opportunity by means of the actions managed by Statnet in order to achieve adequate security of supply. So that's not completely immaterial the point mentioned in the vote from the majority in that context. It is desirable from the majority that that assumption is there over time. That is why we are also trying to put in place a system that eliminates some of the risks that power sellers have expressed in relation to binding to long-term agreements in industry. Both what is now provided for through advance payments and guarantee schemes and any tax positions thereon should serve a purpose, precisely to have more contracts concluded than has been the case up to now. So I think in this context we're not going to discuss the ratio of 2 cents above or 2 cents below market price. There is also reason to question what is the market price of a product that may initially have a production cost of 2 øre, 3 øre, 4 øre and where the market is very fluctuating. I don't think that serves the purpose. The starting point is to have an arrangement to relieve the parties in terms of concluding agreements, and that is what has been said to have been put in place through the arrangement that is now in place. I don't think it might disapprove of any discussion in the future, but it is at least one of several important measures to secure the power-generating industry in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3643	The Council of State's response to the replies of the representative Nesvik made it quite clear that the commitments given to deliver power below the market price, which was given in the 2005 election campaign, had not been delivered. I am therefore surprised when the chairperson of the Committee starts to question the concept of market price. You really don't know what that is. That's a slightly diffident term. It could be a little bit up, a little down. When it came to his clarification about this majority comment – which I understood the Council of State actually gave its hands to, and he would have to do so, it would be up to the majority to press this – I did not get an understanding of how to press force sellers to give him ‘a particular responsibility’ to enter into long-term power contracts to industry through this amendment, which we agree on, which is a cover guarantee law, which means that one becomes rid of counterparty liability, at least gets it minimized. We fully agree on that. That's excellent, but I can't understand that this majority comment was particularly well explained by the representative of Aasland. Then I want to say the same to the representative Heggø. I assume that she also heard the council say that you had not delivered on what you promised in the election campaign. Then you've done a number of other things, yes, but that's not the case here. But it's quite natural to talk about what was promised in the election campaign – and to be afraid that if there had been another majority, it would have been like this or that, it falls on its own unreasonableness. We're actually left with the agreement on this amendment of the law that we're adopting. I think that's okay, but adding this something more through comments is actually a bit serious. The Council of State says on the one hand that he implements what he can get implemented, as I understood it, while the majority cannot correctly explain what they mean by it, and how they intend to go on with it. It will then be quite difficult for the power sellers, who will read the minutes of this debate, to know how they will behave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3652	I have never been to North Korea, and after the post of the representative Hegø, I came to think that I probably don't have to go there. It was fantastically tidy, straight ahead and lovable. But then to the matter. In the case of minority comments here – it is possible that the Council of State was involved, but I was unable to get it with me – I ask a question. It's said in the note that we've got one part in place, and then you put a question mark on how it goes with the notification and approval of ESA. I would like to ask the Council of State: how far have you come from this, and does he realize that it can be problematic? It would be very stupid after such a flaming post from the representative Hegø to drop this on the lack of ESA approval. Is it possible to ask that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3659	As we said in our position on this matter, as regards comments other than those that are directly related to the content of the law, we mentioned something that we believe rests with the power seller or power manufacturer. I think that is quite timely in a matter like this. First of all, there's reason to ask the question: does it matter, or does it not, that we have a base load that industry represents? That question now ignores the Right and the Progress Party in this debate. That's actually what we're pointing out, and what's important about how to design Norwegian power supply, is that it's between 35 and 40 TWh that's industrially oriented as a stable base load. This is what Norwegian power supply is designed about, and that we are concerned about highlighting it as a dimension in this matter, I think it is quite natural, as instruments are put in place to try to motivate long-term power agreements. I don't think it's immaterial in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3666	I got a specific question about how the ESA approval is going. We have reported this to ESA according to the usual procedure. We've got some follow-up questions about more details and systems in the scheme. We hope that ESA will find that this is in line with EU legislation, that it does not involve State aid, but that it is a way of organising it that is acceptable. I must also say that in the debate that took place in 2005 – I remember well – the real issue was whether it was possible to do something, or whether it was not possible to do anything. Then the argument from the government that we were now part of the EEA system was that there were no instruments left. The Toolbox was empty. What we've found is that it's actually possible to do something. This guarantee scheme is an example of that. We believe that this will help the industry to get good and long-term contracts on acceptable terms. Sometimes it strikes me that what we are discussing in this room is a little away from the reality that many around in Norway actually experience. I have a lot of respect for the storeroom. I've spent my best years here. But there are some of these contracts that are actually negotiated between the industry and the power suppliers, which will be the phase of the discussion that is here. We don't need either the representative Nesvik or the fleet to stand here and state that this is a failure. The actors themselves will prove whether it is successful or failed. Now we've done ours. We have worked hard to find a balance between what EEA legislation allows us to do and what we want to achieve for our industry, with the amazing opportunity we have to produce things in an environmentally friendly way with our hydropower supply. We believe that this is such a system, which both meets the requirements imposed by international legislation, and at the same time meets the ambitions we have to facilitate long-term industrial development in Norway. I record that someone needs to say that this is not such an arrangement at all. I hope and believe that the whole Storting actually hopes that this will facilitate our industry, for that goal we must at least agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3682	I think I must remind the Council of State that it is a unanimous committee that supports the very proposal for amendments to the law on coverage. It's not like there's a majority and a minority who have faith in this or not. There's an overall committee that's in favour of it. I expect that the Council of State had also got along before he went to the pulpit, and not least after he sat down. I can only remind the Council of State of that, at least that ball is dead. I also remember very well the discussion back in 2005, which I attended, and we debated a number of these issues then. It was never about a cover guarantee law at the time. What was discussed at the time was whether it was possible to give the industry special advantages through a lower price or not. That is what was discussed when it came to long-term contracts. It was not the cover guarantee law of this case that was then debated. Yes, let's all hope that this is one of the tools – and I think it can be an instrument – that will help a lot of companies. But what the minority has shown is that there is no correlation between what you promised in 2005 and what you've done. I think this is important to get in place. Let's all agree on that, and then we'll see if ESA will accept it or not. I really hope that ESA will, because it has to do with Norwegian jobs. With regard to the posts of representative Aasland, no one questions whether or not to have a base load in the system. What you ask questions from the minority is what the majority thinks by saying that it is up to the power sellers to have a special responsibility, and not least how they actually intend to follow it up, because the state is the sole owner of the largest producer, Statekraft. That's the uncertainty we're referring to, and that's what we haven't got an answer to. But it is a unanimous committee that is voting in favour of the government's proposal. Let there be no doubt about it!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3693	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17, and the case is thus closed – with a smile! [[Fotation, see page 1762]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3709	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3718	First, I will be allowed to pay tribute to the proposers, who have put the spotlight on the important role of the voluntary sector in Norwegian society. If you add the goodwill, you can understand the committee so that the government parties also agree on the intentions behind the proposal, but that also stops the consensus and not least the willingness to do something concrete. It also shows the proposals that are being promoted. I would like briefly to justify two proposals on the right, which we are promoting together with the Progress Party. So I guess the other parties will explain theirs. On the right, it is very critical that the government of Stoltenberg does not take seriously the challenges faced by non-profit actors. We believe it is serious that the government does not show the willingness to use these important treatment services at a time when both child protection, drug abuse and others are struggling extra hard. As one of its main objectives, the right has the right to ensure the well-being of all. In order to succeed, we believe that closer cooperation between both non-profit, private and public actors is necessary. Stable and more predictable framework conditions for non-profit institutions and private institutions will contribute to increased diversity, increased quality and improved resource use also in public health and care. Such cooperation will provide patients with faster health care and more options. On the right, the proposers support the fact that there has been too much time without any action being taken. What we can see is that more and more of these offers are being dropped and the waiting lists for treatment have escalated since Stoltenberg took over in 2005. The combination of government requirements for health businesses to first exploit and build up their own capacity and a tendering policy that places too much emphasis on price as criteria makes very many ideal and private offers now disappear or are disappearing. Therefore, the right considers that it is urgent to extend existing agreements for both non-profit institutions and private institutions pending a political clarification of the role of actors in healthcare. And we expect work to be started as soon as possible that will solve the acute problems that ideal and non-profit institutions are facing, as an aggregate increase has also asked. Kathrine Evensen has created 57 jobs in the care of the elderly. They all work to care for old and sick people and to care for their fellow people. Kathrine Evensen has asked the Prime Minister the following questions: Why does Jens Stoltenberg believe that employees in the private sector are less caring than those in the public sector? Why does Jens Stoltenberg believe that elderly and disabled people are unable to make independent choices about their own welfare? Why is it more important for the government that welfare is public than that it is good? For me and the Right, it is incomprehensible that Kathrine and her employees are presented as a threat to the welfare and the Norwegian model. It is incomprehensible that her employees, with their care for others, are being presented as the enemy in Health-Norway by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Every day, we see that the policy of the government of Stoltenberg leads to a reduction in the provision of good welfare services by private actors, and the impact of elderly people, children with child protection, chronically ill people and patients in need of health care and rehabilitation. The civil parties agree on a proposal to strengthen the framework conditions for cooperation between all private actors and the public, in order to provide users with a good welfare offer. For the Right, cooperation between public authorities, private and non-profit actors is a strength for the Community – not a threat. For the right, it is important that good offers in ideal and private institutions are made available to everyone at the expense of the state, and not reserved for just a few with a good economy, as the government of Stoltenberg puts it. I will be allowed to take up the proposals from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3760	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3763	Document 8:136 S for 2009-2010 addresses the framework conditions for non-profit actors operating health, care and child protection services. First, I would like to thank and praise all those, both large and small, ideal actors, who are doing this kind of care. Without them, our welfare level would probably not be close to what is being offered today. Many users would not get the help they needed and needed, and many would have a life situation where the quality of life would be much worse. These non-profit organisations contribute to diversity, quality and good use of resources. There is free capacity in many places, but from a political and ideological point of view, some places will not buy services from private individuals. This is very bad, as it would otherwise make many more healthy as well as shortened waiting time for many. In addition, there would be many stable jobs out in the districts, as just a lot of them are here. The use of these sites will also give individual users the freedom to choose where they will be treated. There is also often greater security, as places are geographically closer and that places are often smaller than public ones, and you do not feel as small as you would in a large public institution. Recent studies also show that people have become more positive that services on which the public has more or less monopoly can be provided by private individuals. Today’s Newspaper reads that only 23 pst. are opposed to private solutions. At the same time, you can read that the Workers' Party writes the following on its website: ‘Trying to create markets for welfare services leads to costly, bureaucratic and impractical solutions. Therefore, the Workers' Party rejects the privatisation and competitive outsourcing of basic welfare services.» This is not what people want – nor is it the majority of those who vote in the Labour Party. This for information. It's a shame that work in this area takes so long. A total accumulation has wanted a work to be started on this. Governments have announced that the government will bring something, but nothing or nothing will happen. That is why this investigation must be initiated immediately, as the Progress Party and the Right ask in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox In our second proposal, we ask that existing agreements with non-profit institutions and other private measures be extended until the Storting has dealt with a matter on the framework conditions of these institutions. In order for these sites not to disappear or to reduce their offer, it should be in the interests of everyone, including the government parties, that the case will have a positive solution as soon as possible – to the satisfaction of both the users and the operators. The Progress Party believes that society is served by public cooperation with the private. These can complement each other in many ways, and by competing in a positive way about the users, this will make both stronger and increase the quality of the product you have. You can take turns, and thus the means that society uses in this area will be used to the maximum in a good way. Otherwise it is right to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, as document 8:68 S for 2009-2010, in this field. When it is recorded that the queues in different health-related cases are increasing, it should also be in the interests of the State with constructive cooperation. Whoever provides the services should be uninteresting as long as the country sets requirements specifications and appreciates the service. The fact that the proposals for the Progress Party and the Right most likely do not get a majority tonight is a very bad thing. It places a great deal of responsibility on the government parties that they should and must sort out, because there are many who need different kinds of help – and that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3794	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has promoted this proposal. This gives us a very good opportunity to make some political clarifications in the UK regarding public procurement. The interaction between the public sector and NPISHs to provide good services to the population has a long tradition and underpins robustness in the Norwegian welfare model. At my discretion, two main features have emerged from the examination of the proposal. The first is that the Public Acquisitions Act provides sufficient room for action in order to meet the policy objectives of this type of purchase. And point two is that tendering procedures and procurement leads are not sufficiently aligned with policy objectives. Government Parties and Christian People's Party agree to further develop the interaction between the public sector and NPISHs in order to improve the service provision of the population. It is even emphasised from these parties that NPISHs are a good complement to the public services and important partners with, among others, the NPISHs. a great deal of special competence. With an increasing need for care services — and increasing demands for quality and content — the need for interaction with non-profit organisations will also be increasing in the coming years. What's a fact, and that comes out very clearly in the setting, is that the Right Party and the Advance Party will not be involved in putting NPISHs into such a framework. The aim of health and care policies is for everyone to have an equivalent supply of health and care services, regardless of diagnosis, residence, personal economy, etc., and also, when disease strikes, people should experience an offer. The majority of these statements state that these are the main leads that need to be taken into account for public procurement of healthcare to the population. I would like to underline the importance of the following: In order to achieve this objective, non-profit and non-profit organisations contributing to welfare production must also be subject to stable and predictable contractual conditions within the contractual structure we have. Let me add that we are not against private actors, but we will not allow purely commercial companies to be raised in this case. The right hand side and the forward side add up to it just by proposing an enhanced market. I can refer from the setting, where the Right and Advance Party write very clearly: ‘It is therefore desirable to ensure a diversity of private health and care services, so that more people can use them at the expense of the country.’ So the focus is away from non-profit institutions in the Right and the Advance Party's comments, in my opinion. To meet that trend in the development of health and welfare services, this will undoubtedly be at the expense of the non-profit sector, and we will undoubtedly have a development in which the purely commercial interests are given more space than in today's system. As we see it, such a development is not desired. In other words, there is a significant difference between strengthening commercial opportunities and encroaching on welfare opportunities in a bearer and strong public sector and a diversity of NPISHs and foundations, as the majority do — in fact — in this position. Public procurement is of great importance, and we believe that this area far more than now needs political governance in order to meet the need for good and proper procurement through clear purchasing strategies. We therefore assume that the government will facilitate interaction between the public and voluntary sectors on the basis of the most long-term and predictable framework conditions. This will mean that procurement processes will have to be set up to meet the needs of users for stability and good services. Commercialisation, which now has a certain sense of being given a somewhat dominant position, needs to be assessed. It is therefore emphasised that for many services carried out in the field of health and care, contracting authorities should now place more emphasis on quality than on price when purchasing services. Now, when we do not vote for the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting, our main reason is that today's legislation provides sufficient room for action to meet the intentions of what the vote and proposals take up. It is important for the Storting to confirm precisely the fact that the Public Acquisitions Act has sufficient room for action and that this is marked by the fact that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol. That being said, it is important for me to stress the importance of ensuring that the purchaser is now given sufficiently clear guidance on how procurement is to be conducted, that the political objectives of a clear majority are achieved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3825	I don't think one of the private actors – neither ideal nor other private actors – is any longer calmed by good talk from the red-green parties. Once again you see a proposal where the setting is marked by party speeches and good talk, but where the action is totally absent, as it has been for five years. The main challenge for private actors in this area, whether they are family-owned, whether they are established by women entrepreneurs or whether they are operated by voluntary NPISHs, is the combination of the objective of the Soria Moria Declaration that healthcare businesses should first use their own free capacity before concluding agreements with other private individuals and a total lack of governance with the public procurement policy of this government. This means that health businesses undertake bids with blindfolds, without thinking about their private partners, or thinking about long-term, or thinking about patients’ ability to choose and to be diverse. The selection referred to in the vote was proposed at Stortinget on 9 June 2010, with a text that included the urgency of putting this in place. Well, now we've been told what the hurry is for a red-green government. Six months have passed and the sample has not yet been reduced. I doubt that one here is going to work a little faster in the future, especially when one heard the representative from the Workers' Party's posts, who basically told me that what is being done now is okay, and that can only continue. The consequences of this are, in the Right's view, so serious that one can now risk very many of the central institutions being gone before this sample starts working at all. There is a background to the proposal that the agreements now under way be continued from 1 January onwards, that they be covered financially from the Grand Duchy, and that one then gets a thorough job in a selection of the framework conditions, and the way in which this is to be done in the future, so that one actually preserves the diversity that is represented today. In the setting, an artificial distinction is sought between private actors owned by NPISHs and private actors such as: are family-owned or run by a founder. It turns out that most training institutions in Uppland counties, to which there has been some focus, are not actually run by NPISHs – although it can work like that, because those who run them contribute so much effort, so much idealism that almost a person can get the impression that they are run as private NPISHs – but as family enterprises, like private-owned limited liability companies. However, they are in exactly the same situation as the private non-profit institutions, both in terms of pension obligations, in terms of investment-related challenges, and in terms of short-term contracts challenges. In the setting, the red-green parties throw these institutions straight out and have no concern at all for them. These are the institutions that the population of Uppland stands for and wants to preserve, which today receive no mention whatsoever of parties other than the Right and the Advance Party. This is a very serious situation, precisely because these are institutions all around that represent important offers for patients. One sees, for example. in the field of drugs, that health undertakings are allowed by the government to require that all institutions also have an offer for patients in the field of medically assisted rehabilitation. Thus, they automatically fall out and are not included in the assessment. One sees that in some areas, for example: in Health West, in my own area in Stavanger, a proper bid is made to a non-profit institution, but one gives one big actor the whole offer, so that the next time you have to have a tender, there is only one big private non-profit operator again, and then Health West will use as a argument that this one private non-profit operator is so dominant that the health company itself has to build up an offer. This allows health businesses to operate and operate, until one finally has no private non-profit institutions left in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3842	First, thank you to the proposers for taking up a very important matter. The voluntary sector is an important part of society, and the ideal actors are an important element in our welfare state. Non-profits have long traditions to engage in challenges facing the welfare community. Often they have taken on new tasks and reached postponing groups before the welfare state has been able to establish good arrangements for these groups. Ideal organisations have often reached groups that have not been fully met by the established welfare system. But the ideal actors have come into a difficult situation. The market and supply practices that have gradually been established in the public sector are in the process of pushing out the ideal actors. Ideal actors with long experience, special skills and unique involvement will be placed on the sidelines for the benefit of commercial interests and international welfare producers. The majority of the committee points out that we have to distinguish between private commercial and private ideal actors. The ideal actors have different characteristics and different premises than the commercial ones, and we need to take that into account so that the non-profit organisations can get different conditions than purely commercial operators. The right hand side and the forward side have the opposite starting point. They combine the ideal and the commercial actors in their comments. This is a conscious and well-known rhetoric. They use this rhetoric as a crutch to facilitate the commercial players and the major international welfare producers. But it is precisely this equality between the ideals and the commercial ones that create problems for the non-profit organisations, and therefore also for a good welfare supply. The right party deliberately uses the composition of private and private commercial actors to produce an image where there is no difference between ideal and commercial, and in that way they create a situation where the commercial pushes out the ideal actors. In contrast, the majority of the Committee points out that non-profit and non-profit organisations have had, and will have, an important role to play in the Norwegian welfare community. The majority also point out that the health, care and social sectors are poorly owned by traditional supply competitions. It is therefore important to establish a more long-term and stable framework for ideal actors. In Soria Moria II, the government has stated that one will further develop the interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors, which are important contributors to welfare production. They have a high level of competence and a high level of commitment, and can present new solutions to the welfare challenges. Non-profit and voluntary organisations contributing to welfare production shall have stable contractual conditions and working conditions, while at the same time requiring quality, costs and working conditions. In this case, there is a clear distinction between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of the policy. The left is busy developing a good cooperation with non-profit actors to develop the welfare state and create a warmer society. The right-hand side is most busy assimilating the commercial and the ideal actors. They're busy giving commercial players the maximum possible space at the expense of the ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3868	I would like to begin by commending the Christian People's Party for including an important matter in this Document 8 proposal. I think it is positive that the Christian People's Party and the government parties have several common comments on this matter. It shows that we share many points of view on the matter. I think it is positive that the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties, also indicates that the objective of health and care policy is that everyone should have an equivalent offer of health and care services, regardless of diagnosis, residence, personal economy, gender, ethnic background and the individual's situation. When disease strikes, people must experience that they are offered treatment and care, with short waiting time and with the greatest possible proximity to the user. These leaders need to be used as a basis for public procurement of healthcare to the population. Beneficiaries of care services deserve an offer that is as tailored as possible to the individual’s needs. The Central Party also believes that the provision of health and care is a common task for the local and regional authorities. Private health services can be a complement to offer the best possible range of services, but they need to be regulated and included in public health plans. In this context, it is important to further develop the interaction between the public sector and NPISHs in order to improve the provision of services to the population. With an increasing need for care services and increasing demands for quality and content, the need for interaction with non-profit and non-profit organisations will be increasing in the coming years. It is therefore the case that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem and that it is a political task to ensure that the sector is maintained. Purchasers of public welfare services must have clear leadership from responsible political authorities in order to achieve policy objectives. I would like to stress that NPISHs are a good complement to public services, and important partners with special competencies, often built over a long period of time. The centre party believes that the role, competence and specificity of the ideals must be actively valued by providing conditions other than purely commercial operators, and we feel that it is urgent to establish more stable, predictable and long-term framework conditions for the non-profit institutions. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party and the government parties agree to further develop the interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors and non-profit organisations that are important contributors to welfare production, as has also been established in Soria Moria II. I also refer to the letters of the Council of State, where it is pointed out that today's legislation provides for a special exception for NPISHs in the regulation on public acquisitions Section 2-1, third paragraph. This opens up the possibility that acquisitions by NPISHs may be exempted from the requirements of Parts II and III of the Regulation. So is it that someone wants a sharp distinction between ideal actors and other private actors. Here I would like to remind you that it is not just a form of company that is crucial in this context. An actor that is organised as an AS and does not take dividends may be an actor of the same importance in this context as an actor who has chosen the form of formation as a company. However, what we in the Centre do not want to contribute to is to give larger commercial companies in health, care and child protection services greater opportunities – increased opportunities – for growth. In conclusion, I would like to say that in this case, both the Christian People's Party and the government parties point out that the health, care and social sectors are poorly suited to traditional tendering procedures, where short-term economic criteria are most often decisive. The built-in dynamics of the competition regime focus on price rather than quality, and short-termness rather than long-termity. In the further work, we in the Centre Party are concerned that one of the principles on which the law on public procurement is based also uses instruments other than open, restricted tendering. Purchases in negotiations may be such an alternative, as is also apparent from the Acquisitions Regulation, Part II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3894	For the Christian People's Party, this case is one of the most important issues we are dealing with at the moment, because we see that development is going in the wrong direction, and we see that there is an urgent need for political governance. We can no longer sit still and see that one ideal actor after another has to give up and shut down the operation of good and important offers. There is no reason to doubt that this is the reality of the non-profit sector. We all know about offers that have been laid down or that are fighting to keep our heads above the water: Styve Gard, who was doing a very unique and important job with addicted youth in Hordaland, and Oslo Hospital, with 720 years of humanitarian experience, which was not enough to win offers for continued care of mentally ill people. It's just to hear what the actors themselves have to tell, or to check our ‘red list’, which contains a number of more examples of establishments that have lost tenders and are closed or threatened by closure. These are offers that are not dropped because they are not needed, they are not dropped because the offer is of poor quality, they are not dropped because they do not have enough competence. No, they are closed because today's tendering system works like that, because the government wants to build up its own offer under its own control, or because the orders or large commercial operators are pushing prices down and thus pushing out the ideals. The ideal sector is about to be wiped out, because from the political point of view we do not intervene and ensure the development that we all actually want. The Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee agrees that there must be several ways to create stable, predictable and viable framework conditions for the ideal actors, and that is good. The Christian People's Party is even more pleased that the representatives of the government parties – who actually have the power to implement their policies – express a positive view of the intentions of the Christian People's Party's proposals, and that these parties assume that the government will continue its efforts to facilitate interaction between the public and the ideals. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party agree that the non-profit sector has a self-esteem, and that it is a political task to ensure that the sector is preserved. We are also pleased that the majority agree that it is urgent to establish more long-term and predictable framework conditions and that this needs to be clarified as soon as possible. We are pleased that the majority agree that all possibilities for using different procurement procedures need to be exploited in order to improve procurement. The majority assume that the legal space for action is used to achieve public procurement in line with political leadership. The majority emphasises the need to ensure political governance through public procurement in order to meet the need for good and proper procurement through clear purchasing strategies. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that government parties go so far as to say that they want a regime change to save the non-profit sector. What remains is to find solutions that meet these policy objectives, solutions that are in line with EEA legislation, but that provide a different regime from the current one. The Christian People's Party has promoted four proposals that we hope the government parties will follow up. Because despite political goodwill and good political intentions, the situation in the sector is very critical. An increasing number of non-profit actors are giving up due to difficult framework conditions and, with today’s system, non-profit actors will disappear in a short time. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party wishes to seek special arrangements and derogations from the general principles of tender and market which apply to this type of cooperation between public authorities and private operators. The Christian People's Party believes that the government must put in place a full stop immediately to prevent further damage. The Christian People's Party believes that all current acquisition processes must be frozen until new guidelines are in place. New guidelines must enter into force as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party also proposes that non-profit actors be lifted from the bidding rounds and that all agreements with non-profit actors be concluded by direct negotiations on contracts instead of by competitive tendering. The general principle should be that the procurement of health and social services from non-profit institutions serving households is subject to direct negotiations on operating contracts, not to competitive tendering. I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3916	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3919	I would also like to express boast, as it is called, of the initiative of the Christian People's Party in this matter, which I believe is both important and striking a nerve in the debate out there that also we others should have the 'catch' before. It was meant to be a compliment. So I'd like to say -- it's possible this would sound like a history lesson, but I'm a history teacher, so that's why it comes like this: there's nothing in our welfare state that isn't invented by so-called private or ideal. Of all the arrangements we've had from the mornings – from our social system, which started as a lay system, from our child protection system to our hospital system, with Fredrikke Marie Qvam and the other ladies in the Sanitation, they were afraid of tuberculosis and all that, to the Franciscan aid and what we see at Oslo Hospital, which began in the 1200s – no one was started by the state. The last thing we've done in this room was the crisis centers, which started out as a strong lady's movement, a movement of ladies who saw other ladies having it bad. It started with a lot of volunteering, it started with a lot of commitment, before we took over it. This is what we have seen, step by step, that the welfare state has been developed – at good and at bad. Sometimes we have lost something, such as when the Left voted against the crisis center takeover because we were afraid that we lost some of what these ladies have actually done over time, while some of it has been true that the state has taken – Fredrikke Marie Qvam went with his knitwear up Karl Johan, but one could not operate hospitals that way. We had to run hospitals in other ways. I believe that we lose something essential if we lose all the creative power that lies in social entrepreneurship and the voluntary commitment to do things better. Then it's possible we don't fit into all the study circles in all the parties – based on who it is that is bourgeois, and who it is that is socialist, who it is that is one, and who it is that is the other. But in such debates, I really feel like a centre politician. For this has always happened in a context and in a dialogue between the public, the private and the ideals. What we're looking at is happening right now is a fury, especially by the ideals. Then we lose two things. We can think of it from a purely capital/money point of view. If you think you're going to use outsourcing to get more money back, it's very stupid to destroy the market. Because what you're doing now is making sure that there's no one to compete later – there's no one to make offers other than those that are actors. It is those who have won these bidding rounds, which are included in the next round of tenders, because the competitor is not there. So if you think purely marketable, it's also pretty stupid to do such a thing, because you're ruining the market. So you can think in a completely different way, by saying that this is added value, that this is happening through social entrepreneurship, that it happens through NPISHs, that it happens through burning engagement. We know that in the drug field we need a variation, because there are people who need heroin, and someone who needs Jesus to get out of it. We need that width. If we lose that width, we also lose one aspect of the entire offer we have on the social side. So I have to say I'm a little startled that the government hasn't understood any of the problems it comes up with. It does not understand that the market is being destroyed if one is to think purely competitively. Nor does it understand the added value lost by losing the ideal players in this market. It's possible that this was a lot of history time, but I think we're losing the whole understanding of how our welfare state has been built up if we don't realize that it's this entire complex mosaic that helps to create our welfare state, that helps to give us a variety and an offer, and that helps to give, for example. addicted all of the spectrum of different solutions that help get our lives moving. The left will vote in favour of the proposal No. One, three, four, five, six. I hope that there will be something more out of this than just the laudable initiative that the Christian People's Party has taken through a Document No. Eight proposals. I hope that the government parties understand the seriousness, understand what is happening out there, and read the e-mails they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3938	The Norwegian welfare model is based on good and close cooperation with the voluntary sector. Better framework conditions through increased appropriations and greater recognition of volunteering have been at the heart of our government's voluntary policy. The non-profit sector is a major and important provider of healthcare services. The public sector is therefore dependent on the provision of quality services at a reasonable price by the non-profit sector. On the other hand, the purchase of such services by the State and local authorities is also of great importance for the non-profit sector. The public must act in a professional manner and in accordance with the rules governing public acquisitions. At the same time, we must ensure that the ideal organisations have stable and good framework conditions. Today, we have an exception to the procurement legislation when purchasing health and care services from the non-profit sector. Public procurement of health and care services from NPISHs does not need to follow the detailed procedural rules. However, the contracting entity must comply with the essential requirements of the legislation, including: that the purchase is, as far as possible, based on competition. This results from the law on public acquisitions and our international obligations under the EEA Agreement. It is not possible to conclude agreements with non-profit actors in direct negotiations. So today's legislation gives a choice to the buyer of a service: either you can hold restricted competitions, where only NPISHs are offered, or you can conduct competitions in accordance with the procedural rules of the procurement law. The public must choose the most appropriate approach in the specific situation. In addition, professional action must be taken to ensure that health and care services maintain a good quality at a reasonable price. At the same time, it is important to ensure good and proper procurement through clear purchasing strategies. The Government is concerned that the legislative space for action is being used to ensure long-term and predictable framework conditions for actors. It is worth considering whether contracts have an appropriate length in any case. Consideration of the necessary investments to be made by operators and the need for stability and continuity of users must be central to the choice of contract duration. At the same time, I find it difficult to see that it is possible to establish some general guidelines on the length of the contract that apply in all cases – regardless of the services to be acquired. This must necessarily depend on a concrete assessment based, inter alia, on: what to acquire and how complex the services are. The needs of users and the quality of services must be central to the choice of procurement procedures. The competition requirement does not necessarily require suppliers to compete primarily on price. The regulatory framework allows for heavy involvement of quality criteria at all stages of competition. At the same time, the public sector — including in the purchase of services — shall use the resources in the most efficient and efficient way possible. Money spent on inefficient procurement could alternatively have been used to achieve other welfare objectives and to finance other welfare services. The Government is concerned that employee rights are well respected in the procurement procedures. Regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts is an important instrument and the government is working to improve this legislation. The Minister of Health has already – and there is a lot of debate here on health and care services – announced that work will be started on a general review of the framework conditions for the non-profit sector. I have joined this. The government will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a detailed explanation. Stopping all new tenders requires the extension of existing contracts. A new contract will be considered unless the extension is part of the original competition. Renewal without a new call will be illegal. The alternative is for users to stand without services. I cannot therefore see that it is neither appropriate nor that we have legal access to stop all tendering procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3974	A recent study shows that 46 pst. provides for more private care. A majority believe that the quality is getting better with a large amount of private. Seven out of ten are positive that people have the opportunity to choose. Seven out of ten believe that it doesn't matter who does the service, and only 23 pst. are opposed to private solutions in competition with public authorities. Then my questions are: in what areas are there government parties in no way able to cooperate with private people? If there are no areas, why is there not more positive about private/public cooperation in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3979	I feel that the government has a constructive cooperation with both non-profit and private organisations in many areas. In health care, many, both nonprofit and private, provide services. We see the same thing in the area of child protection, and not least we see it in the area of kindergartens. But the government is concerned that we use the public where we have public capacity, and that it should be the first choice when we have established, for example. public hospitals. In the municipal sector, I am aware that there is extensive cooperation in many areas. But primarily it should be the municipalities that have the basic responsibility for the heavy services, as we see it today. Care services are mainly provided by the municipality sector, and municipal self-government will exist here, so that it will be up to each municipality to decide what mix you want to have — of self-produced services and what you might buy from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3984	The government and the red-green parts are in the setting very busy making a sharp distinction between private on one side and private ideals on the other side. The Council of State is itself from Uppland and is well aware that the Silver Shot Mountain, which was established in 1969 by the Rikstrygdeverket, is owned by private individuals, that the Tonsåsen, which was established in 1881, and which has been run by the Hovi family since 1980, is owned by private, and that Fron Rehabilitation Center, which in 2006 received 6.5 million. SEK from the Health and Social Directorate to convert is owned by private individuals. What is the government having against these institutions, since they are not going to have the concern and care that is now obviously suddenly given to private ideas, even though it is also going terribly late and it is really not happening? What's wrong with these three institutions, which means that they won't have a future and could also offer patients in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3991	I think the representatives of the government parties are able to answer for the comments they have written in the setting in a very good way. There is nothing wrong with the three institutions to which the representative Höie refers. As far as I am aware, they have participated in the competitions that Health South-East has announced. I am not fully aware of how they have achieved the competitions of Health South-East regarding health and rehabilitation services recently, but I know that several of them have provided services in the past. It is true that the government believes that voluntary and non-profit institutions have a self-value. There is a lot of expertise in non-governmental organisations, and they have gone ahead in many ways. This does not mean that we exclude private supplements to the public services. We've had a long tradition for that, and I think we're going to have that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e3998	Health South-East is now to conclude an agreement, as we have understood, with Oslo Hospital. State Secretary Kåss was proud of this the other day, when there was action outside here. He concluded that it was the politicians and the government that led the health sector, and that Oslo Hospital was to be further driven. This shall be done through an independent, separate direct acquisition, referred to in the press release from the Ministry of Health and Welfare the other day. Also once before, Health South-East made a similar agreement, in the drug sector at the time, after I understood that it was imposed by a former Health Council from the Workers' Party. My question is whether the Council of State can confirm that this way of concluding agreements is in fact in line with the rules of public procurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4005	I find it difficult to go into a single matter that I do not know the details of, but it has been done in the past by giving some development tasks to individual companies, where you have to test out some special circumstances and do some very special tasks. But I am not familiar with the content of the agreement concluded between Health South-East and Oslo Hospital. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on whether it is within or outside the rules of public procurement, so I am not aware of the specific content of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4011	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4016	Norway is changing strongly in the case of non-profit institutions serving households. Under this government, institutions after the establishment of the pioneers in the health and care sector have had to lay down. This is about drug institutions under the command of the Blue Cross and the Salvation Army, it's about child protection institutions under the direction of the Church's Social Service, it's about private services within psychiatry under the control of diaconal foundations, and individual hospitals like Oslo Hospital. This change means that the pioneers in the health and care sector, in the area of drugs, child protection, etc. is being chased out of the sector and diversity is getting worse. And last but not least: this leads to a weakening of the offer to users. In all these areas, there is a lack of supply. It's cows. Drug users are referred to government cows as replacements for the ideal institutional services. Children’s protection users are also widely referred to poorer offers and to waiting times within the public system. Ideal institutions are under pressure from two sides, and I think the debate here today illustrates this very well. From the commercial sector, and from the public sector, the pressure comes against the ideal institutions. I am glad that there is such a broad understanding of this in the setting. So far, the politically responsible have given up their hands in relation to the developments that have taken place. They've let that happen, they've given the impression that they're not in agreement, but in practice it's happened, to a large extent. Now it's the moment of truth. The time of the celebrations is over, now we need to know if there is action behind these words that the representative of Aasland so excellently clarified at the end of his post. Is it the case that, in line with the request made by the representative of Aasland, the government will use the guidelines drawn up by the majority in this position for its policy in this area, for the development of new framework conditions for non-profit institutions and for the implementation of ongoing tenders? It is essential to get an answer in this debate. I would ask the Council of State to give concrete answers as to whether it is such that these guidelines, drawn up by the majority of the Committee, will be converted into instructions for health businesses, for the Buf Directorate and others who manage these tasks in practice. That is what determines whether this debate has any significance today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4029	My post will today be dedicated to the government. I want to thank and praise the government parties in the Committee for the clear demands they make there. ‘How can 700 years of history be left with a pennacle?’ In the class struggle on Saturday, this question was asked. History is about Oslo Hospital that doesn't get an agreement with Health South-East, or maybe get an agreement they can't live with. It is the patients who are affected when institutions lose tendering. If Oslo Hospital does not get an agreement with which they can survive, the closure leads to 40 pst. of the beds in mental health disappears for vulnerable groups in the districts of St. Hanshaugen, Grünerløkka and old Oslo. I wish there was something in what I just said, which made it ring a bell at the Council of State – first, that traditional institutions that treat seriously ill and that have competent and engaged employees must have more predictability than that they can stop operating in a few months, it happens in these days, and second, that health, care and child protection services are not suitable for competition. This is not industrial policy. The Government writes in the Soria Moria II Declaration: ‘Non-profit and non-profit organisations contributing to the well-being of public suppliers shall have predictable contractual conditions and working conditions’, etc. The fact that the government calls services to seriously mentally ill, addicted, the sickest elderly and child protection children for production is a little special. It's actually about giving the people involved good treatment. It's about willingness to use the good ideal institutions and find solutions. The Government may no longer hide behind the tendering legislation. Many non-profit institutions have had to give up or are in the process of liquidating in those days because of their tender practices. That is the reality. Setting up a new sample to work for several months only leads to more closures. Either the Council of State must state correctly that the government considers it appropriate that non-profit institutions compete with each other and that they prefer all public services, or there are a number of things the government needs to do, namely change the legislation, secure long-term and predictable agreements and, in particular, ensure that the size of the tenders is equal to the available capacity. This last one is not least important in terms of Oslo Hospital, which might just fill up a third of its capacity. They can't live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4049	Framework conditions for non-profit actors operating health, care and child protection services are an important field of action. This is a very good setting. It well clarifies the distinction between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. The right and the Progress Party use the concept pair ‘ideal and other private actors’. This includes family-run enterprises and women entrepreneurs – it is politically correct to talk about – while one has not yet heard that multinational commercial companies are also involved, which is the reality we stand up to. It is liberating to read the comment of the Christian People's Party, where it says: ‘If they are to operate on equal terms, they will rapidly compete with the ideals.’ Priest! The government parties and the Christian People's Party wish, in their interaction with the public institutions, that 'private commercial and private ideals, non-profits, actors must be distinguished'. In the private non-profit institutions there are family limited-liability companies whose purpose is not the greatest return on capital invested. There are very good comments, clarifying remarks, that say all the important things about what the governing parties and the Christian People's Party are engaged in. It is said that a person should receive his/her health care, regardless of the relationship he/she has to work — whether or not he/she is there. It is said that interaction with the ideals and non-profits is becoming more important in the future, that a stable and predictable framework must be in place, that one must look at issues that are acute for the institutions. It is said that there are possibilities under public procurement law. It is said that the non-profit sector has a maritime value. Yes, it is said very, very much positive. The question then arises: why cannot ideal and non-profit institutions be treated differently from private limited liability companies with the highest share price as their object? I have a suspicion that it's because the committee majority hasn't got the reef out of here, to use a built-up expression. One has not got the reef out of here. The revision is very likely to be called the EEA Agreement, and it is difficult to get into the open. I would like to say to the Council of State that the representative Højbråten pointed out the seriousness of the matter and that it is important to come back with proposals in the Grand Duchy in line with the majority of the committee's comments. The centre batch is very concerned that it is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4065	I think it's a completely different reef we're talking about here, and that's the regional health companies, in the health and social sector. There, the representative Lundtigen can use his agrarian expertise – get to hate that reef, so much has been done. Because this is not about the EEA Agreement. There are other countries that do this in an excellent way. And if it was the EEA agreement that was the problem, how could the diaconic hospitals in this city continue their operations without being put to tender? The EEA ghost does not help in this context, because there is no such thing as ghost or fox. I must say I am surprised when I see that the Council of State has not yet signed up for a new post. Is it to be understood that the challenge that the government has been faced with is to base the attitude, apply, or are you on thin ice because there is a struggle between the bureaucracy in the first place in the government and perhaps some government councils, and the red-green parties here on the Stortinget? We have had every reason to believe this in the last five years, that it has been a political majority against the regime – the bureaucratic regime – that is now working on these issues in relation to what is the political majority here in the Chamber. I would recommend the Minister of Health and the Council of State who is here today to take a look at the press release from Health South-East from 6 December 2010, entitled ‘Buy from private institutions’. It's really worth a study on how to cover your own invulnerability, how to try to get out of a difficult situation. This is about Oslo Hospital, and I'm going to read from the press release. There is now a review procedure in place, and nevertheless one performs to say: ‘However, we see that the results of the acquisition of mental health protection can lead to slightly lower capacity for some patient groups in Oslo. This applies in particular to patients with severe psychiatric disorders and patients who require treatment in a more sheltered treatment environment.’ In the ordinary tender, Health South-East has not even taken into account the patients most in need of treatment. This is going to strike, and I can't see how a red-green government can sit still and look at this. If it does, it's in conflict with the population. It turns out it's not the government that rules. It's a bureaucracy – or a reef, for that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4081	I think it has been a good and exciting debate, and we have got some clarification. We have a two-part division in this room: it's those who want to merge the commercial and the ideal and through it provide benefits for the commercial ones, and then we have those who see that there is a need to have special arrangements for the ideal and social entrepreneurs if they are to survive in the supply structure that has now emerged, in order to give commercial people good opportunities to come in with their offerings. The reason I took the floor again was the post of the representative Skei Grande. Her story can I have my point of view, but that wasn't my point. My point was that I had problems getting to the conclusion. I see that the majority in the committee have been relatively clear that even if it is difficult, we are forced to find some distinction between ideal actors and social entrepreneurs on the one hand and the large commercial, heavy social suppliers on the other. What I didn't get was if the representative Skei Grande thought one would come out of this without making such a distinction. I got the impression of that in her articles. On an appropriate occasion, it might be interesting to see to the right whether left tries to write here, or whether they have taken a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4088	I expect the Council of State to have the same interest in and the same overview of all the non-profit institutions that are closed, as the Christian People's Party has pointed out in this matter. We also have another list - a list where the warning lights light up, and they light up red, and one and one disappears week by week. We ask in our proposal for immediate action to prevent this from happening. Does the Council of State think that we will have a non-profit sector in the future if we continue today's policy without taking active action, and that there will not only be good words in any joint comments? Or can we look forward to the spring session where the Council of State can show us a list of rescued NPISHs, because the framework conditions were changed, that immediate action was taken? I hope I get an answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4095	I feel it reassuring if my post did not fit into a study circle in SV. It's very rare that my value system does just that. I think it's possible to make distinctions between the ideal and private actors, but I don't think all the private actors fit into the SV study circle. Some of them are probably large multinational companies, which produce some services, and some of them are the families, which Bent Höie and others talked about, who have run these small companies, foundations and others for 30–40–50 years for generations. Then maybe it's not as simple as it's in a study circle in SV. There are no multinational large companies rolling in and wanting to bottle up Norway's welfare fund. At least there's something completely different you meet when you actually go out and meet them. I'm actually a little worried after this debate. From the government parties I notice a lot of goodwill. There has been a lot of positive talk in this debate and in the remarks. But I remember when the Prime Minister stood here last, and the Prime Minister rejected any approach, as is the one in this Chamber today. There were only bidding rounds where you drove hard bones, which would apply. The vast majority of people in this room are probably familiar with the picture Skrik, painted by Edvard Munch in the hill above Oslo Hospital. When you read about Munch, you see that the art historians disagree a little bit. A wing at least thinks that the description Munch gives when he draws the picture is that it's kind of a mute scream, but it's the whole world that screams. One of the arguments for what makes him get this experience is that he's standing in the ground over the Oslo Hospital where his sister is admitted. This was a time of other medication, and it was probably possible to hear the screams from the Oslo Hospital at the time when you were standing up in the ground. That's probably what inspired Edvard Munch's most famous painting. The problem now is that no one hears these screams. It's good for us who are neighbors of Oslo Hospital, but it's not good for the heavy, big important institutions this is, which you should have heard the screams from. I am very concerned about having a government that in itself can say the right things, but that has a prime minister standing on this platform and rejecting the issue, which is unable to vote for any of the proposals. Now, fortunately, I see that the Council of State has signed up, so I hope we get some clarifications. But I'm afraid this is shadow boxing, and that we're really not getting any closer. There are very much good intentions in this room, but no will in the house two quarters further up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4108	I got some direct questions, and I can confirm that, of course, the government will follow up on what are the majority comments here in this room today – it should just be missing. Then I have also said in my post that we have started work on the framework conditions for the non-profit sector, and we will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Then I need to say that it is actually not that it is possible to jump over the EEA acquis. It is at the bottom, and it must be the basis for the purchases we are going to make. So we have to do it within the EEA legislation. In fact, I think we are well served not to push Norwegian institutions into cases for KOFA, and possibly ESA, so there are penalties against the agreements that are being concluded. Then I have recorded that very much of the debate here is about the health and care sector. I do not know in detail how many NPISHs have lost contracts in the health and care sector. It's possible to get an overview. But I saw, among other things, in an offer made by health establishments. There were seven establishments that used to tender. All seven were ideal, but there were still two pieces that were not accepted. So I know that there are people who have more money than the government parties to spend on health matters, and then it is possible to make larger tenders. But making tenders according to the capacity offered in the market at all times, I think will be quite demanding, because there are many new players coming in, and everyone has expectations of winning tenders. Should the tendering system work, we also have to accept that someone does not win tenders. But the government is, as I said, prepared to follow up the majority remarks. We're going through the code. I think we'll take time for that review. One of the things that I thought was very good in the health service when I worked in the Ministry of Health and Welfare was, among other things. arrangements which have been applied to the tuna. It was good in child protection, and it was good in mental health. But entering the tune is driven by farmers, who are neither ideal nor volunteer. They are self-employed. I have seen good measures being taken by municipalities. Municipalities are not ideal or private either. It's also about finding a good balance, so that we hit the institutions we're busy with. I still think there will be private institutions that will fill in the picture we have in the health and care sector, including in the area of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4121	I think it was good to end, at least for my part, this debate by saying that of course we mean what we write in the vote. I might have been a little overjoyed as the Council of State also confirmed it. If not, I would have become more concerned. But we mean it, because it is quite clear that we also perceive the situation in which it is not wanted. Therefore, one has to make the assessments, the considerations and get what is contained in the majority comments made through this position. Then I would like to comment on Bent Höie's articles here at the beginning, where he says that we carry out the purchase 'with blindfolds for the eyes'. I also want to stress that for my part it sometimes hurts to see that some private operators who have provided services for many years in my own county and in my own vicinity to the population lose the offer. On the other hand, it is a little strange that it comes from the Right, which in any other case says that there are tenders and competition that – to say the least – promote quality, and that is the solution to almost any question in the care sector. It is strange that they call it a policy, or a purchase, ‘with blindfolds’. After all, it may have to be a good expression to use hereafter when the Right comes with its solutions to care for the elderly, etc., and say that yes, yes, it is to consider that the Right is talking and thinking ‘with closeness to the eyes’, because it is Bent Höie until they underline the consequences of the offer and competition in relation to it. Then I didn't mean in any way that we in the setting pull private out. On the contrary, we have taken into account what the proposers point out, to provide the non-profit sector in a highly competitive market, and where commercial operators become harder and harder as time passes. I also think that the opinions of the Christian People's Party now in this debate underlined that, at least in a good way, we have managed to get it through the majority position that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4130	It has taken the government five years to find solutions for the non-profit sector. Also in the last growing-up period, the government promised to come back and look at both legislation and other, how we could save the non-profit sector from what is now happening. As far as EEA legislation is concerned, I would like to ask the Council of State what makes other EU countries, even EU Member States, do in a completely different way from what we do in Norway. We've been talking about this for years from the Christian People's Party. Then I think it is good that it is clarified from the government parties in Stortinget that this should be followed up. They trust that it will be followed up. But I'm worried when the Council of State is standing here talking about a sample that's going to be put down, and we're going to go through this. The Council of State would very much like to take the word once more, and I hope to hear that that selection goes on a longer-term matter – if not on a long-term basis, so more on the whole voluntary sector, and that is a little different from what we are talking about now. Several institutions will be closed if nothing is done immediately. Thousands of rubies are still in the queue. Employees have been laid off, both in Oslo and in the West, and even in my own municipality – great institutions that have built up their care for many decades. If it hadn't been patients who needed this, I shouldn't have said anything. Had there been poor quality in these institutions, we could not say anything either. But there are almost 4,000 addicts in line, and, as a matter of fact, they live in the Bergens region. We're not going to wait for a new sample, are we? I just have to ask the government parties in Stortinget: will they accept that there is a new sample that will now be sitting and working on this? Will they accept the winding-up of so many institutions that have already dismissed employees? Will the government accept that? It has to be more than words. It must actually act to, acutely, for the ideals that are now in the process of liquidation. Then you can have a sample for other things in the long term, but not to save the ideals that today don't know their poor advice. It's the patients that's hit, no one else.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4144	Alf Egil Holmelid has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4147	I can offer the representative Skei Grande many study circles if she feels she needs it. They're not saying that we're getting away from the hard bounds. Once again, we have to be able to do something special for the volunteers, for the ideals and for the social entrepreneurs, in some way we have to separate them from the commercial ones, which we should not treat in a special way. So it's not said that we're not going to have other private ones, but now we're going to treat the ideals and the social entrepreneurs in a special way. Then we have to describe them in some way, and that problem cannot get out of hand by referring to the study circles of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4154	There has been a long and interesting debate. I took the word to clarify a few things, especially the first point, in the light of the Council's last article. I am very pleased that the Council of State clarifies that it wishes to follow up the clear will expressed by the majority here, the very clear recognition by the majority that the non-profit organisations have a historic role in the Norwegian welfare society, that they still have a role in the further development of the Norwegian welfare society, and that it has a self-valued duty to maintain precisely those actors in the Norwegian community and in the welfare society. So the Council of State showed that when you have a tender and a competition to get a deal, there are some people who have to lose these tenders. The Council of State is right in that. However, the problem is that those who report these concerns, the institutions that now report that they are close to closure and are in the process of dolling, are the organisations that have lost these tenders. But the institutions and organisations that have won the tenders report the same thing. They do because the conditions they've been given are not to live with. There are too short periods to take care of the professional environments, to build up a professional environment, to raise loans to finance maintenance, rehabilitation of buildings, etc. The framework conditions are such that they are not to be met by those who lose the tenders and by those who win the tenders. It should also be noted by the Council of State in its further work. I am pleased that it is expressed so clearly from the majority here a clear political will, and that the Council of State has said she will follow it up. Finally, I just want to refer to what the clear will is all about. The majority of the Committee, namely the Red-Green and Christian People's Party, stated in its opinion that ‘there is a need to establish a more long-term and predictable framework for the non-profit-making activities’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4165	I heard the red-green parties say in connection with a similar position on 9 June this year that it was also urgent. To put it that way: June 9, 2011, these institutions are not going to be here anymore, so then it's no longer urgent. The representative of Terje Aasland obviously did not get what it meant to run a bid with a tie in his eyes. It is because a government now has a government that is in principle opposed to offers on routes, but allows health businesses and Bufetat to submit bids with blindfolds for children, children's protection, intoxication, psychiatry and rehabilitation. I will explain to the representative Aasland what a bid for blindfolds is. It's e.g. where a health undertaking authorises one major operator to submit a tender. Next time, no one else can take part in that competition, all the little ones are wiped out. One also has no option as a patient to choose between different offers. Tenders are available for the eyes, because one could make it clear in the tender that a person would like to take care of a variety of offers and had the opportunity to do so. Tenders for the eyes are tendered when one says that quality requirements should apply to 70 pst., price 30 pst. When such tenders are submitted, one defines that all the operators comply with the quality requirements. So they're all equivalent in terms of the 70 psts. Then it's only the 30 pst. on price which means something, i.e. no quality requirements. Tenders for the eyes are offered when, for example: states that all drug institutions should be able to receive LAR patients. That means those drug institutions which, in principle and professionally, believe that it is wrong to mix drug addicts who are drug-free, and drug addicts who are drug addicts from the state. They are then defined out of the tender immediately – i.e. the variety disappears. Tenders are offered for the eyes when you have a call for tenders within the psychiatry where you do not define in advance what offers you have, such as: Oslo Hospital obviously loses a tender because they offer to mentally ill people who need a completely different follow-up — in other words, a completely different manning from that required by the other institutions participating in that tender, and thus loses the offer on price, because Health South-East has made a binding bid for the eyes. The representatives of the government parties say that the note says it – the note says it. Yes, but on the part of the government, there is absolutely nothing going on, because both Bufetat and, in particular, regional health companies are allowed to do that practice. They've been doing that for five years, and the consequences are dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4180	First to Laila Bavøy: I just want to refer from my post. There I said that the Minister of Health has already ‘declared that work is being undertaken on a general review of the framework conditions for the non-profit sector’, and that ‘I have joined this’. I didn't mention anything about any selection. The only time I see a sample mentioned is in the setting on page 5, where the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party in June asked the government to set down a public sample. So the government hasn't done that; we've been working other ways and we're going to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Then there was also a question from the representative Syversen instead, relating to some of the diaconic hospitals in the Oslo region that had not been on the market. It is true that some operational agreements were taken over from the county when the health reform was introduced in 2002. The preparatory work of the Health Business Act states that the institutions concerned were an integral part of public health services and were included in the regional health plans at that time. Therefore, they have direct contracts with health businesses. However, there is no doubt that new contracts must be concluded in line with the public procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4187	When I talked about the diaconic hospitals, it was in relation to the EEA rules. If they were against the EEA rules, we would probably have heard something from ESA a long time ago. I assume that Norway can do what other countries do in this context, namely have far-reaching exceptions in terms of the non-profit sector in health and social matters. But the question is what the government wants. Will it see problems, or will it see solutions? For five years the government has seen problems, at least some in the government. At least someone in the government's bureaucracy has seen problems, and they've won. The question now is: have we now come to a crossroads also politically, where is it intended to have political governance with this? That's what this case is about. Then I'm very happy that the Council of State says you're coming back to the Storting with a job that I'm counting on mouths to change in practice. I ask to be corrected, but is it so that this work can end with a decision here in Stortinget before summer? If there's any point in the majority here talking about the urgency of finding a solution, it must at least be that before summer, the Storting can take a final decision and put an end to a practice that is currently going on, which is an accident for Norwegian society, and which I would say is – if I had seen it from a red-green point of view – extremely embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4194	I think the representative Syversen can feel absolutely certain that the government is going to come back to Stortinget. It's going to come back to the Storting with something that can be decided, because the Christian People's Party has put the way properly open to a grip that the government is going to grab with great desire. The desire is that the Christian People's Party should once and for all get rid of the private institutions in this area. The Christian People's Party ensures that the volume that's going to be in health will consist of public and what the Christian People's Party calls ideal institutions. In my county, there are four family-owned rehabilitation institutions who have worked for a few generations and who have provided good services. There's not going to be room for them – one is under closure, the next is on the brink of closure, and the last two are going to be closed when the Christian People's Party gets what they want. It's going to be met with great bitterness and indignation, just in relation to the Christian People's Party. What wrong have they done, which is going to have to be subjected to the kind of argument and the kind of approach that the Christian People's Party fronts? I must say that the reason why I now took the floor was triggered by the representative of Davøy, where the representative of Davøy was so worried about the patients – think about it! The representative Davøy worried about the patients. How hollow can this sound? For me, this is one of the most hollow things I've ever heard in incredible lengths. We have a large capacity that stands there, which could help to make it effective. You could have had a bigger capacity if you wanted to, but you don't want to, because you want a grip where there's only a certain kind of offer that appears to be worthy of the Christian People's Party, and that would be good enough to have a future in the Norwegian Health Service. I can only say that I am deeply, deeply disappointed by the grips of the Christian People's Party, both in this context and in other contexts where we have a parallel problem, and I think I share the disappointment with those who have taken a life to build up institutions that, within the framework desired by the Christian People's Party, have no future in our health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4205	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4208	I took the word now just too short to say that it's Bent Höie taking up, we've commented so far from the majority. We're going to write: ‘The majority indicate that the health, care and social sectors are poorly suited to traditional tendering procedures, where short-term economic criteria are most often decisive. The built-in dynamics of the competition regime focus on price rather than quality, and short-termity rather than long-termity.» What the real representative Bent Höie actually says, we've written from the majority into our position, without the Right being in it. The consequence of what Höie says should have been that he, as a representative, and perhaps also the party he is actually a member of, should have had a completely different conclusion at the entrance to this, and that is that tenders and competition are not suitable for this sector, but perhaps for other sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4218	We all have different experiences, but for a reweigher, it is strong to hear the representative Syvertsen, who believes that the fox is in the regional health companies, as if they were to live their lives completely independent of the political will of the Council of State – that is, strong – as if it were possible for the administrative director of a regional health company to work against the will of the owner. No, the thing is probably also that it's bad for the Christian People's Party to see the fox in the open, see where the problem really is. I think the Council of State has clearly described this as a problem. I am surprised that no more EEA members have the courage to address the problem, see the challenges and state what such a person can do in the event. Otherwise it is strong to experience here the touching experience of the Right who weeps with their innocent blue eyes because ideal or non-profit institutions lose their bids. It's really touching. I must say it so strongly that it is not to be honoured that the Right does not openly dare to defend its health ideology, as in other areas, that there are offers that are the saluting. Why not defend with bram and boldness that the system that is being tendered is a system that should also be applied in this area? Otherwise I have to say that it is strong by the representative Thommes to criticize the Christian People's Party as they do, as if the Christian People's Party wants to get rid of the private institutions in Uppland. It bears witness to a desperation on the Right that I think is quite special. Everyone who knows the Christian People's Party knows that the kind of private institutions in Uppland are close to the hearts of both the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. It is totally unheard of to go to such attacks on the Christian People's Party just because the Christian People's Party has gone up the ideological dividing line, where the red-green parties and the Christian People's Party stand together, and where the Right and Advance Party stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4227	Finally, I would like to say that in relation to the relationship with the EEA Agreement, it is actually just to take a look around our neighbouring countries and see how to practice the same things there, and how it is actually at a completely different level in relation to using bids and market mechanisms and caring for its ideal foundations, organisations and institutions. You can also see in the legal texts that we have a room for action that we have not fully exploited today, and that is what we are asking for in this case. Then it was the representative Olemic Thommess who challenged the Christian People's Party and made me take the floor. It is not that the Christian People's Party wants the commercial out of the health, care or child protection sector. No, we actually don't. On the contrary, these sectors have many commercial players today. They make an important contribution, and they are welcome to continue to contribute. But that's how the ideal sector has a self-esteem by virtue of its idealism, by virtue of the strong story we have where the various health and care, welfare and child protection services we have today are developed based on the ideal organisations and the work started in the 1600s. I can mention the Church's Bymition in the 1800s and Blue Cross, which started its work for addicts a hundred years ago, etc. – people who started and simply developed new offers because they cared. It has a self-esteem, and that is what the Christian People's Party is dedicated to caring for. It is not a crusade against commercial operators. In the area of child protection, I can mention as an example that commercial people have taken part of the challenges that the public does not have, and therefore we still need them, and we will continue to do so. In the health sector, we have many commercial actors today that will still be needed. But they're commercial players precisely because they want to act in a market, and then they're going to be allowed to be in that market, they're going to be allowed to compete in that market under the conditions that it's natural for private, commercial players to act in. Many of them are larger companies, chains and groups that have different assumptions to deal with the short-term nature of the tender mechanisms used today. That is why the survivors of today’s regime and the ideals of the doll are largely the survivors. The Christian People's Party is committed to taking care of the ideal actors, precisely because the idealism and the values they stand for have a self-value in the welfare society. We will fight for that, and that is also the basis for the proposal we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4239	Laila Davøy challenged the government parties in the matter, and it made me take the floor again in this debate. The Council of State has made it clear that she and the government will follow up the common comments on which the Christian People's Party and the government parties agree in this matter. It's very important, and it's repeated here in the pulpit. This also includes the fact that there is a real need to establish a more long-term and predictable framework for non-profit institutions. The centre party shares this impatience, along with the rest of the majority who are behind these remarks in the case. We're concerned that this is being followed up by the government. I think this has been a good debate. We have come up with clear lines of division in this matter, and I look forward to the fact that we will both be able to follow up on the matter, and that we will be able to debate further lines of division in other matters where I am sure that the government parties and the Christian People's Party will have a common position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4250	The representative Bent Höie has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4253	I refer to the fact that Per Olaf Lundtigen's representative stressed that regional health companies are not living their own lives, but are most strongly governed by the Council of State. So to the representative Terje Aasland: I would like to say that my post was a good description of what is red-green tendering policy, because it is therefore a red-green government council that has run these health companies over the last five years, and that, according to the representative Lundtigen's description, has good governance in the way they operate. But this is not the right-wing tendering policy. It is not the case that the right in this case has raised the issue of cancelling and not using tenders. But it is possible to use tenders with your head and thus almost have a plan for what you want as a result. When the Right sat in government the last time, they did. It required very strong political governance, not least with health businesses, because the system wants the policy that the red-green government is now pursuing. That is why the system that governs this country is not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4262	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4265	Now Olemic Thommessen's tiger was answered, I'm almost told, against the Christian People's Party. But it's actually not that it's the Christian People's Party that sits with the government of this country, even though it almost sounded like this on Olemic Thommes' posts. I have no interest – no interest – in taking any responsibility for how the red-green government conducts its tender hysteria or provides for who wins or loses tenders, and deletes a differentiated offer. I can assure the representative Thommes that the Christian People's Party had wanted a completely different direction, even in relation to smaller, private offers, so that we just secured a whole and a differentiated offer that met the needs of many different groups. And then to Lundtigen: I think the representative Lundtigen must take a look at the regional health companies. I strongly recommend a study trip to Oslo Hospital. Listen to what they say about the tender documents they have been presented and on which they have lost. It doesn't look like anything. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4274	I am pleased to hear that the Christian People's Party also seems to be a place for the private actors in the future. But then I wonder when I read this setting, how with a embarrassingly precise stringency to ensure that those actors are kept outside. They are excluded from the changes in the tendering system that are therefore desired. And then I think, have you actually taken over what volume -- will there be money again, after you've first filled the state, because we know the order of this government? First, you have to fill the state – they are still being built up – and then you have to give priority to the ideal ownership. What place is it back then? I wonder if the budgets we have to stick to are actually going to give some special room back. When I go out so hard against the Christian People's Party, it's because I feel that the Christian People's Party gives some kind of legitimacy to that during the government and the red-green parties want to run. It's being noticed. I think it's a race that's a very dangerous experiment, because it's really going to mean that diversity is going to disappear over time. After all, we still have at least three years left with this government, and then it's okay that the representative Syversen will not take responsibility for what he calls 'offer hysteria'. I fully agree with that description. But the representative Syversen and the rest of the Christian People's Party are thus helping to legitimize a new revolution of the screw, because that's what's going to be the consequence of what the Syversen will get from this government, which I'm going to guarantee he gets. So for tenders and the representative Lundtigen: We are certainly in charge of tenders, I am up to date with that. But you don't have to be more Catholic than the pope. Tenders are a way of gaining knowledge and understanding, and then you have to build a tendering system that can also work. It's completely possible to do that. Today's tendering system has given us experience showing that there are a lot of weaknesses in this, and it is clear that something can be done about it. It's just a shame that it's going to be half -- or maybe a little bit more than that -- of those we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4285	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1762]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4301	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1763]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4317	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1765]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4325	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4333	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Advancement Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, by Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 7, by Erling Sande, on behalf of the Energy and Environment Committee Proposals Nos. 1–6 is included on page 76 of the vote, while proposal No. 7 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Freedom is restored as an area of performance within the Ministry of the Environment’s budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4368	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive report which assesses the natural and socio-economic consequences of the forest protection processes carried out and planned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4383	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget on wreckage policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e4398	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess, in the context of the 2012 State budget, whether Petoro should be financed directly from the cash flow from the petroleum activity on Norwegian continental shelf rather than through annual State budget appropriations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to arrange for the purchase of supervision services from other than the State.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan to ensure the stepping up of efforts to clean up pollution in fjords, watercourses and ports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e6002	We're going to the 13th Framework Council. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Energy and Environment Committee. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposal to amend the proposal for a decision under Frame 13, points IV and VI:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e6052	When proposal No 7, adopted by the Committee, the IV and VI shall lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8533	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8546	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8560	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8664	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8677	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. It is assumed that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8691	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e8995	There is a vote on the proposal made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 10 December 2010: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to review the rules on the public meeting of the State for the purpose of increasing public awareness.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9016	There is a vote on the proposal made by the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 10 December 2010: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the municipal law in order to ensure that the meetings of the control committee are, as a general rule, held for open doors.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9037	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward, No. 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9245	The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 71 is first worded. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9260	The second and third sentence of Section 106 of the third paragraph of the suspension shall be replaced by the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9282	So it goes over the rest of I and over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9292	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9302	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9620	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9630	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9922	An alternative is first added between section 8–51 of the adjustment and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 Paragraphs 8 to 51 shall be replaced by the following: § 8 to 51 Member between 62 and 70: To a member between 62 and 70 years old, sickness benefits are provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. [[People's Security Act]] Sickness benefits are provided to a member between 62 and 67 years of age regardless of whether an old-age pension has been taken out. To a member between 67 and 70 years of age who has taken out an old-age pension, sickness benefits are provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter if the income base exceeds twice the basic amount. Sickness benefit from social security is provided for up to 60 sick pay days to a member aged 67 to 70 who has taken out an old age pension.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9946	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 11-13 of the suspension shall be substituted for the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security, the third paragraph of Section 11-13 shall be replaced by the following: benefits may also be granted for a period of up to one year to members who have not acquired a new entitlement to sickness benefits under Chapter 8 and who: [[People's Security Act]] (a) have previously received redundancy benefits and who, within six months, become unemployed as a result of another illness, even if the reduction in working capacity is assumed to be temporary; (b) have previously received redundancy benefits and who, within one year, become unemployed as a result of the same illness, even if the reduction in working capacity is assumed to be temporary; or (c) have previously received sickness benefits under Chapter 8 (i) a total of 248, 250 or 260 sick pay days in the last three years; [[§ 8-12]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9973	The third and fourth sentence and the fourth paragraph of Section 8–12 of Section 4–17 of Section 8–3 of the first paragraph of Section 4. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9988	The remainder of the position under I and II, III and IV shall be added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e9998	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10008	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10414	It is first voted over the settings in Section 5 paragraph. 3, § 28 nr. Paragraphs 1 and 29 of the third paragraph 1st paragraph, II § 7 nr. 2 and IV. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10429	The third and fourth paragraphs of Section 11-4 and the second and third paragraphs of Section 12-4 are added. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10443	It shall be counted against the other paragraphs of I, II and III and above V, VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10454	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10464	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e10472	In the course of the debate, a proposal has been put forward, No. 1, by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCroner642Peterleumsupervisory1Operating expenditure, may be carried over, increased by 14 000 000from NOK 172 100000 to NOK 186 100000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12550	In the course of the debate, 30 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, by Svein Flätten on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 7-25, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 26-29, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 30, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 30. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that public procurement down to NOK 100000 is made public by electronic means.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12583	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26–29, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce ‘sunset legislation’, both nationally and municipally, so that certain rules and regulations have a limited duration and disappear if they are not actively re-adopted after a given number of years’.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a simplified share law for small enterprises.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government is asked to consider removing the audit obligation for small enterprises.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that public purchasers take into account whether firms have apprentices when deciding who is to be offered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12615	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–25, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the removal of the form for the calculation of the correction income and its associated rules’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the Storting with an assessment of event-related reporting in the field of payroll for tax, tax and employer charges, including the extent to which this involves business simplification.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose that representation be tax deductible up to an appropriate amount around the current level and that no conditions deter the right to deduct.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The amount of the subsidy shall be charged to the Government for a full tax deduction of all quotas relevant to the operation, possibly with an amount ceiling.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to review the rules of the Tax Act with a view to reducing differences in assessment in relation to accounting assessments.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests the collusion of tax assessments of stocks of goods with accounting valuations, however, so as to avoid obsolescence.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government asks the government to remove the diabolical deduction from losses on trade receivables.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government requests the revision of the number of codes in the pay and draw tasks with a view to reducing the number of codes.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government requests the implementation of the payroll project with a view to reducing the scope of forms, so that the tax rate generates payroll and drawdown tasks itself and that this form, as well as the annual tasks of employers’ fees, future tasks for employers’ taxes and tax deductions and the statement of control of the amounts recorded and reported, can be removed’.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider the removal of nutrition item 1 as an alternative to nutrition item 2.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government asks the government to look at simpler and better solutions for page 4 of the business assignment for the allocation of personal income to industries.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change of attitude from the authorities in order to make them more understanding and serviceable to taxpayers.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to limit business reporting to customs by not filling in declarations of goods for each import or export but moving to forward declarations.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a so-called reverse settlement mechanism so that traders do not pay any import VAT.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to organise the statistical reporting forms so that enterprises do not have to go through the list of irrelevant operational issues each time.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to replace quarterly statistical reporting for external trade via IDUN with annual statistical reporting.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government requests that the deadline for the reporting of salary statistics be shifted from the beginning of January to the end of January.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for systems to ensure that enterprises do not provide structural statistics by taking the information from the business task instead.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to incorporate event-driven reporting for the shareholder registry task.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12725	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with its own case, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2011, which sets out concrete plans and objectives for the simplification and reduction of the administrative costs of business, including the proposals put forward by representatives of the Christian People's Party in Document 8:10 S. [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12744	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess changes in the provisions of the Working Environment Act which make it particularly risky for small enterprises to be employed in permanent posts.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for exemption from the inheritance tax in the case of changes in ownership of family holdings which are passed on.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for exemptions from taxes on wealth for working capital.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to help cut the form field by 25 per cent.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider introducing a minimum deduction for self-employed workers as an instrument to reduce time-use for documentation of minor costs.’ The voting boards showed that, by alternative voting between the Committee's vote and the proposals of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, 57 votes were cast for the vote and 48 votes for the proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.41.42]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12779	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12784	Then there were 56 who voted in favour of the vote and 49 who voted in favour of the proposals. The setting is thus concocted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12864	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12874	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12921	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12931	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12939	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposals No. 3-6, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party It is first voted on the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The decision requests the Government to put a full invitation to tender immediately. All on-going procurement processes are frozen until new guidelines are in place.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all non-profit actors are lifted out of the bidding rounds. Agreements with non-profit actors shall be concluded by direct negotiation of contracts instead of by competitive tendering. For the acquisition of health and social services from non-profit institutions serving households, direct negotiations on operating contracts are used, not tendering procedures.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking to ensure that the ideal actors in the health and social sector, due to their special character, role and specific situation, have the same type of ongoing contracts as the major non-profit hospitals do.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the challenges surrounding the pension obligations of non-profit actors are addressed’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12980	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure that the investigation work as a whole asked for in Innst. 294 S [[2009-2010]] The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e12997	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that existing agreements with non-profit, non-profit and non-profit institutions and other private measures by the State are extended until the Storting has dealt with a case on the framework conditions of these institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-13.ana.ud2069e14387	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
