ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e61	The representatives Åse Michaelsen, Tove Linnea Brandvik and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the Workers' Group there is an application for the extension of the granted leave of the representative of Hilde Magnusson Lydvo until 12 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Jette F. Christensen, continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e95	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e98	On behalf of representatives Dagfinn Højbrätten, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I have been delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e117	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e128	Report. St. 7 for 2009–2010 on the supervision of the state's statutory jurisdiction may not be the large kiosk cellar, but is nevertheless an important law, as it lays the framework for the division of labour between the municipality and the state level in Norway. So we're going to have a review of the rules that provide the state with a special basis for overseeing the municipalities. Such a review asked the Stortinget to make the government when, in 2006, a new Chapter 10 A of the Municipal Law was adopted, which introduced a new main provision for supervision. Legally, there was a reasonable remedy, for with such a joint provision relating to proceedings, remedies, sanctions, etc. the practice is more uniform and thus more predictable to the users of the law. An important principle for supervision is that it should be based on the municipal law § 60b, i.e. that supervision is primarily to follow if the municipalities, if any the county municipalities, remain within the framework of Norwegian law, what is also known as law enforcement. Afterwards, I will use the municipality as a common concept for the county and municipality. The idea is that when only the municipalities have a fairly fair understanding of the legal provisions that give them the power to make decisions, they can exercise local judgement and implement local priorities. State supervision is part of the governance of the local government sector, but it must therefore assume that the municipalities are independent legal entities and subject to a nationally elected level. Framework management, not detailed management, must characterise the relationship between state and municipality if we are to say seriously that we have local autonomy. Surveillance arrangements may therefore not be an emergency brake for state or central government to review local judgement. Then you have to stick to the legal framework. Thus, following this sensible legislative amendment in 2006, there were 14 separate laws with their own prudential provisions that the Stortinget would review. This is what is in Meld. St. 7. This applies to the provisions of e.g. Law on Social Services in Labour and Welfare Administration, the Law on Public Health Services, the Law on Introductory Arrangements and Norwegian Training for New Enemyed Immigrants, the Law on Child Protection, the New Law on Crisis Centres, the Law on Ports and Waterways – which has just entered into force – the Act on Fire and Explosion Protection, the Law on Municipal Security, Civil Protection and Civil Protection, the Law on Pollution, the Law on Children's Homes and – to some extent – the Law on Training. The sectoral ministry has reviewed and assessed its specific laws and the work has been coordinated by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. A ROS analysis has been used. For enlargement, there is a risk and vulnerability analysis. Such risk and vulnerability analysis shall identify areas where particular attention should be paid and where it is necessary to put in place measures that may reduce vulnerability and risk. It then remains to be assessed which instruments are most appropriate. The choice of the instrument depends on an assessment of how effectively they promote the purpose of the activity and the total cost of the activity. An important exersis is to imagine what would happen if there had not been supervision in the relevant areas. In addition to the legal basis, which can be said to be a legal desktop practice, it is a point to imagine the overall risk picture of the activities of municipalities in all their daily lives. It is also a matter of whether the supervision, which is by its nature a back-up check, fits in and together with other quality management systems, or other supplementary control measures in this field. In practical terms, the scope and priority of supervision on the part of the county can also be adjusted in relation to whether the municipality itself has developed forms of self-monitoring and back-testing. In the examination of Section 60d of the municipal law in its time, provision was made for the various supervisory authorities to require municipalities to rectify conditions that were contrary to the law, but they chose to refrain from other negative sanctions such as: Forcibly pulverised. The Committee does not wish to amend this principle in the Municipal Act, but there may be circumstances in which more stringent sanctions are still available, and should do so, in the specific laws. It should be noted that the rules on imposition are based on the assumption that the municipalities follow them up and correct the relationship. This is due to the fact that impositions cannot be imposed in cases other than offences, and that the municipalities themselves wish to act in a law-abiding manner and to have their behaviour adjusted in accordance with the law. The review of special statutory homes has resulted in the demarcation of State supervision to areas where supervision is necessary and appropriate and the definition of what is subject to supervision. The Communication sets out in detail the changes in the form of concrete adaptations and changes to specific legislation to improve their harmonisation with the Municipal Law Chapter 10 A. It has been considered that the prudential provisions of the specific laws are distinguished from other provisions on the allocation of powers, tasks and other guidance. Bag provisions of the type ‘Ministry supervises this law’ are avoided. More emphasis will be placed on the specific area of supervision. A reference from the specific laws to the supervisory provisions of the Local Government Act is also an appropriate way of stressing that the general provisions of the Chapter also apply here. It is simply a good piece of legislation. It will also be stated in the specific laws that the municipal law, which provides the State with supervision of the municipalities, should only be directed towards a municipality as a municipality, the so-called municipal authorities. And then it is limited to law enforcement and separate from the areas where the municipality acts as an actor, i.e. for the purposes of administrative law, being a private party. It is also worth noting that, on the part of the Ministry of Local Affairs, a detention unit has been set up to design the supervisory provisions as an obligation rule, but rather as a rule of competence. This means that the county councillors are given greater leeway to focus supervision on the more demanding and risky part of municipal activities. The members of the Committee will certainly supplement the presentation on behalf of their parties. However, as the rapporteur, I would like to stress that the Committee is essentially united in its view on the communication. The Committee confirms the principle of Ot.prp. No 97 for 2005-2006, which led to the general supervisory provision of the municipal law and which follows the same border between the courts over which administrative decisions can be reviewed, and what has to be respected has been decided locally. Under this principle, supervision shall not be competent to override the judgement of the administration, except when there is abuse of authority, i.e.: undue discrimination, outside considerations, manifestly unfair performance or disproportionate interference. In the choice between the two proposed standard formulations in later specific laws, the Committee has agreed to include in the relevant legal provision that supervision is only about law enforcement, precisely in order to provide the best possible clarity for users of the law. In the case of one major issue, the Committee has shared a majority and a minority. During the hearing, KS raised questions about the need for an independent dispute settlement mechanism for disputes that could arise between the State and the municipality. The issue is addressed by state supervision, but is not limited to this at all. The majority do not reject this as an issue that is interesting to pursue, but do not want a decision to that effect today, and indicate that the case can be dealt with by KS vis-à-vis the State in a manner that KS considers appropriate. On behalf of the minority, I would like to elaborate on the issue of an independent dispute resolution body between the state and the municipality. In fact, there is a report on dispute resolution arrangements between the State and the municipality, drawn up in particular. by Professor Smith, who says that Norway has not fulfilled its conventional obligations to establish an independent dispute resolution body. Norway has signed the Council of Europe Convention, which, in Article 11 of the Charter of Local Self-Government, requires States to provide local government with the opportunity to try out any disagreement with the State of a body which is not subject to State instructions and can therefore act independently. On this basis, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right propose that the government give the Stortinget an assessment of whether Norway gives the municipalities the legal status resulting from the commitment we have made by acceding to the Council of Europe Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e177	Does the representative wish to address minority proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e180	Yes, I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e185	The representative Michael Tetzschner then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e188	The municipalities may be the most important welfare producers we have. It is the municipalities that make sure that the children can go to kindergarten and that the children get a proper schooling. It's the municipality you live in, which is responsible for getting a doctor's appointment, and there's a lot of people who depend on home help and hospitalization when they get old. All these are areas that are also in the interests of the nation; these are tasks that are carriers in the welfare state. Among other things, this is an important reason for the strengthening of the local economy that the red-green government has contributed to in recent years. It is also the case that many legal provisions are linked to both the content, design and scope of these key services for which municipalities are responsible, in order to ensure that all citizens have access to equivalent services. It is still so that the country is also built by law. We have great confidence in both our municipalities and county municipalities here in the country, but at the same time we know that there may be misunderstandings. There may be errors in priorities in difficult situations, and there may be a lack of competence to ensure that the services provided by each municipality do not comply with the standard that national authorities believe they should. In that space, the state oversight of the activities of municipalities plays an important role. It provides for the possibility of correcting and guiding, and, where necessary, imposing remedial measures so as to give the municipality's citizens the level of service they should have. However, it is important to stress that the opinions and opinions of different national professional authorities cannot entirely override the long experience and competence of the municipality to balance priorities between different social interests and to find cross-sectoral solutions. That's exactly why we from the state team are going to leave to the municipalities to solve these problems. Then we also have to be able to live with the fact that different municipalities do these problems in a slightly different way, based on their assumptions and within the space provided by the national interests. According to NOU 2004:17, State supervision of the municipal sector, there are four considerations and values that should be included in an overall assessment of the need for State supervision. There is a need for legal certainty for individuals. There is a need for sustainable development and social security. This is the consideration of the Municipal Government, and not least the consideration of efficient public resource use. The state and the municipalities have a common interest in being on the same team in providing good services to all citizens in this country. In addition to ensuring that municipalities meet the legal requirements, supervision must be able to provide a basis for learning and quality development. It should also be able to make an important contribution to the ability of municipalities to operate their own controls. We are well aware, and often hear, that many municipalities believe that the scope of supervision is large, that the way it is done is not optimal, and that the effect of supervision is limited. In this context, the majority of the Committee refers to Innst. O. No 19 for 2006-2007, in which the Municipal and Administrative Committee asked the Government to review the supervisory system in general vis-à-vis the municipal sector and to assess the areas in which supervision is necessary and appropriate. The majority in the Committee are pleased that this has now led to a clean-up, so that the specific laws have or will have a more harmonised and similar design. It is clear that State supervision is to be law enforcement in accordance with the procedural rules of the Local Government Act Chapter 10 A. The mere verification of the legality of the activities of local authorities by State supervision is an expression of the framework management principle. It is important that the state does not unnecessarily enter and restrict the room of local discretion and local assessments provided by the legislator. It is the local elected representatives who have the authority and responsibility for the design of the quality of the services to be provided by the population within the framework. Then there is a basis for pointing out that the county is perhaps the most central part of the state administration in overseeing the municipalities. The villagers around the country know the municipalities in their county well. In the view of the majority, the county should therefore also be given a great deal of freedom to decide for itself when and where it is important to carry out supervision. It may be that municipalities that have a good control committee that works may need a slightly different follow-up from municipalities where there is a lack of resources and competence to operate self-control. In the further work on the preparation of changes in the special homes, it will be important for the local authority to express its views and that it should be discussed. As I said, the municipality is the main welfare producer we have, and the sector's experience and competence in this area must be taken seriously. To ensure, inter alia: this is the basis for repointing the benefits of an overall proposition with changes to the special purpose homes in the further processing. On the part of the majority, we welcome further efforts to ensure an even better legal basis for the proper supervision of the important work of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e222	Now this is a matter that there is a relatively wide deal about at most points, but not at all. Supervision and control are open important, and that's something that everyone's agreed on. As the Progress Party sees it, this message is a good starting point and provides a better basis for an efficient and good use of resources. At least that's what we hope this big message will end up in. In Norway, we have a lot of high quality government. We have good legal certainty. We have some corruption. We have some camaraderie, and we also have some indiscriminate discrimination around the municipalities. But when I say there's little of these three things going on, it's not that they don't exist at all. That is why it is of course important that we keep good control of it, that it is at a low level, and that we guarantee legal certainty around the country. At the same time, it is important that we do not spend too much resources on supervision and control and public bureaucracy. We don't have to become a country of controllers. We must also be observant of the growth we have had in state bureaucracy and also the beginning of an emerging Dutch disease in Norway. This, of course, is an important balance between both good control and good supervision, while keeping red tape down to the lowest possible level. The party of progress has also, in a note, referred to some areas where State supervision is more important than in other areas. One of the areas we've been pointing at is child protection. It's a region where we can't afford to fail. The consequences of failure in child protection matters are dramatic. Therefore, it is important that we have good oversight and control of that sector. So this is where control and supervision are particularly important. We also have a challenge. Norway is a small country. We're under 5 million inhabitants. So it's less than half of the population living in the city of Great London. Despite being a small country, we have three levels of administration. We have the state, 19 municipalities and 430 municipalities. Of course, it creates a challenge with regard to local administration and, of course, with regard to supervision. These 430 municipalities have very different sizes. Oslo is the largest, with 586,000 inhabitants. Utsira is the smallest. After the last numbers I saw, there are 218 inhabitants in Utsira. It is clear that then there are different presidencies for Oslo on one side and Utzira on the other. The municipalities that are large, but less than Oslo, and the municipalities that are small, even though they are slightly larger than the Utsira, are very different when it comes to the challenges you face. The control challenges are going to be very different. A large municipality can provide self-control, which a small municipality cannot. In many small municipalities, there is also a lack of competence in many areas. If there is a lack of legal competence, simple interpretations of the law can create challenges in terms of legal security, in cases of abuse or lack of competence. There is no doubt that the challenges would be easier when it comes to supervision and control and legal certainty, if we had, for example, had. approx. 100 municipalities in Norway, and everyone had a size of about 10,000 and up. Then we could use less bureaucracy, and we could thus have more resources available, which could go to the provision of services of basic welfare services. Now this is not a debate on municipal structure. I have for the most part realised that with a local government minister from the Central Party and with many well-paid spokesmen around the 430 municipalities, including the Central Party, there is little hope that something dramatic and substantial will happen with the municipal structure in the next few years. As the previous two speakers have pointed out, there is broad agreement in most areas of this case, and there is a joint committee that accounts for most of the comments. We also have some good comments with our friends from the Right and the Christian People's Party, plus a minority proposal from these three parties, which Michael Tetzschner, spokesperson for the cause, has been on, and I don't want to spend any more time on it. So we're assuming that this is a step in the right direction, and that this message will facilitate a more effective, more prudent and more effective supervisory activity in the future. It is important, both in order to ensure legal certainty and to limit the growth of bureaucracy, so that increased transfers to municipalities can be used for better and more welfare services for the inhabitants of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e245	After the last article, from the representative of the Progress Party, Hagesetter, one could get the impression that it was because of the central party rapporteurs around the country that there was no community merger. But I must honestly admit that I have neither heard Terje Søviknes from Us propose a merger with Bergen nor have I heard the rapporteur in Austevoll, who is also from the Progress Party, propose a merger with Us or Sund. So I don't know if this is a post that's kind of about a political party, or whether it's about the contrary that people are concerned about finding good solutions for their citizens, and that local democracy is important. Now it has to be said that I am also a member of a community merger, but I am also a member of the local team. Let's move away from that and over to the point where it's about the review that the department has now done in the light of the job that Stortinget did in connection with the odelsting treatment of the law of the municipal law. The last point in the introductory part of the setting summarises well where the country is located, namely: ‘The Departments of Sector have concluded, in the light of a risk and vulnerability analysis, that all existing supervisory homes are needed and that they should therefore be maintained.’ [[...]] At the same time, it is said that the Storing Communication has established that there has been more and more state supervision of the municipalities. That's some of the dilemma we're facing. On the one hand, we have a very clear desire for municipalities to have great freedom to find out how to carry out their tasks towards their citizens. We have, on the part of our government, constantly contributed to it by strengthening the economy and by having less and less designation of grants. On the other hand, it is clear that we want strong State supervision in those areas where we think it is important. The rapporteur drew this out in a good way. It is about the legal certainty of individuals on the one hand and, on the other hand, what is of great social importance. The representative of the Progress Party was in his speech – and it is extremely important – that we should not be a country of inspectors. On the other hand, he framed all the areas where the Progress Party believes it is extremely important to exercise strong State supervision. Of course, one of the problems and challenges in this is that today's supervisory regime is in a way the sum of what all the government parties plus the Progress Party might seem to be big, important, national societal tasks. There we are today. We want to maximise the local level, because it is important that decisions are anchored there. At the same time, all parties have areas where it is believed that there is a need for strong state supervision to safeguard the interests of society. Then we lie there today in relation to state supervision, and say we're satisfied with it. I would just like to comment on the fact that there has been a proposal, which is an entirely old proposal, from the opposition. The French People's Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are united on the proposal where they want the government to communicate to the Stortinget how it assesses the justice of what goes on local self-government and what is about a dispute resolution. That is what the government believes has been done properly, in different contexts, and the reports on its public access. Then we believe from the government parties that it makes sense that the discussion and dialogue on this will take place between the Ministry of Local Affairs on behalf of the government on the one hand and the KS on the other. And then I'd like to say, in the end, it's the county councilmen's job to make an assessment, take a balance, of what kind of supervision you're going to have with the different municipalities, and what area is important. It is based on normal risk assessments of where it is most important that things work and where things are most likely to go wrong – usually based on past supervision of municipalities. At that time, it is extremely important, as was also noted by some of the organisations at the hearings, that where there are reports that there are systemic failures in the municipality's own work towards individuals, it is important that the county has oversight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e267	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and a good account of what the matter is about. «The Heads of State more than before», we could read in the Newspaper on 26 April. The basis is a report from the Directorate for Administration and ICT. The Minister of Local Affairs said: ‘The communities feel detailed in some areas and feel that there is more and more time for reporting and bureaucracy.’ According to the Divi report, government governance has become stronger and stronger in the last ten years. This applies particularly to education and health, where target and performance management has established itself as a dominant governance principle in the country. I agree with the municipal minister who says that if there is too much detail management, there can easily be a rail democracy in the municipalities. Then there will be no room for local priorities. It is important that we, who govern nationally, have confidence in our municipal politicians, in the level of municipal administration – they sit closer to the people where they live, and know better where the shoe prints. In the same article, the Minister of Local Affairs stated that national politicians should rely more on local democracy to assess what is best for the citizens and that it is necessary to discuss how the interaction between the State and the municipality should work in practice. It is relevant for the matter we are discussing today, but also on a much wider level. For example, there was an important point when an attempt was made to achieve regional reform, and also when an attempt was made to bring about an interaction reform. Unfortunately, I must say that the will to transfer power to our local and regional peoples is expressed more strongly in words than through action by this government. Both of these cases are examples of this. In the joint comments of the opposition on this matter, we say, among other things. the review of special statutory schemes; ‘suggests that the departments have little confidence in the local authorities’ ability or willingness to comply with the law and regulations of their own initiative, even though the municipalities have a long experience of balancing social interests against each other and finding cross-sectoral solutions. Nor has it been assumed that the municipalities have an overall objective of providing good services to the inhabitants." And then we're like, ‘The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs does not seem to have balanced the public sector interests on an independent basis, nor does it contribute to facilitating the overall burden on municipalities. At no point have municipal compliance been assessed as high enough, or the benefits of state supervision as low in relation to the benefits, so that state supervision is waived. These members welcome the subsequent initiative to simplify or abolish statutory tasks for which there is no longer a need.» If the Minister of the Municipal Council is correctly quoted in the Newspaper, she will now look into the power relationship between the State and the municipalities and take the initiative in taking its own big message on the matter. I hope that these elements too can be and become part of this message. Apart from that, it has been said that there is broad political consensus in the position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee on the review of special statutory homes for the state supervision of municipalities. The rapporteur of the case has set out the opposition's views on the dispute resolution body. I'm joining this. Finally, I refer to the proposal on which we agree, where we are asking the government to communicate to the Stortinge how it assesses the legal position of the municipality on the basis of Article 11 of the Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e300	I am happy to present the Report. St. 7 for Stortinget. I am also very pleased with what I am hearing about a co-ordinated magnification of the most important and important points in the message. This is, as has also been said here, a comprehensive review of the statutes of state supervision of the municipalities. It has been a great and demanding work, and many departments have been involved with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which has coordinated the message. The background for both the message and the special law review is that we have had a fragmentary and inconsistent regulatory framework in the area of supervision. There have been different uses of the supervisory framework. There has been a lack of coordination of the supervision of municipalities, which has, of course, also experienced supervision as fragmentary. This was done in NOU 2004:17, State supervision of the municipal sector. So the whole purpose of this message is to get a clean-up to get an overview, context and soundness in the field of supervision. The legalisation of Chapter 10(A) of the Municipality of Elves three years ago was the first step in the clearing work. There were rules on how the county council's supervision of the municipalities should be carried out. And a general coordination authority in Section 60e is an important tool for coordinating all state supervisory activities towards municipalities. The peer review has been our next step in the process. I mean, the message shows that we've got a lot of stuff. We have been cleared in the relationship between the general rules of Chapter 10(A) of the municipality and the supervisory homes of the individual special laws. We have achieved better harmonisation in the design of supervisory housing in the specific laws. All the houses of custody are, or will be, separate as separate rules of law. Each home shall clearly identify the statutory obligations to be overseen and that the supervision of the municipalities is a regulatory body and thus a clear separation from the guide bit. It shall also be provided that supervision is to be carried out in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Municipality of Elva Chapter 10 A. Risk and vulnerability analysis and dietary and benefit analysis have been carried out for all existing supervisors in the specific laws. But perhaps even more important: the message is based on the fact that no new areas should be monitored in the future without having been assessed as necessary and as a matter of priority through a thorough risk and vulnerability analysis and dietary and benefit analysis. I also believe that the harmonisation of the special laws of the general rules of the municipality of Elves helps to clarify the county's important role of coordination. I really hope that this will provide a better overview for local authorities and supervisory authorities, and there have been important steps to clear up the area of supervision. In December 2009, a report was presented by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs with 85 recommendations for strengthening self-control in the municipalities. I think it is important in the future that we have a better link between the state supervision and the municipal own control. Where there is good self-control, there should be less need for State supervision. And here again comes the county's coordination responsibility after the municipality. The department is now working to look at how we best follow up on that report. Then, state supervision of municipalities raises important questions about the relationship between national governance and local self-government. I am busy that local authorities should have local freedom of action. I am busy trusting both national administrations and residents of the municipalities and the job they do as producers of key welfare services. They do a comprehensive, broad work – well 70 pst. welfare services are provided in municipalities. Most people are probably content with the job being done. There is a wide range of tasks, there should be legal certainty for everyone, and I know that the municipalities are very concerned about providing the best possible services themselves. There has been an increase in the extent of the state supervision of municipalities in recent years. A survey carried out by the Directorate of Management and ICT on behalf of the Ministry shows that government has increased. This needs to be discussed in a broader context. That's why I've been notifying a big deal next year about this issue - how to develop the relationship between the state and the municipality in the best possible way, for the benefit of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e324	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e327	Now it is said by the municipal minister that there is different municipal self-control in the different municipalities, and therefore there is also a different need for supervision. It is quite obvious, because we have different sizes of municipalities, which I was in my post – Oslo has 586,000 inhabitants, Utzira 218 inhabitants, Modal 360 inhabitants. It goes without saying that the small municipalities have quite different challenges than the large municipalities have. My question is whether the municipal minister could take a reflection on this, how this also results in differences in the supervision of the small municipalities versus the large municipalities. How does one set up supervision to increase the height of different sizes of municipalities, and that many of the small municipalities have very poor competences, both within law and in many other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e332	There is no doubt that in many other areas there are different needs in different municipalities. It's not just about the size of the municipality, because I think in many smaller municipalities it's much more transparent for a countyman – he can have reasonable control over what's going on – than there are in many larger organisations, which also have a much broader bureaucracy and perhaps a more complex organisation to oversee. That being said, I know that statesmen work differently against different municipalities, both in terms of guidance and in terms of supervision. That's just how we want it to be. The county council shall use the coordination role of being both a good counsellor and to provide good supervision on the basis of the local circumstances as liabilities, whether it is a small municipality such as Utzira or a large municipality of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e337	There are many friends of municipal autonomy here today, and that's fine. The problem is not days like this, but every day, in which the state sector interests paint a little broken by the ideal needs they have – I want the Council of State to be very happy to coordinate and regulate the public sector interests. Then there is often disagreement, and the proposal we have put forward is that we look at the more formal situation in relation to the Council of Europe Convention, whether we have fulfilled what we have signed up to, namely to equip ourselves with a re-medium for an independent dispute resolution between the State and the municipality. But in my impatience, I could imagine asking the Council of State if this had not been a good idea anyway, no matter what the formal review had to give. Even if the government is dry, and we may have fulfilled this – we will get back to it – we are free to implement it if we find it appropriate. So my question is, isn't the Council of State finding this a very appropriate way of resolving conflicts between the state and the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e342	I point out that KS has been provided with alternative dispute resolution arrangements between the State and the municipality. But so far we haven't had a discussion with KS about this, it's not taken up in the formal forums we have. If one is to introduce a new alternative dispute resolution mechanism in Norway, e.g. with independent administrative courts, there is a fundamental change in the relationship between the State and the municipality. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to have a thorough distribution, I think, both of a state- and administrative nature. We haven't had that per day. I have therefore not taken a final position as to whether this could be a good arrangement. I have also not seen it as a matter of time to get it going, so far. If KS chooses to take this up through the consultation system – which may be the natural place to discuss this more broadly – then I will make an assessment of it. I have not seen it as a priority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e347	I don't think we should make it harder than that. It is possible to imagine very simple instances, without having to go towards an administrative court. On that basis, it would have been very interesting to hear the personal opinion of the Council of State, if it had not been an advantage to have an instance outside central government — often located in Oslo — to settle such disputes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e352	A little humorous, I have to say that I have never thought that the central state apparatus should be moved out of Oslo, I think it is a great place to have both a government apparatus and a staging. I believe that the decisions taken here in the various sectors and departments will be taken on the basis of good judgement. But – as also the representative Tetzschner knows – it becomes so that its closer we come to our own area, the more busy we are in governing that particular area. So I think the most important thing we can do in the future is try to get even more coordination and health into the relationship between the state and the municipality, so that the sector interests don't become as dominant as they have grown up to be for many years. This will also be discussed with the Stortinge in the coming years. I'm very open to getting a recording when it comes to this topic in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e357	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e360	Thank you to the President-in-Office and to the Minister for their statement on the matter. Local authorities implement policies adopted by the government. The municipalities have seen the main engine in the coup d'état. The compliance of municipalities with the specific laws is regulated by state supervision. Supervision is a good instrument, used to a moderate extent. On the other hand, it does not work well if the municipalities are bombarded by supervision at different levels. There is a balance between local self-government and state supervision. Supervision shall ensure that all residents of the country are provided with adequate services and that the law is followed up equally. The former municipal committee has asked the government to review the supervisory regime vis-à-vis the municipal sector and assess the area in which supervision is necessary and appropriate. This is the background to the current review and has contributed to a significant clean-up work. The members of the Municipal and Administrative Committee of the Labour Party have great confidence that, through their long experience of balancing different sectoral interests against each other, municipalities can find good solutions across the different sectors. The aim of Norwegian municipalities is to provide good services to their inhabitants. This is a goal that all Norwegian municipalities work for. In its legislative design, the Ministry has made State supervision more targeted and effective, thus providing greater clarity and predictability for municipalities. It is a sensible and necessary adjustment. Furthermore, the Ministry has stated that special laws should show restraint in the design of supervisory provisions as mandatory rules to be followed and, instead, has designed the rules as rules of competence that can be followed. This concludes the whole committee. I have the belief that special law enforcement will be used when necessary, and that the county council will use reasonable discretion to manage supervision where it is needed. I also believe that Norwegian municipalities are complying with Norwegian law, and are doing their utmost, so that their own citizens can get the best possible services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e373	It was now the representative Heikki Holmås who got me to take the word again, as he was interested that he had also not registered that the Progress Party was in charge of a municipal merger. What I think is wrong, our people are occupied with this with municipal convergence, occupied by larger municipal units. But I think it's good to see in my eye that if it's not done from a central point of view, a local council can't be consulted in Norway. Local planning must be facilitated, both from government and from large scale, in order to achieve this to a certain extent. Such funding scheme – the income system – is today, municipalities will lose weight in merging. In particular, municipalities with less than 3,200 inhabitants will lose significant amounts of money to merge. It's just the municipalities that have the most access to a community merger, which loses the most. That's why you have to look at this; you have to give carrots, you have to put on leads, and you have to have economic incentives in many areas that make you look good by merging. I also want to add that there are transitional arrangements that make it take a few years before this turns out, but in any case, one of us is losing weight today. The progress team is also working on a matter. We're trying to deal with this issue in full width – a matter that we're going to deal with on an ongoing basis, and which we're going to consider promoting at a later stage. Elles also said to the representative Holmås that when it comes to supervision, on the one hand it was important to point out what I had said about it being important, and at the same time it was important to keep democracy down. That was also my point; it is an important limitation by having a good oversight of the municipalities of the country on the one hand, while at the same time taking care that bureaucracy does not become too large, and that one does not make it too complicated to produce welfare services in the municipalities. Therefore, it is ideal for the Progress Party to provide a new funding system to provide government-driven funding for basic welfare services in municipalities. This means that the individual citizen is guaranteed these services, regardless of whether a cage in a rich municipality or a cage in a poor municipality. We believe that if one had got such a funding system in place, it would have reduced the number of supervisory challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e384	It is not possible not to keep an post and answer Gjermund Hagesetter when he takes up the two things he does in his post. Firstly, the reason I took up the lack of zeal of the party rapporteurs after the merger was that Gjermund Hagesetter himself said that it was the central party rapporteurs who were primarily concerned with keeping their own position and their own salary. But I still have the pleasure of seeing a progress party rapporteur who is at the forefront of municipal unification, whether it is Os or it is Austevoll in Gjermund Hagesetter's own state. On the other hand, I have seen the SV rapporteur in Skjerstad, who was at the head of the municipal merger with the municipality of Bodø and carried it out – a successful municipal merger. I have also seen the rapporteur from the Council of State party in another former municipality of Hordaland, namely the municipality of Ølen, at the head of a successful municipal merger with the municipality of Vindafjord. So if the Progress Party is so concerned with the merger of municipalities, they might have made sure that their own rapporteur corps were at the forefront of this all around the country. The second is the clockwork of the Progress Party on price financing. If there is one thing that would lead to more supervision, it is the cofinancing of all schools and the entire care of the elderly, and at the same time it would be implemented in parallel with the extensive privatisation of the two services. We are precisely in favour of democracy as an alternative to supervision. The fact that there are local people elected – what to say – who are at the forefront of designing the welfare services of citizens in the care of the elderly and in schools around the country, means that critical people who stand up and fight for their own school and their own elderly care in their own municipality, and that they can go to local politicians who will make sure that this offer is good. If you had received the arrangement of the Advance Party where private operators were going to do this, and it was known that for every penny in extra dividends that this company would receive, they would earn this money by cutting the offer to the elderly, it would have led to an enormous need for increased supervision from the state team to ensure that people around these privatized hospitals and privatized the schools had received the offer they had requested. So the arrangement of the Progress Party is the recipe for greater injustice and more state bureaucracy. Our system is a scheme for democracy and democracy. I have the most sense of the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e398	Gærmund Hageseter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e401	Now I should have had more than one minute to explain to Heikki Holmås what the Progress Party stands for in different areas. I see that he has misunderstood, but I can recommend him to go to Frp.no and read what we mean in different areas. When it comes to the piece price, as he calls it, which I like to call needs-driven government funding for basic welfare services, there is something that also creates the freedom of choice for the individual citizen. And freedom of choice and competition stimulate the best in us and make us content to provide good services to get paid. This would have meant greater equality and better welfare services. When it comes to the municipal merger, this is something that is discussed diligently both at the county annual meeting and at the national meeting of the Progress Party, but it is obvious that if one is to get speed on this, including in progressive party-driven municipalities, there must be a tendency to merge, not lose, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e410	The debate that is now taking place is an extremely important debate. It's about how we're going to develop our welfare society in the future, it's about what governance system we're going to have, it's about local freedom to design the services, whether we're going to have 'greater equality', as the representative Hagesets says, or whether we're going to have equivalency and the possibility for equivalent services to design locally. The representative Hagesetter himself said in earlier reply that there is a great difference between municipalities – some large and some small, some central and some more rural, with scattered busses. It's different from geography, there's different challenges for business, there's different population attitudes, etc. We will also be able to discuss this in the days that come — at least the last bit — but it is important that we distinguish between what should be equal and what should be equivalent. There are two essential words in the debate in the future. Enhanced justice and more privatisation will develop more bureaucracy, will develop more need for supervision, will be a step in a different direction from that of the Norwegian welfare society, with democracy, self-government and the ability to have room for inequality, yet equivalency – and defined locally. When it comes to municipal convergence, it is uncertain whether it will contribute to the equivalency – if anything greater. But at least one thing is certain – four out of five of the municipal conspiracies that have been done have had the Senterpartiet that perpetuates. The one municipal conspiracy that is now being worked on, at least that has come to me, there are two central party leaders in the Trondelag. So the challenge that the representative Heikki Holmås addresses may be right. The progress game has itself been one game of multiple vocabularies. We don't hear that much from that edge. One thing is to go on their home page and read what they think there, something else is to look at what is done in practice when one gets power and influence to really influence the policy where one is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e429	The representative Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e432	In the Dream World of the Advance Party, all those who are in need of health care should run around and choose between different offers. Now, as you know – it has also been mentioned in the debate – about 80 pst. of those in need of nursing homes, demented. In the dream world of the Progress Party, all these demented sick homes shall run around and orient themselves in a free market in which the State shall spit in money. If the Advancement Party does not realize that a pile of people will receive a worse offer, the Advancement Party has not understood how the world works. The party of progress was in one major reform at the time they were involved and had influence and power, namely the private school reform. An extensive privatisation was opened up, and what happened? Yes, exactly what we in SV warned against. John Bauer-gymnases built up, got big and pulled out money that we hadn't been able to get in if we hadn't had a strong state supervision. There will be more supervisory needs and more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e439	It was the representative Holmås who made me take the floor. His installation reflects that the family in his society no longer has any meaning. In the society of the Progress Party, the family is of great importance. If you are not able to take care of yourself, you should nevertheless be responsible for finding a place of care. Of course, the policy of the Progress Party will be such that freedom of choice is granted. If, despite illness, you have the capacity to make choices, you can make the choice yourself, or the family can make the choice in consultation with or on behalf of it. That's where the Progress Party clearly differs from SV – we think where you can give freedom of choice, you should have the opportunity to do so. If situations arise that Holmås describes, where you do not have the capacity to make your own choices, however, you are not sent by farms on your own to go from institution to institution and inform yourself about what the market is giving. Then the municipal bureaucracy will be able to help and ensure that you have a place of care, as you do today. It is a service provided by the municipalities already today, but in many municipalities you do not get the choice that the Progress Party wants to grant. I don't think one should make this a debate where the family should no longer be able to mean anything, or where we say that it should only be either – or. In our society, there's room for both and. The important thing here is that freedom of choice is at the bottom. For those who are unable to make the choices themselves, and who have no family to make the choices separately, municipal bureaucracy will step in, as it is today. I don't see the problem. There's a theoretical reality the representative Holmås is going up here, and it really just disguises the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e466	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e475	The representative proposal asks the government to raise a case for the Stortingen on INON. INNON is a transfiguration that is used for non-interventional natural areas. The proposers would like the government to ‘both discuss and promote proposals for conclusions relating, inter alia, to how INON should be defined in Norway, based on Norwegian nature and cultural history, the technical measures to define INON, the categories INNON should have, the weight INNON should have with any categories in relation to other societal considerations and the way in which management should assign INNON relevance and weight in determining individual cases’. It's obvious that there's a lot of commitment around the country about this case. It also seemed that there are many ambiguities and misunderstandings relating to the INNON approach – what it is, what role it should play in land management, etc. I will therefore, in fact, give tribute to the proposers, who take this up. I think there is a need for a proper review, discussion and political anchoring in the Storting when it comes to INNON. In a letter to the Committee of 15 March, as a comment on the proposal, the Minister for the Environment writes that he will come back to the Stortinge with a case on non-interventional natural areas. Therefore, and with reference to this, the plurality – the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre – proposes that the proposal we are considering be annexed to the Minutes, and we look forward to a matter soon on non-interventional natural areas. This will allow us to deal with this issue soon, where we get a case from the government, so that we have a good basis for discussions and decisions. There should therefore be no reason for a wide-ranging debate on INON now. That's what we're gonna get back to. I don't see any disagreement about that either, although the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party find to include the proposal for a representative in the vote. Even though these three parties are hoping for this proposal in the configuration, I still notice a slightly different approach from these three parties. The right hand side and the progress side are clear that a review of the case complex ‘shall result in the deactivation of the concept of ‘non-intervention nature area’ as a criterion of land management, including the basis for objections to municipal land plans, and may be used only as a statistical indicator when reviewing the state of the environment’. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, stresses that they do not want any general dilution of the INON concept. So there's a bit of a gap in the vision between the bourgeois parties when we get a new deal on this case. I have often reflected that in Norway we are approx. 4.8 million inhabitants over 320 000 km2. So that's going to be approximately. 15 inhabitants per square mile. The country is almost the same size as Japan, which has 127 million inhabitants. So it's going to be 336 inhabitants per square mile. One might think that we had enough space and that there should be no cause for land conflicts, but we see that very often – development interests against nature, the environment, cultural protection, cultivated land, etc. It is therefore a good thing that the Committee of Consultants is now expressing in its opinion that: ‘It is important to consider the different environmental values, such as: area of natural disasters, open air areas, etc., when plans for development are assessed. This is an aspect that needs to be balanced in relation to other considerations – such as: forest roads necessary for active forestry or for other economic activities’; In fact, a set of laws also provides for the preservation of natural values. Still, a lot of times you see that there has to be a balance. Once in a while, there may be reason to remember that it is also allowed to use common sense or something called common sense. At least that's my experience of the time I was a local politician. There is now a report from the State Agriculture Administration and the Directorate for Nature Management on forest road construction and the concerns of INON. I've got so much foam through the report, and he's actually giving a reason for optimism. When these two instances can largely become some, at least some of the conclusions, it should provide a basis for us to also get a factual review of the INON and come up with good solutions when matters come back to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e512	With experience and knowledge of the manipulation of INN used in public administration over time, it is actually high time that the definition of this manipulation was clarified, not least on the basis of the origin of the manipulation. The saxe spokesperson, Rudihagen, was a tour of the big foreign country. We see that this replay actually comes from North America, and it appeared in public representations early in the 1970s. Among other things, we also see that the forest owner organisation ALLSKOG claims that this practice is directly inappropriate for Norwegian nature, cf. the origin of North America, which has a completely different and untouched geography than the one we have here to land. Today, we experience that INON is being used in management practices and can affect the activity of nutrients in the forest very hard. Today’s INON practice involves a significant delimitation of the practice of nutrition and will eventually have major negative effects on nutrition and employment for rural communities where few or perhaps no alternatives are available. It is therefore important that the contents of the outline reflect a real content. INON, a non-interruptible natural area, is not uninterruptible. We can see that. Speaking of intervention, we have noted the invitation of the Navarsete Central Party in 2009 to a so-called MOTMAKT campaign, as an appropriate perspective for a debate on these issues. But once again we see that this party – the centre party – stands out verbally with one hold, but in practice has a completely different one. So the term "don't mean what I'm saying, but what I'm doing" should definitely be important in that context. Once again, in 2008, ION redefined and took over areas with large tractor and forest-car roads known as non-interventional roads, it also contributed to a reduction in the legitimacy of the Inon operation. The proposal of ALLSKOG to exempt forest and tractor roads in the definition may have a great deal of sympathy. There is a greater guarantee of nutrition for landowners, but water further out the understanding of the area. In fact, I have a greater sense of the proposal to remove the entire INN-action, given that almost all the productive area until recently has been used for just nutritional purposes. I therefore agree with the demand that the government file a case for the Stortinget regarding the clarification of the INN-trafficking. I take this up with me the proposal that the Progress Party has with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e525	The representative Oskar Jarle Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e528	Private property law is deeply rooted in Norwegian culture and in the consciousness of the Norwegian people. At the same time, there is a general acceptance of the obligation to take care of the environment, so that future generations can enjoy and benefit from nature as much as those who live today. In this context, the management of the country's area is central. Right is that society has to make sure that the population has an impact on land policy, both locally and nationally. It is crucial for people to have respect for the laws and regulations governing nature and environmental protection. The right has behind it an inspiring national meeting, where private ownership was an important matter. Party leader Erna Solberg's statement in Evening Post May 6th is clear speech. Right wants greater power for local government in elected bodies. She says, among other things:\t\t You can change ‘No state bureaucrat shall be able to oversee a local, elected assembly.’ Erna Solberg further states that the municipalities themselves should decide on building projects, nature management and exemptions for beach sona. Right will have full reorganization of the distribution of power between state and local authorities to prevent local democracy from becoming more and more watered down, and prevent more and more decisions from being shifted to faceless bureaucracy. Many people have noticed that the leader of the Center Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, invited on 1 December 2009 to debate the Oslo dominance in Norway, at the same time as she launched her MOTMAKT campaign. Since then, the powerful party leader, the municipal minister and the member of the government's sub-selection have traveled the country and the beach around to say that they serve their heads in a barrel. Paradoxically, the MOTMAKT campaign offers a very good perspective on a debate on the issues of power in land policy. This is a debate we in Right think should be held in this room, not among the state bureaucrats Life Signe Navarsete so scornful to take power from. ION cases and the fight against this involvement would have been a sensible MOTMAKT initiative. We in the Right are more concerned that something actually has to happen when it comes to municipal self-government and local democracy, than both the Central Party and the Government. It will be clear on this matter. So-called non-interventional nature area, INNON, is the area of questions of defined measures, for example road. With the affected land area, a belt of 1 km around heavier technical interventions means, where such measures cannot be initiated without relocating the boundaries of non-interventional areas. About 70 pst. the land area is covered by such a calculation method. On top of this, the definition of INNON gives more questions than answers. One thing we could read about in the Nations November 21, 2009, illustrates this well. A road west of the Feminine is considered to have built nature on the east side. After what is revealed, one almost doesn't see the road from the mountains or from the sea, and he gave the homeless people on a five-car drive in 1999. The 10 km long road is about 5 meters wide from ditch to ditch and builds down 0.05 km2 of nature, but it is registered that he has caused 72 km2, or 1440 times as much nature, to fall away. After this, the road shall be the fifth largest natural intervention in recent times. The imprecise definition of non-interventional natural areas is not such a big problem if non-interventional natural areas are to be used only as an indicator. By contrast, if non-interventional natural areas are to be used as a criterion, which is to be given decisive importance by administrative decisions, this will be different. For many rural areas, non-interventional natural areas have developed in many ways into an effective bottleneck in relation to spatial planning and local development. That's just how the use of INNON we're constantly getting more reports about. In the United Nations on 18 November 2009, the Association of Utmark Municipalities, the USS, wrote its legal secretaries: ‘Many municipalities only object to spatial plans on the grounds that the area is Inon. The USS raises questions as to whether this is legally sustainable.» Even if we feel that the government is responding to the challenges associated with INNON, the management of this matter has shown that not all red-green politicians are involved. Both the Center Party and the Workers' Party want a review of the INON. Case Spokesman Rudihagen says in the nations: ‘We must take into account cultivated land, outdoor life and natural diversity, but we must also have active forestry in this country.’ Then it's very disappointing that these parties' representatives don't use this opportunity to give a clear signal if they want the INON operation to be used, and what content it should contain. It is particularly disappointing to see that the Center Party does not dare to use this case as part of its MOTMAKT campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e577	There is little doubt that the Røres national meeting, for which the representative Lødemel was enthusiastic, was a great inspiration for many. Not least I think it was an inspiration for those who want men to spend less time with their children, and those who want to increase the monitoring of the individual. For small children's families and Internet users, however, I think the country meeting was bad news. For nature, the Right Policy is also bad news, but here the Right should not bear all the responsibility. More than 1 000 km2 of non-interventional nature has been lost from 2003 to 2008. There is a trend in the wrong direction and the greatest loss of non-interventional nature since 1994. So the pressure on non-interventional nature is increasing, and it's the energy sector that has recently suffered the greatest loss. There is an important input to this debate, because behind these figures there are large environmental values. Norway is unique and there are not many European countries that can refer to major non-interventional areas. It's a strength for us. Large interconnected natural areas are also important for many species to live and walk. Maintaining these areas is particularly crucial when we know that the pressure will continue, and is thus an interesting parallel to the debate on oil and gas expansion in the Lofoten and the West Pole, because man-made climate change will lead to changes in the natural habitats of species and lead to a greater need for distribution corridors. Developments that are now perceived as Utramatic can therefore prove to have major consequences in a longer perspective. We have to take into account that nature is changing, and create changing patterns of movement and habitats for species. The precautionary principle is important. The fact that Stortinget has taken this into account is shown by a number of large-scale communications that the Council of State has previously provided examples of. There is no need to draw the debate closer to the parody by putting absolute contradictions between use and intervention on the one hand and the preservation of non-interventional natural areas on the other. INON is included as part of the environmental impact assessment of interventions. The dividing lines are not absolute. I still think there is a need for more debate on the INNON concept. It is therefore positive that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture cooperate on the relationship between the conservation of non-interventional natural areas and forest road construction, which is a widely used example in this discussion, and that the Council of State warns that it will return to the Storting with its own case concerning the conservation of non-interventional natural areas. I think I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e595	Today's debate is not a debate for or against taking care of the free nature. All must be aware that in non-interventional natural areas there may be areas of particular value in terms of the habitat of vulnerable species and rare natural habitat types, or areas important for outdoor life. It is not, however, that all the so-called non-interventional nature has these values. Similarly, important habitats for species, rare nature types and valuable open air areas may lie outside the area defined as uninterventional nature. INON is meant to be a yardstick to follow the evolution of natural use in relation to heavier interventions in nature. There was no intended role in government beyond that. Until then, the unit of measurement is too large. In the Center Party, we ask questions both about how the non-interventional nature is defined and how the definition is practised. The issue we are debating today is the background to the fact that, in some cases, it has established a practice in which administrations object to plans or reject individual measures based on the general objective of the Stortinget to preserve the free nature of intervention. A user using ION as a scale. The centre party believes that not only does this practice lack good enough legal anchoring in laws and regulations based on decisions in this room, but he could also in the worst case lead to the expansion of the pressure on valuable natural areas, food soils and open-air areas that have no INN definition attached. To start with the definition, today it's like that. forest car roads, tractor roads and construction and seat roads of more than 50 metres in length are included in the definition ‘technical intervention’. In the Centre Party, we are pleased with the cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture to clarify these definitions more precisely. Within the definition there are also kraftliners with a voltage of 33 kV or more. On the other hand, force lines with a voltage of less than 33 kV are not included, although the difference can hardly be seen with only the eye. The example of the 10 km long road that builds 72 km2 of non-interventional nature, thus becoming one of the five largest natural interventions in Norway, which the opposition uses in this matter, is actually a good example of how wrong it might be if one were to base these definitions and have them as absolute. Intervention-free nature will, according to INNON, cover much of the total land area in Norway. At least we haven't perceived from the Center Party's side that there is some blank authority for the administration to prevent interference in this difficult area based only on the INON scale. It is also important to bear in mind that non-interventional natural areas should not be confused with untouched natural areas. Almost all productive land in Norway has until recently been intensively used for many nutritional purposes. Many of the areas that are now classified as non-interventional are, for example: cultural landscapes. In other words, the definition as it is today is perceived as illogical in many places. When it comes to how the definition is practiced, we have to look at the consequences that he can have if he is fully practiced. For example, 65 pst. of the most mature forest in the Nord-Trøndelag are located within the INN areas – without forest roads. In other words, mowing the forest is at best becoming harder and more expensive and at worst impossible. It must be a crossroads for both the President and others. It goes without saying that this does not help us to achieve the renewable goals we have seen. In addition, there is a significant impact on the practice of the third largest industry in the North Trondelag, i.e. the forest industry. The Central Party is pleased that the Council of State says clearly that he will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a case of non-interventional nature. We hope this can happen as soon as possible. I believe it is important that the case be dealt with thoroughly, as the case-speaker also mentioned. It is important to ensure that non-interventional natural areas are managed in a way that is logical and serves the purpose. In addition, it is necessary for the administration to take place in line with a clear political and legal anchoring. Here are the laws of nature and planning and building laws our best tool. So both the Right Party and the Progress Party have criticized the Center Party for not following up on what one says. Well, in this case it is such that the Council of State has clearly said that he will come back to Stortinget with a matter of this. This is what follows the intention of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e626	INON is a term that in itself is quite meaningless, and it can hardly be said to be all-round. INON — non-interventional natural areas in Norway — provides a status overview and an overview of the development of non-interventional natural areas. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to take account of different environmental values, such as: natural diversity and open-air life when considering development plans. These considerations need to be balanced against other considerations such as: forestry roads, which are needed for active forestry, or taking into account other commercial activities. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that there is now a cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to settle and assess how best to balance different considerations in this field. For the Christian People's Party, the issue of private property rights and local self-government are important principles for which it is important to protect. For the Christian People’s Party, it is also essential that decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level and as closely as possible to those affected. The question of the concept of non-interventional natural areas (INON) raises important issues in this debate. This should therefore be given a wider treatment in Stortinget when we get the case back. Many municipalities have objections to spatial plans solely on the grounds that the area is INON. I believe there is a need to clarify whether this is legally sustainable. State Councillor Erik Solheim’s letter to the Committee dated 15 March 2010 refers to a number of political documents from different governments, which refer to the concept of INON and mention its value. However, too much of the review is that INON is not a target in itself but an indicator. INON has not been treated as a political goal in itself. The letter from the Council of State shows that ‘intervention-free natural areas’ have nevertheless played a major role in many local land issues. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to preserve values related to the non-interventional areas. However, the term INON contains imprecise definitions and is considered incomplete. With the definition of today, a small forest road will reduce non-interventional natural areas, while a cabin field does not. The Christian People's Party therefore sees the need to clarify the concept of non-interventional natural areas. We believe that there is a need for a review of the definition and status of the concept of ‘intervention-free natural areas’ and therefore support the proposal of the Right. But from the Christian People's Party I would like to stress that we do not want such a review to lead to a general dilution of the INN concept, but that the legal basis should be clarified, and that one avoids arbitrariness and ensures a holistic practice. That is why I look forward to the matter with which the government will come back to Stortinget at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e645	I thank you for bringing this question up in Stortinget, which is absolutely excellent. I just want to thank those who have advanced the matter here. On the other hand, it appears that quite significant institution-makers, as Torstein Rudihagen was also in the process, are taking the matter up to the vote when the government has made it so clear that we will come back to Stortinget with a review of this, so that the Stortinget will have a good debate on the matter. That being said, I would like to stress the importance – and fortunately it was also the Christian People's Party within – of these areas. It is quite unique in Europe that we have areas that are still unaffected by human intervention. I remember being very, very surprised when, in my time in the Committee on Transport, I saw a plan on which areas in Norway were in 1900, 1970 and today within a radius of a few kilometres from the nearest intervention. There were difficult areas, of course, in 1900, still significant in 1970, and it has now shrunk to almost nothing in recent years. So there are still some areas like this, and they're probably worth taking care of, because it's quite unique in Europe. It is also important in a climate perspective where species may have to retreat, where species will change their way of life. The fact that there are corridors that are relatively pristine may have a major impact on species survival. The main measures to reduce the number of non-intervention areas are at present power generation and forest highways. Both things are something you sometimes want. Of course, it also means that there is no absolute obstacle to intervention that an area is defined as a non-interventional area. What that means is that you have to be particularly careful, that there is a warning bell going to be used to evaluate this one more time. Then, in a number of cases, authorisation for the measure is granted, although it could be of such importance. I think it is very important to note that this was something that the Bondevik government said in a positive way. When I say that, it's because we're now seeing how the Right in the area by area runs from the environmental policy of the party under the Bondevik government. It must be to credit for the Christian People's Party that they had some positive influence on the Right when they were in government cooperation. Under the Bondevik Government, it has: ‘INON’ – I try to avoid using abbreviations, but thus non-interventional areas – ‘must continue to be an important tool to ensure non-interventional areas that are relevant to, inter alia, outdoor life and biodiversity’. Now it's almost impossible to hear a positive word about this. I read with interest the interview with the Right Leader in the evening post just before the weekend. It's hard to know, because it's so unclear, whether these are just vague thoughts that have no meaning. If it is quite clear that there is a huge backlog for environmental protection in Norway in what is one of Norway’s largest and most important parties. I am very concerned about what we are now seeing, because the question that is being asked rhetorically here is pointless: should an anonymous bureaucrat in some state institution be able to test the municipal politicians? The answer to that is a roaring no. Of course, no anonymous bureaucracy should be able to test Norwegian municipal politicians. But the question is: is the Storting going to be able to take decisions on key environmental policy issues that will provide the framework for what kind of policy can be pursued by the municipality? Or will any majority in any municipality be allowed to destroy the nature of its municipality for future generations and prevent the public from accessing areas, contrary to the opinion of the majority of the population? That's the real question, and we need a thorough discussion about that. My opinion, to put it very eloquently, is that Harald Haarfachre gathered Norway to one kingdom. That was a good thing. We had marjorams, thugs and a lot of other things in our time, but it was actually a positive thing that Norway was gathered into one kingdom. And the Storting is the power agency that decides what kind of environmental policy we're going to have in Norway. What we're looking at now in the area by area is that the Right is questioning an environmental policy that they've been largely involved in in Stortinget. The right was on the predatory settlement, but we don't get any homage for it in the Storting. We just get critical questions for that. The right has been involved in the non-intervention areas. Now it also comes up as a question. The right is saying that they are in favour of coastal zone policy, but there are only critical questions about it – and I could go on. I am concerned about this operation we are now looking at in the Right towards the environmental policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e665	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e669	Recently, we were able to read in the VG about a collapse that went on idle, as the government did not deliver cases for treatment. The opposition has called for more things, because we can refer to motor travel in the field as an example, and there are others as well. The question that then becomes natural when it applies to INON cases, where one says that one should come back again, is: When does the Council of State expect, and when has the Council of State thought, to come back with that matter again?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e674	Is there one thing I've learned in politics, is that making self-appointed temptations, just political self-targeting, for every time it goes a week or fourteen days beyond that deadline, we're going to hear that there's a quarrel in the government, or that the government is sleeping, or that the government isn't doing its job. Therefore, I will not make a self-appointed deadline for exactly when we are going to come back to Stortinget with it. But let me say, my intention is that we should come back quickly to Stortinget with this. We're going to get back to Stortinget in such a way that Stortinget is given the opportunity to have a proper discussion about it. If we were to indulge, I am absolutely sure that both the Advance Party and the Right will remind us of the matter properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e679	The Council of State stressed in its statement that environmental policy should be anchored in this Chamber. We agree with that on the Right. At the News of the Day, Athens, the Councils of State debated issues such as: INON and asked what piece of legislation INON is anchored in, i.e. the anchorage in this room. The state council couldn't answer it on the kick. I understand that in a hectic debate. After all, it's 70 pst. of the country's area, so I repeat the question, the Council of State: in what Norwegian law is INON anchored and based, and in what paragraph of that law is this referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e686	I am pleased that the representative made the same recognition as I did, namely that I was unable to respond to it in the debate at that time. That's why I've of course prepared for that point right now. The non-interventional natural areas are enshrined in the Law on Planning and Building, in the Forestry Act, in the Water Resource Act and in the Waterways Regulatory Act as well as in the Nature Diversity Act. All of these tools provide the basis for managing the non-interventional areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e691	There has been some public debate on non-interventional natural areas even before the Right put it on the agenda. There has been a report from the Directorate for Nature Management and the State Agriculture Administration saying that if a forest road is allowed to be built in the so-called pristine nature, State aid should also be granted to these roads. The forestry association is very pleased with such a conclusion. They say through their CEO, Kvaal: ‘The alternative is to do as Denmark does. There is no contribution to forest roads, nor is there any obligation to apply for them. It is up to the forest owner to decide whether the road is profitable enough to be built.» That's what Quaal said to the nations last week. Is this a model that the government will consider when it goes through this, or is this a model that the Council of State can already say is not the way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e701	I do not think I should preface the outcome of that debate, also because, of course, it is not under the Ministry of the Environment alone. But we have a close dialogue with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on precisely these issues, on how forest roads should be managed in relation to the non-interventional nature areas. There is also a process in progress to look at what can be claimed to be subsidising an action that does not have a positive climate benefit. Forest motorways will, of course, be one of the many themes that you will consider in such a context — whether a forest road can be paid through forestry or whether it is subsidised for something that can be discussed. But it's among many themes that we want to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e708	It is clear that the Council of State has allowed itself to be irritated by this proposal and thereby exaggerate its dissatisfaction over not only this part of the Right Environmental Policy, but the entire spectrum. Now I saw the representative of the Central Party in this debate as if he essentially agreed with what is in the proposal. Therefore I will ask the Council of State: why does he let his anger go beyond just the Right Party and not the Center Party in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e713	My concern is not that the Right gets this case up to broad lighting in Stortinget. As I said, I really appreciate that. We're going to come back and get a real light on it. What worries me is the interview I saw with Erna Solberg in the evening post before the national meeting. Now I'm going to admit that I haven't seen in detail how this was followed up at the national meeting, but I think it's a widespread attack on what can be called national environmental policy, because in a series of crucial areas for the environment, Stortinget has set the framework. It is the Stortinget who has decided that we should not have expansion in the beach zone, not some bureaucrats. It is the Storting that has adopted predatory policies, not bureaucrats. It is the Stortinget who has decided that we should have a purchasing centre policy to prevent a municipality from moving customers out of a nearby city or a dense place and destroying it, not any local bureaucrats. The same applies to the mountain zone, etc. All of this is absolutely crucial. If we go away from the fact that the Storting should take a fundamental decision for an environmental policy in Norway, I think it will be a very serious environmental situation. That's why I'm worried about what's right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e720	The last answer is permeated by a very small critical attitude to how a bureaucracy also develops. But that wasn't the point. I think the Council of State in its article is incredibly historyless and shows a fundamental distrust of local government that I think there is reason to mention. I think he said something like that every municipality must not be allowed to destroy its values. That was at least what came into my ears. What we're talking about mostly in District Norway is a cultural landscape, a rural community, developed from basic, long-term traditions with respect for sustainable use. The fact that an SV State Council can then talk about local administration with the basic mistrust he is doing here illustrates the difference in thinking between Right and SV. I'm very happy that we have so different thoughts. So here we're going to have a lot of future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e727	Let's not go to District Norway, but let's go to Oslo. Think about how many crazy developments in Oslo that have been stopped by the national antiquities over time, which on behalf of national targets have thus set different standards for what to do here in the capital. That's the exact same thing. The size has two roles here: one is that an instance is needed that can look beyond the immediate, but look at the interests of future generations, look at the whole. The second is that there is a need for an agency that can look beyond the individual municipality but looks at the public interest. People from neighbouring municipalities and other municipalities also have an interest in what is happening in each municipality. Seeing this whole in national environmental interests is the role of the Storting. The apparently now right-hand hate institutions of the type ricksantikvar or many others have helped in a series of areas to prevent the very great destruction of Norwegian nature and Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e732	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e738	This is an important matter, it has underlined the debate. And I notice that the majority of the comments refer to the concept of ‘non-interventional natural areas’ as an instrument because it provides a status overview. However, all experience shows that this concept is used for much more than just providing a status overview. It is used as a justification for objections to many municipal and local plans, thus limiting local autonomy and limiting local social development. From the Right, we emphasise that in the Norwegian tradition of both Norwegian cultural landscapes and Norwegian outlands, the administration has been based on local knowledge and careful, considerate use over several hundred years, based on cultural sustainability, which in turn is based on the fact that those who live in or near nature and who live by nature have a self-interest in managing natural resources and nature as a habitat, both for themselves and too large and too small – that is, biodiversity. This is why, in the opinion of the Right, it is alarming when the Minister of Environmental Protection of the UK spokesperson refers to local self-government in the sense of any local government – I think it is a word-right quote: any local government can set aside national environmental considerations. I'm responding to it. First of all, I do not think that ‘any local government’ is not thinking about providing its own resource base, its own natural qualities, in the best possible way. In fact, from the Right, we believe that it is the local authorities that have the greatest interest in managing these environmental values in the best possible way and that are closest and have the best overview in view of just doing so. That's why we're critical of the INON in the form we see this practiced by this government. That's 70 pst. of the land area of the country. It's a huge intervention in local self-government. There is a lack of legal anchoring. I think that's what the Council of State's response in the lines underscores. This has been enshrined in many laws by the Ministry of the Environment. The size has not been given the opportunity to assess this in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e745	INON has been seen by many of us as a snitch of areas in Norway. Most of the forest is driven through all times in Norway — as long as we have lived. Nature has been used for all possible nutritional purposes until recently. Although most people are unable to see that the forest has been cut through several times, or that the forest and pasture are growing again, it does not mean that this is how Spring Lord created nature. When I was young, I helped my father mowing in the woods. We hopped the trees with what Erik Bye called the tiger tail, and then we drove them out by horse. It's probably a form of operation that is not feasible today, I think. It actually did a pretty small cut in nature. But let's say that for some reason, some people now want to preserve nature as someone thought it was, that is, like a wild field. In doing so, we must not ignore the democratic game rules, the historical use of land, Norwegian law, legal certainty for owners and the loss of long-term environmentally friendly industries that build their existence on value creation precisely through production on these areas. That, for example: forestry is not managed very often on the land, because of the long-term nature of the forest and its mode of operation, and not the sudden discovery of the areas. In Trøndelag, mentioned earlier in this debate, 65 pst. of the old forest for the next 20 to 30 years be in so-called INON areas – logically enough because these areas are the remaining part of the old forest – and therefore the road construction is now needed. One has been denied the development of several such roads. These raw materials have helped to provide the basis for the forestry industry in Trøndelag throughout all years. For some reason, if society believes that this old forest should not be used, it will result in a severe reduction in the forest industry, including bioenergy. There may also be reason to stress that if this happens, it is not only the forest owners who are affected – if anyone would believe it. The really big losses lie further into the value chain and throughout society. You might also ask why old roads that are now beginning to grow again have become uninterventional nature since the summer of 2008. That's how it takes 50, 60, 70 years before one comes back and chops in the woods again, and at that time a lot grows again. There are several solutions to this matter if the will is present. I have previously proposed that forest and tractor roads should be removed from the definition. It would do something. As INON is used today, it would be an advantage if it were removed and replaced by something quite different. If there were to be protective elements in this area, it would be better to use so-called ordinary protective items — and preferably voluntary protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e758	For the sake of order, the president would just mention that tiger swans are not something that was just invented in a song; that's the name of a known case, produced in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e761	The starting point is not that we have to do anything with the ever-increasing pressure on nature. In fact, the pressure has been significantly reduced, and it has been greatly reduced in recent years, despite what the Council of State said in the meantime, among others. through the total failure of the government's predatory policy. Regrowth and removal are good enough evidence of that. Now that the state wants to create wilderness areas that have been used actively in the past, it cannot ignore democratic rules of play, the historical use of land, Norwegian law, legal certainty for owners and the loss of long-term investment for environmentally friendly industries that build their existence and value creation on just production in and in these areas. The fact that forestry does not operate the areas very often is, of course, quite natural, as has been said here before, because it takes time to let the trees grow. In trøndelag, it's now 65 pst. from the old forest to be removed for the next 20 to 30 years. They are now located within these INNON areas and will not be possible to include the current legislation. I think it's going to be very strange that the government and the majority of the day in the Grand Duchy don't want and don't see the importance of taking out these raw materials, and providing both those who own and will run this, and the industry and industry who in the next round depend on this wood. One might wonder if the roads that are now beginning to grow again, from the summer of 2008 onwards, have suddenly become non-interventional natural areas. I think it's going to be a big paradox that you're pointing out that forest highways that haven't been used in the last 20 years, now obviously non-interventional areas. This reminds me a lot of the snitch. When, in the last election campaign, we had several meetings with the forest industry in the Nord-Trøndelag – where all the parties participated, including the government parties – everyone was very clear that this is going wrong, this is going wrong and this has to be reduced. Nor do I think that when you look at the realities of excluding forest roads and tractor roads from the definition, that's enough. The best thing would probably have been to remove the INON concept, because it is – as I see it – a snitching of protection. It should be expected that Norway, as a legal state, will also act as one. This means that the areas to be protected must be protected by the law designed for the purpose and not by a rule such as INON.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e774	Since we come back to the non-interventional areas when the government presents more about it, I won't cross it out anymore, but stick to what's the political new this week: Right dramatic shifts in environmental policy. The fact that the Progress Party is not concerned with environmental protection – at least in terms of the importance of classical environmental protection – does not surprise anyone. It is not a human being who has ever voted on the Progress Party because of their environmental profile. But many people have faith in the Right in this area, and therefore this is a major cause for concern. To show how colossal this turn is, I would like to quote from a very good environmental protection minister – at least in this area – who had Norway, named Børge Brende. Remember that no one was very satisfied with Børge Brende's policy in the field of climate change and pollution, but it was in the area of classical nature protection – that is, what we are talking about here now – where Børge Brende really did well and people were impressed. Let me quote from a letter that he sent to all the coastal communities of the country, state and county: ‘Coastal and coastal routes are very attractive to the public’s travel and outdoor activities. These areas are also important for nature values, landscapes and cultural memories. As Minister for the Environment, it is my responsibility to ensure that these areas receive the protection provided by the Storting. I would like to emphasise in particular the responsibility of municipalities to manage the areas in line with national interests. The county and county councils must also ensure that the national guidelines are followed.’ And then there's multiple sides of reason for this, and then the last section, where it says: ‘As the competent authority responsible for planning and construction, the Community is obliged to follow closely what is happening in the coastal zone and to ensure that the Law on Planning and Building is enforced. The county must continue to monitor intensively what is happening in the coastal zone in order to ensure that national objectives are met.’ I couldn't say better! This is identical to the government's policy now, namely that the Stortinget sets national targets, and it sets the framework for municipal freedom of action. In addition, I would like to add that the red-green government has softened slightly in relation to what was the situation when Børge Brende was a minister, because we have divided the country into three groups and said that in Sogn- and Fjordane and in North Norway there is not much pressure on the beach zone, there is no need for very strict regulation – there is nothing of what is reflected in this written – and we have said that in the Oslo soil it is especially required, and then Hordaland and Rogaland are in a little intermediate position. In reality, Børge Burnde stood for something that we have softened a little, but basically he agreed with our government, namely that we need national rules set by Stortinget as a framework for what municipalities should be able to adopt. And if not what Right now is running away from Børge Burnde's time as Minister of Environmental Protection, then I don't know what it is, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e791	There are probably up to several of us who have been annoyed at Børge Burnde over the years, but now we are fortunately free to worry about it. I am surprised that a government council that is otherwise concerned with talking about knowledge-based management has such a great deal of love for an apparatus that does not contain any qualitative assessments of the areas affected. So the definition of non-interventional and wild-field areas is based solely on horizontal distance from major technical interventions. There is nothing to say about the quality of the areas that are more or less protected by the current policies, without any compensation from public authorities. Heavy-duty technical interventions include lines, roads and interventions in the production and distribution of hydropower. So it's like you can't build a forest road without it coming under the term, but you can build difficult cabin palaces. And you can dig a mine without it coming under the term heavier technical intervention. But if you drill a channel to drive water to power plants, it's hit by the INN term. How this is about taking care of Norwegian nature, I find it very difficult to understand. This is only about providing statistics with the number of square kilometres on a map. With regard to the high use of forest land in the east, this has little to say. The east is already smack of forest roads in all directions. This does not reduce interference in nature by building new forest roads. On the other hand, in Trondelag and in Helgeland, more than one third of the forest we can take out to use for, among other things. bioenergy and other things that the government is constantly telling us to do, in practice, are protected by INON. Forestry is the largest industry in Trøndelag, and this is a policy that threatens thousands of jobs. Then to the Right and to Erling Sande in the Center Party: In 2007 the Progress Party promoted the following proposal: ‘The Government requests the removal of small power plants and clean forest highways from the definition of ‘diluted technical intervention’ when the measurement parameter ‘intervention-free nature’ is measured.’ It was both the Central Party and the Right at that time against it. Since 2007, we have heard that this is going to be Erling Sande, Ola Borten Moe and more sort out, and that the government will soon come up with proposals on what to do to ensure that the forestry industry can live. Nothing has happened in three years, and nothing is going to happen in the next three years either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e807	It is a little strange that this debate should degenerate into a question of national policies versus powers and freedoms for each municipality. Everyone in this room knows that a good environmental policy will not be designed here either in the main hall or in the individual municipalities. It is the interaction between national decisions, national objectives and policies, the local space for action and the knowledge they have in the municipalities, where they are in the vicinity of nature – the way in which they manage nature – which, in sum, gives good results. That's the interaction that we have to try to find in all contexts. Some people here have referred to the forestry industry and said that they are disappointed that the majority have not been busy with that industry. Yes, but dear, the majority of people are busy in the forestry industry, and the government is also busy. This is precisely why the government has asked the State Agriculture Administration and the Directorate for Nature Management to go through that problem, that we must take care of the forestry industry – to the degrees – and make sure that it can operate quite intensively. Environmentally and climatically, in fact, would be the best, at least in the long term. In the short term it may be best to leave the forest standing, but in the long term one should at least have an active forest management. Therefore, you have to find common solutions to that. So the question is, what's an owner? One of the reasons we want the case back is that there is so much confusion when it comes to these things. Right-wing expresses disappointment that we are not on their proposals. I can say that I am disappointed that they cannot agree to put matters through the Minutes, all the time the Council of State now says that he will come back with a matter that highlights this from all sides. I think it is necessary to have a form of case basis and a position from the government in order to have a good debate in this area. The Committee was in the Directorate for Nature Management and received a review of INNON. Some of them have been shown to be quite correct, i.e. ION's rendition doesn't tell anything about the quality, about the natural defect, how many names there are on the red list in that area, etc. It may, however, be that interference in nature has a value in itself. Now there are many who have followed Lars Monsen and his people on TV, and who have seen how important it is that we have field and wilderness. All in all, there are many aspects of this that mean that we have to get another case in its full width here in Stortinget, where one at any rate takes care of business and forestry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e823	Governments have used quite strong words about a u-turn in the Right Environmental Policy and about the policy we pursued in cooperation under the Bondevik II Government. I understand that the Council of State needs to remove the attention from the government's environmental policy and the SV's environmental policy in the government, which has been skinned from most sides, not least by the environmental movement itself. I would assume that this is a loving opportunity to try to get focus away from the government's lack of results in environmental policy. As mentioned by a previous speaker, there are not many issues that have come to the Committee of the Solheim State Council. I had believed that the Council of State and the SV had taken the opportunity to pursue a much more active policy than they actually do in this area. So I would say to the Council of State that the Right, as a conservative party, is very concerned with sustainable development. We are committed to delivering the earth in a better way than we got ourselves – from a generation perspective. But that's not what this is about. What it is about is that we want results. We do not want symbolism. We want and believe that the best results are obtained in interaction between the national Parliament and local politicians. The issue that is now being discussed is an example of how we do not achieve interaction. The rules and cultures that have been allowed to develop, which are not usually based on laws and discussions, make local democracy travel bust for goals, and we do not achieve the good interaction that we should have in order to get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e832	To Rudihagen: It’s no wonder that there’s going to be a little debate around a little bit of general principles when the Council of State makes it a major point in its first post to attack the Right and what was done at the national meeting this weekend. Then there has to be a somewhat general debate. It is obvious that the Right is concerned with environmental protection, which was also said before. It is in the nature of conservatism that one should take care of and develop what one has, within sustainability and without destroying anything at all. That's the very basis and philosophy of our thinking, so that's why we don't have the spinal reflex that the council obviously has when he uses the Oslo example in the lines. In fact, I have much greater confidence in the City Council of Oslo than sitting down and wanting to destroy the city if not the National Antiquities product is on with regard to all the buildings. I think that's a fundamental difference in thinking between the Council of State and me. He also talks about setting a framework for local government. Of course you have to – but you don't have to take over local administration. That's the whole difference. Since the Council of State has such a distrust of local self-government and in particular of property rights, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he has some very good examples of government, central government being what is good environmental policy. I think you have to be pretty historyless not to see that that's the opposite that applies. Ownership and local self-government ensure diversity, ensuring that not everyone goes in the wrong direction – what state governance does not do. You're pretty sure that if you go in the wrong direction first, everyone goes in the wrong direction. If there is something Norway is about to do now, then it is going in a direction where a lot of Norway broke down, precisely because the Council of State is in Oslo and has a Oslo perspective on all the challenges. It's dramatic for everything other than what's inside a little spot around Oslo. It's starting to be dramatic for Oslo, too, so I guess we've got such a focus on it – probably! But I would strongly oppose the fact that we are not concerned with environmental protection. We are concerned that trust and responsibility should lie out locally, it should belong to ownership, and then a government agency should come in with corrections if it gets too bad. I'm going to admit that there are examples there, but they never get as bad as when the state goes in the wrong direction. I think we should be able to point out so many good examples that the Council of State will have problems in that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e843	I welcome the fact that the National Council of the Right's meeting this weekend, which was, gave unanimous support to Erna Solberg's recording in the Evening Post on Thursday 6 May. It did so by expressing confidence in local democracy, by demonstrating confidence that local elected representatives care about their municipality and will best facilitate local social development, not least taking care of environmental perspectives. This is not a u-turn from the Right – on the contrary, it represents a high level of ambition on behalf of the environment. The councils were also at Børge Brende – gave Børge Brende a nice visit – and referred to a document signed by Burnde. The Council of State then came to the fore was to stress what is actually the main point in this case, namely that the then Council of State Burned just underlined that Storting’s national policy was to be based on how the municipalities were to deal with this. In the case of non-interventional natural areas, the Council of State itself has confirmed that it is not anchored in this room, it has spread beyond a large number of laws, and the Storting as a body has not treated non-interventional natural areas as a concept in a single context. So instead, the municipalities are now increasingly experiencing, under the current government, what we might call a tape-tyranny. If we look at the map and base the national parks, landscape areas and reserves on the map – everything under the Nature Diversity Act – and add uninterventional nature areas on the same map, then there will be almost nothing left for local democracy to manage for its own local community development, based on local knowledge, local conditions and local – what I would call – love for the countryside. That's what this case is about. It made the Right National Meeting very clear, and we are very pleased with that in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e855	The President would point out that ‘measurement tape tyrant’ is not exactly a parliamentary expression. There are probably other terms to describe what you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e858	It's a little special to hear the Progress Party present it as if the loss of non-interventional nature does not increase, because that's exactly what it does – proven! The last survey shows a pressure that we have to over 16 years back in time to find our husband. The expansion press in Norwegian nature is increasing, and the Progress Party is speaking against better knowledge. The Progress Party does the same when the representative Lien claims that the Council of State does not intend to do anything, because what we are just discussing in the Chamber is that the government intends to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with its own case of non-interventional natural areas. So it is not much new from the Progress Party – nor is it that the representative Lien is struggling to see the value of the non-interventional nature in itself, and that the definition of ‘interaction-free nature’ is just a non-interventional nature. More specifically, hearing the Right is trying to create an absolute contrast between national politics and local democracy. It's going to be a pretty populist representation of what's just an interaction, which the representative Rudihagen was into. The simplified presentation of the will of the Greatness, manifested in a bad and anonymous bureaucracy that is about to plague local democracy, creates only contempt for the administration. The production is very inconvenient with the representative Meling’s attempts to attack the SV’s government environmental policy, for there is a policy that has delivered more in every area of the environment than the Right has ever made clear in a government, both in terms of protection, climate and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e865	This has been an exciting debate with many decisions, and he touches into a deeper stranglehold than just the INON act, namely the relationship between the role of the state and the role of local self-government. I think it's best to say that a clarification attached to the INON approach is important, precisely to give the local self-governed opportunity to make wise decisions. As I said in my post, a rigorous practice of the non-interventional natural measuring stick INON to manage the area could result in the INON area that has no additional values related to natural handicaps or to the habitat of species or open-air life being given priority over areas that the municipalities consider important in terms of outdoor life, biological deprivation or other. Then the representative Tord Lien, the tradition believes, has some criticism in both the one and the other direction. I believe that in this case the representative Lien is wrong. There's actually work going on here, both in clearing forest roads up to the definition of INN, to which we've been referred by several people here, and also in reporting that one should come back to Stortinget with a case about INN, as it's both demanded and desired from the opposition. In that way, one is in a good way. Today's debate shows that it is important that these matters come as soon as possible. Otherwise, I'm going to share it with the state council when we're about to soften a very rigid beach zone code, like the previous government, with the right in the head, got added, to a more regional differentiation that would make sense in the coastal zone policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e874	I'm a little sorry to extend the debate so much. However, this is indeed an important debate, because this is a very fundamental issue – which, in particular, Werp from the Right, is running away – namely whether the Stortinget should define national environmental policies in important areas. So that's what the Bondevik government did, because the Bondevik government put forward ideas about the non-interventional areas of the Storting. When you present it in a big message, and the Storting doesn't reject it, it's looking at it as national policy. When Børge Burnde, the country's Environment Minister, sent out a letter that was very, very strong, to underline national policy, he made it, of course, in confidence that he had the majority behind him. It is the Storting that has adopted the coastal zone policy, it is the Storing that has adopted the purchasing centre policy, it is the Storing that has adopted for all practical purposes the idea of the non-interventional areas, and it is the Storing that has adopted predatory policies. On the area by area, the Right runs from this – they dare not stand by it. I almost never get a question from the Right about why I've done too little in any environment. Why has the government done so much and too much? The representative Meling claimed that the current government had not brought so many cases before the Storting. The current government has presented the Nature Diversity Act, the largest environmental law in Norway’s history – at least for the last 100 years. This government put forward the law of the Marka. Right protested, but finally they were on it. After 30 years of standing in the field, we presented it. This government has presented the plan part of the Planning and Building Act, which is the main planning tool. This government has dramatically increased the budget of the Ministry of the Environment in relation to the situation when the Right was in government. This government has put forward a lot of protection, including the protection of the Trillemarka, which – again in the past – Børge Brende was one of the initiators of, but which nobody got until we got it. Tomorrow we will present a lot of new voluntary protection of Norwegian forests, which has also remained silent. So this government has made a dramatic change in the pace of the environment. Where we are now criticized by environmental organisations, there are areas where the Right could solve the problem. If the Right now went out clearly and said that if the government comes up with a good project technologically and economically in Mongstad, that project will stand regardless of government in Norway. Then any uncertainty about Mongstad would be gone. The red-greens have made it clear that if we get a good project, we're going to implement it. The uncertainty of the environmental movement is: Will this survive a elections in 2013, where at least the Right can theoretically come to government? The right may remove the entire uncertainty of the environmental movement with one opinion from the party leader Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e883	It was the intervention of the representative, Valen, that made me have to take the word again. It's because he says that the loss of non-interventional natural areas is increasing. Yes, it does, and the main reason is at the Staten Kartverk. More and more roads have been surveyed around Norway, and many roads have been lying in Norwegian nature for 50–60 years, at least for decades. I don't think there's going to be any worse conditions for Norwegian species for putting a road on a map, but it does, therefore, mean that less non-interventional areas in Norwegian nature have to be reported. So it's like we're being accused of not having any concern for this. No, that's right. I personally do not worry because a number on a paper is being reduced, but I agree that we need a national policy to safeguard Norwegian nature. I am concerned that cabins are constantly being built in Norwegian reindeer areas, but these cabins do not come under heavy technical intervention, and thus do not reduce non-interventional natural areas in Norwegian nature. It's a paradox. I believe that the qualitative approach to this is much more important than a number on a paper, which says nothing about the real state of Norwegian nature. Then to the representative Serigstad Valen. Hopefully he knows that since he represents Tree Layer: Of course, forest drift has changed. It is no longer very common to engage in commercial logging by taking the horse and a mechanical case out into the woods. As a result, the need to build forest roads in key resource areas for Norwegian forestry has changed. It also means that this number on a paper will be slightly reduced, but the alternative is that the most important industry in the region that Snorre Serigstad Valen and I represent are given conditions that make them unable to operate. So to the representative Sande, with whom I have had the great pleasure of polishing from this pulpit on several occasions. When I hear Erik Solheim's praise of Børge Brende's policy regarding non-interventional natural areas in Norwegian nature, it seems that Erling Sande is going to sleep very well at night in the hope that this matter will find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e894	Anders B. Werp has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e897	The Council of State underlines, and we very much agree from the Right, that there should be a link between national policies and local policies. It's the interaction there that creates the good results. But then it must also be thoughtful for the Council of State that the party after party in this debate is on this pulpit and underlines and calls for a clarification of what ‘non-interventional nature areas’ mean. It is a strong signal that, in the case of non-interventional natural areas, it is not anchored, because one does not have a common understanding of what this is all about. At least there is no national policy in this area. Then national policies are anchored outside this hall. That is our point, and that is what we want to address this matter to debate here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e902	Snorre Serigstad Valen has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e905	The representative Lien is wrong again, and unlike the representatives of the Progress Party, I am not going to accuse other debaters of being a liar, but I can tell the representative Lien that there are no new roads on maps that are responsible for the increased pressure on non-interventional natural areas. On the contrary, the energy sector accounts for 40 pst. the disappearance of non-interventional natural areas in the last review period from 2003 to 2008 and the agricultural sector is already 30 pst. the lapse in the same period. Under this, both the development of power lines, increased investment in small power plants, the establishment of wind power plants and the implementation of new and old water power development concessions. In the agricultural sector, the decline is largely due to the construction of new forest roads. It's not really that you have to choose either. That is why I am now presenting for the third time the cooperation between the MD and the Ministry of Agriculture to find a good balance there. It is only in the Progress Party's world in search of quick voices that there is an absolute contrast between non-interventional natural areas and sensible forest management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e910	First of all, I want to express a great joy at the fact that the right has taken the position that they have. This promises a good choice and cooperation after 2013. I also record that the Council of State says in a way that this debate is a little unnecessary all the time it will come to a matter, and the proposal would therefore not have had to be promoted. The question from the Progress Party has been when that matter comes. This is relevant because the Council of State has previously promised, for example: the motor race case, which went out the entire previous period, and which looks like it can pull out this period as well. This is such an important matter that you don't just have to be able to keep up with promises that you'll get started once in the future. At least it should come before the municipal elections in 2011. That is a reasonable deadline, and I hope the Council of State will follow it. What should also disturb the night sleep of the representative Sande is the approach of the Council of State to the matter that comes, for there is nothing in what the Council of State has said that should give the representative Sande and the Central Party reason to sleep well at night. That's what's really important here, not just that you get a case, but what signals come in that case. I'm afraid that's going the wrong way. It's just to refer to the Marka Act, which was treated in Stortinget in the previous period. Every time the committee was around talking to interested parties, there should not be any problem with sensible housing and rational land use for those who were already in the field. Now we see that once the law has been passed, the county uses slightly different interpretations than the Storting actually wanted, and we get a lot of processes – yes, according to the government, it makes sense when you get processes, but to me, this becomes a lot of bureaucracy in which an attempt to crush local democracy in Oslo is contrary to what politicians promised when they were on these rounds. Then I also notice that the Council of State tried to drag the Mongstad case to the right. Let me give a little history lesson to the Council of State: in this respect, with the requirement to clean from day one, which the Progress Party has always been against as long as the technology is not required in other countries and is not commercially available, it was in fact the Bondevik government that promoted that requirement for the first time in the Climate Communication that was dealt with at the Storting in May to June 2002. It states that no new gas power plant concessions shall be granted without cleaning from day one until the climate quota law is in place, so that the Right has something to boast about if it is a goal to have unrealistic technology requirements from day one. Fortunately, the Right has now gone away from them, but I note that the Council of State still maintains it over Industrial Power More, while it is not so important for Mongstad. It shows you a little bit about how little principleal treatment there is in this case. I would also like to remind the Council of State that in 2007 and 2009, all the parties at Stortinget supported the work of the Technology Centre at Mongstad. What distinguishes the batches is not if you want to do it, but if you are going to commit to building a full-scale sewage treatment plant, cost what it costs, within a time limit, as the government's policy has been until now. I see that the Council of State still makes it a point that one should undertake to build it at any cost. I think that's a bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e921	Erling Sande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e925	Since several representatives from the Progress Party have been concerned about my night sleep, I can only point out the solutions we have found, for example: on coastal zone problems, which have shown that one can solve things jointly in this government that provides a better regulation and an even better regulation than, for example, one. the previous government expressed itself. So I have good night's sleep, and to the extent that I'm worried about him, a future government cooperation from 2013 between the Right and the Progress Party is a far greater threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e930	Now I'm not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, but it would be a very, very beneficial one for the further debate on the Right at some point in time to clarify what the party really means. It gets a little bit in line with what Erling Sande said finally here. For the government parties, therefore, a beach zone policy has been designed which is a very strict regulation for the Oslofjord, a liberal code for District Norway far and wide and an intermediate position for Rogaland, Hordaland and the inner part of Trondheimsfjorden. It might have been interesting to know whether the Right Special – I am not so concerned with the Advancement Party because it is the Right I see as a possible partner on this – agree with this, and whether we actually believe that we need national, clear rules in this area designed by Stortinget, or whether this is an area where individual municipalities can decide for themselves, which everyone knows would completely erode the national rules. So Solvik-Olsen was inside the law of the land. Very well known, no decision has yet been made on the Marka that can justify the horrors of Solvik-Olsen. The only significant decision that has been made was in connection with Linderud – it was a great joy for. All the other decisions we are going to go through now to just put in place a regime that ensures what is the purpose of the law on the land, namely to facilitate the open-air life of the people of Oslo and neighbouring municipalities, but without operating some kind of millimetre tyranny that helps people lose confidence in everything. Finally, a little bit about Mongstad. No one believes that full scale cleaning should be started on Mongstad regardless of the quality of the project. The one clear challenge I have come to the Right – and I repeat: to the Right, because I am not concerned with the Advancement Party; it will hold with the Right – is whether the Right can say clearly from the point of view that if a good, industrial, economic and technological project comes along, the Party will continue it. The environmental movement has been critical — everyone has registered that they have been very critical of the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government now — and the one point to which they are critical is the danger of a civil government in Norway. The environmental movement is not quite sure that we will win the 2013 elections. I think we have a good chance of that, but I can't guarantee anyone that the red-greens will win the election in 2013. So wrong can happen in this country that we get a bourgeois government in 2013, and then everyone is unsure whether the promises of full-scale cleaning on Mongstad stand firm. But I just want a clear statement from the Right – it would also help from the Progress Party, but my challenge goes to the Right – that a government with the Right will continue this if it is a good project technological, economic and industrial. The Christian People's Party, as I have perceived it, has come up with such an opinion. If the Right does that, all of the uncertainties about this are gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e939	The President is not sure if ‘millimeter tyranny’ is anything better than ‘measurement tape tyrant’. Otherwise, all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e944	Now, unfortunately, we see the Council of State from its worst side. The council will not commit itself to building Mongstad at any cost. Thus, the State Council has gone away from the position that SV fought through, namely that full-scale CO2 cleaning in Mongstad should be in place in 2014 at the cost of whatever technological risk is. Anyone who remembers the debate in Stortinget on 7 May 2009 knows that even the representative Erling Sande agreed to this SV position of separating pilot plants and full-scale facilities: regardless of what you experienced at the pilot plant, you had to invest in full-scale clean-up at Mongstad in 2014. It is a completely pointless position. It seems to be both the Progress Party and the Right. Even the Christian People's Party and the Left said you can't commit that way. The councils talk as if that position never existed. Then you have to have a clarification from the Right that they will be involved and undertake to build a sewage treatment plant to which the Council itself will not commit. What's weird? There's no question of being like that. If the Council of State had cared about the facts in the Mongstad case, the Council of State would have gone in and seen what a unanimous Grand Committee said when the Mongstad case was first dealt with in 2007. Then everyone said yes to the test facility, and everyone said that they supported the ambitions of full-scale cleaning. What is it to elaborate? If this works, if this is cost-effective, an aggregate increase will be behind this, and then you don't have to ask for any clarification from one batch. Even the Progress Party says that yes, then it will be a sensible way for Norway to meet its Kyoto commitments and commitments in the future to cut emissions. But if this gets expensive and bad, I don't think either the Advance Party, the Right Party or the Workers' Party, and from the state council's own way of speaking, a rather SV, will go in to build full-scale cleaning in Mongstad, and then we should get to the facts in this matter: Will the state council itself build at any price? If he says yes, that's an honest point of view. If he says no, the Council of State has turned around, but when he does not want to go into those commitments himself, he must not demand such answers from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e956	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e972	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e981	In the past, the Storting has asked the government to review the waste market and the combustion tax. The government has done so in winter and in spring, and we have a good and thorough basis for debate along with the work the committee has done on this matter. The opposition has also had a good basis for its proposal. It has been pointed out in the debate that has taken place this spring, and that there has been a great deal of publicity around it, that exports of waste to Sweden have been quadrupled in the period 2002–08. In the latest up-to-date figures, which at least I have an overview of, from 2008, exports to Sweden accounted for about a third of all waste delivered for incineration. This represents large emissions and transport-related costs and has led to a very difficult competitive situation for Norwegian operators in the industry. So I would think that much of the basis for a long, polemic debate of the kind we saw in the discussion of the previous matter between government parties and opposition is gone in this case, given that last week the government announced that the revised national budget proposed to wind up the combustion tax with effect from 1 October. It is also the same date that Sweden liquidates its combustion fee. So I'm going to be brief, because it's a total big thing that wants to take this grip, and that's good. At the same time, there is reason to recall that the incineration of waste is not the first stage in the waste hierarchy. So even if we don't think this will have negative effects on the recycling industry, there's reason to follow closely. The same applies to the issue of whether we are now going to be strict enough to meet the emission requirements of combustion plants in Norway. It is therefore gratifying that the government announces that it will evaluate after a while the environmental consequences of the planned fee settlement. It is important that the grips we are now taking to ensure Norwegian combustion plants do not affect the environment. Although we are very safe in our case, an evaluation of the consequences is very important and a very natural part of a comprehensive and good waste policy. Finally, I just want to add that this is my first case as rapporteur. It's been both exciting and instructive. I would like to thank the Committee and the many actors in the waste industry that I have become acquainted with, for a very good and instructive process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e994	The rapporteur will then be congratulated by the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e997	This could be a short and straightforward debate, provided that you stick to the topic under consideration. To just take a quick review of the matter, we have here an example of an instrument that – let's say – did not work as well anymore. When the crisis hit Sweden and the amount of waste for incineration in Sweden was greatly reduced, this led to a price change in waste which caused Norwegian incineration plants, which are in a build-up phase, to have much less competitiveness than Swedish ones. The result of this was, as in any case we in the West have had a lot of, large press releases on trailer loads after trailer loads, allegedly tens of thousands of trailer loads, with waste running from Norway to Sweden, at a time when to build up Norwegian district heating to be fired on waste. Then it becomes so that the instrument has no legitimacy anymore. The active substance no longer works as it is. What is going to be the matter is that it is hitting the ground during the effort we want to make in connection with district heating. We realized this during the summer and fall of 2009. Therefore, it was addressed in the treatment of the State budget. Therefore, it was also a majority comment in the context of the State budget that said that the government had to take this up and assess this charge. The government has. It was also clearly communicated by the government. The majority fraction of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has worked closely with the industry and the government on this issue, and we have managed to get an overall assessment. As the rapporteur pointed out, the conclusion was that we were actually removing the charge from the public on Friday. I think that this process very well shows that it is a real pleasure to sit in position and participate in the treatment of this, instead of bringing what I almost have to consider as a pointless Document 8 proposal, just before we get a phase in the revised state budget – as announced in the state budget. This is also an example of the fact that we have a government that conducts a comprehensive environmental policy and a comprehensive climate policy, so that this issue is given the central place in policy that it deserves. We have ambitions about the environment and climate. We use the means at our disposal, but our loyalty does not stand up to the means. Our loyalty is towards ambition. We adjust the instruments when necessary, and we adjust them in line with what is needed to achieve the objectives we have. We're doing this both in the waste incineration business and in other cases, which we're not going to get into this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1010	This debate will make many mines unnecessary, but personally I think he is necessary. We actually have a lot to learn from this case. When Henriksen says that there is in one way an inconceivable proposal for a representative leading, one might wonder what is most inconsequential, whether there is a three-four-day leakage before the budget is presented, or whether pressure is important to change something that is not reasonable. The levy on waste was introduced in 1999. The levy consists of a levy on the landfill of waste and a levy on the incineration of waste. Later, in 2004, the combustion charges were converted from a charge based on the amount of waste delivered at a charge directly on emissions. Furthermore, it was banned from landfilling waste that could be degraded, as of 1 June 2009. As a result, a significant part of this waste could no longer be disposed of but went to incineration. In fact, for a period of time, the landfill ban resulted in shortages of combustion capacity in Norway. But the waste and district heating industry, as a result of a political signal, took the challenge and expanded the capacity of these combustion plants. However, these facilities experienced strong competition for waste from combustion plants in Sweden. Even the financial crisis resulted in a significantly lower volume, reinforcing the challenges for combustion plants. So the industry did not get access to enough waste at a cost that could provide sufficient profitability, and the issue of the Norwegian combustion fee had to be removed, became more and more topical and came onto the track on more and more occasions. But now on Friday we could read about, and got, the first leak from the revised, and many happy representatives from the red-green government could tell that the hopeless combustion fee now would be removed. This was a happy news for us in the Progress Party, who have fought against this fee for a long time. But joy has a bismach. A number of agreements have been concluded for the supply of waste to Swedish combustion plants, based on a greater degree of precaution in our neighbouring countries when it comes to the tax regime. There were simply not enough people who believed that a tax-free red-green government would remove the combustion charge – see. biodiesel sacas, which were too many examples of willingness to make reasonable changes. In fact, in view of the fact that at least 15 000 trailer cases of waste were exported annually, this implementation should have been done much, much earlier. But, as I said, we will be glad that we have given Norwegian combustion plants the competitiveness back, which is absolutely necessary after the community has made a significant contribution to investment in these district heating plants. For parts of the country where one has had, and has, large energy deficits and power prices beyond reason, this tax regime has emerged as a direct provocative when one knows that so large an amount of energy has flowed out of the country for combustion. Luckily, we will learn from what is in this matter, and the Progress Party would like to address the proposal No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1025	The representative Oskar Jarle Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1028	I will first commend the case rapporteur for the work he has done, and for good cooperation in this matter. It is very positive that this fee is now being removed from 1 October, and that we thus come to the same line with Sweden. Having neutral conditions of competition is important, and we very much appreciate that the government here is changing this. It is good that the government has turned around, but the disadvantage is that this has taken time. For us in the Right, it's incomprehensible, because in this case one has somehow lost on all fronts. By not removing the charge, the environment has been lost in such a way that Swedish operators have received tenders and that tens of thousands of trailer cases go to Sweden with garbage from Norway. In addition, insofar as Norwegian district heating plants lose waste as a basis for heating, oil has been an alternative, which would also be a disadvantage for the environment. Then there's this with the taxpayers' money. When we first grant large sums of money through Enova to develop district heating systems in Norway, we should not use them. It could also be about the loss of value creation here at home. To the right, there was a clear case already when we dealt with the budget in the autumn, that this combustion fee had to be removed. And it's a shame that it's taken time for the government to come to the same conclusion. Many tenders have gone to Sweden, the last of which was this western offer. There, the combustion charge constituted the difference between the Norwegian operators were able to offer, and what the Swedes could offer. Only this one example means that 93 000 tonnes of waste now for four years will go to Sweden. So I'm sorry that it has taken a long time to get to the recognition Right already had in the harvest. If we look over to our Danish neighbours, only four weeks went by from their spillage of garbage began to the Minister for the Environment, where the downside had made sure that this fee was removed. In Norway, the government has spent three and a half years on this. But, as I said, the right is satisfied that the fee is now notified removed from 1 October. We're making that up, both in terms of value creation and not least in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1045	Both the representative proposal and the fact that the government has made it clear that the end-of-treatment charge is being removed allow for a slightly wider reflection on waste policy. And it's like since 1995, the annual amount of waste has increased by nearly 30 pst. It is a crossroads of thought that waste from households is increasing most. She has an increase of 90 pst. in the last 20 years, despite the fact that economic growth has been about 60 p.p. This may indicate that there is a slightly more resource-depleting economic growth we have experienced. The most important thing we can do for the environment is just to try to limit the consumption and limit the amount of waste. Producer responsibility, return arrangements and source sorting are some of the measures we can put in place, avoiding unnecessary packaging is another. The producer-responsible system was mapped by the government in 2008 and then a part of the problem was outlined, and some new schemes were proposed. It is an important tool, i.e. producer responsibility, to increase recycling efficiency. Although the supply when it comes to material recycling is in place, it is not certain that it will be used, and there we also have a challenge. A study carried out last year showed that the whole of 25 pst. is uncertain, or is not aware of the system for submitting electronic and electrical waste. For those less than 30 years, the percentage was 42, so almost half was uncertain, or not knowing, that one could get rid of this kind of product by returning it instead of taking it back in the waste. It's a cross of thought. Then it's like that waste that a non-recovery should be an energy recovery. In the last few years, Norway has built large plants to manage the quantities of waste that are to be incinerated, and has just exploited them to energy through heat and electricity. Sending waste to Sweden is not a good environmental policy. They're all a few of them. Two fullest trailers every hour are corky good environmental policies or sensible business policies. Here is the principle of subsidiarity that underlies, and we must use the waste resource in Norway. In the same way, by facilitating Norwegian heat recovery plants, Norwegian combustion plants, to compete more with Swedish ones, we are doing so by removing this fee, in the same way that the Swedish have done it. That's why, of course, we're quite happy with input from the opposition, but above all, that input from the industry has led to this fee being removed. And then we get to hope this in the long run will lead to the waste that is to be incinerated, getting a shorter way to combustion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1062	I want to say that it was good that Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen called TV 2 on Friday and wanted to give them a leak from the revised national budget – at least that was how TV 2 produced it. So the news came that the final treatment fee should be removed from 1 October, the same time as for the Swedes. I'm glad of this leak. But I am also pleased that the Council of State did so, by bringing this leakage last week, because otherwise perhaps the relationship between the Storting and the government would have become a little difficult, if we were to deal today with a matter of removing the final treatment fee and tomorrow were told that the government would remove it. So I think it was a lurking, wise, press strategy. The removal of the final treatment fee is good because we then have a level playing field with Sweden. So every hour a trailerload goes around the clock, all year round, to Sweden, which has created a lot of good energy. Many good hot showers have been produced from waste produced in Norway. But when we get rid of this incineration tax, it's important that the entire waste industry and we as consumers have an even more conscious relationship with the waste hierarchy. Things that can be reused shall be reused for sorting out. It's just what's left of the sorting process, which is to be burned, whether it gives heat to our households or to the industry, or it makes fuel to our cars. After following the waste industry in the last five years, I think I have been on an exciting journey. There's always something new to learn in this business. There are always some new Petter Smarts who have come up with some new things that make us get further compared to how we can handle trash or waste. Today, we are dealing in a way with what we do with our garbage, but I think it is so important that we focus on what we can do to minimize the occurrence of garbage, both in the case of household waste and industrial waste. From 1995 until now, according to the figures of the Central Bureau, annual waste volumes have increased by more than 30 pst. Half of the waste is recovered materially, approximately 20 pst. the waste is destined for energy recovery. But I think it's more to pick up in this area, so that's why the Christian People's Party is looking forward to Erik Solheim using his excellent commitment in this sector as well. I hope that at some point he can let go of the news that the government will have a comprehensive review of the waste industry, because it has been a long time since the Environment Minister named Thorbjørn Berntsen. It was the time he sat in the Council of State chair, that the Stortinge got presented with a complete review of this area, and I think it is time that Erik Solheim took over the staf stick and came to Stortinget with a complete review of this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1077	I am also not going to spend much time here today on the basis of what has happened recently. The left had expectations that the government would take action on waste policy when the landfill ban was introduced. The landfill ban represented a strong regulation of waste management – it was quite right to introduce it – but should have been followed up by strengthening the conditions for alternative waste treatment. In the 2010 alternative government budget of the Left, we proposed to remove the tax in its entirety. This was part of our conversion to a greener tax system and increased investment in bioenergy and district heating through a strengthening of Enova. The problems surrounding the levy on the incineration of waste illustrate, in the Left's view, the lack of a comprehensive government waste policy. It invests several billion dollars in district heating based on waste, with significant support from Enova. On the other hand, we had a strange tax that caused waste to be shipped out of the country, and the Norwegian plants remained standing without the intended source of energy – which several people have been involved in. Leakage has been revised — it is joyous, as many have experienced. And that the government, after pressure from the opposition, has removed the fee, is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1089	In dealing with the state budget last autumn, the Stortinget gave the government a mandate to look at the various environmental and economic aspects of the combustion tax as the waste market now looks. We are trying to answer these questions in the revised national budget, which will be presented tomorrow. I can assure Line Henriette Hemdal that although the Minister of Finance had not gone out last week with this leak from the budget, I had not intended to stand here and accept a lot of shut-off from the opposition in this area, without hinting about what would come tomorrow, so the Storting would not be kept in the dark in this area. However, in order not to make the debate too easy for ourselves, we must not forget why the combustion levy was introduced. It was not introduced by our government, it was introduced at a much earlier time, and it was not introduced for evil purposes. It was introduced a little because – as Line Henriette Hemdal also says – it is a waste hierarchy, and it was wanted to stimulate increased recycling. That was why the tax was introduced, and it is also one of the aspects that the government will look at when the combustion tax is removed – how we can then ensure that we get as much recycling as possible. For recovery is always, or at least as a rule, the best form of waste management. Nevertheless, with the large expansion of combustion plants that have come to Norway and with the landfill ban, it was necessary to take action to resolve the situation created by the combustion charge. The landfill ban was very important to prevent greenhouse gas emissions, including methane. We then have to look at the combustion fee again, which we also do. This is also linked to the large expansion of district heating, which has received considerable support through Enova, and waste is among the main sources of energy for district heating. That is why we need to look at waste and energy policy in the context. Then – as many have pointed out – Norwegian combustion plants have come into a difficult competitive situation with Sweden. Of course, it is not desirable for waste to be shipped over long distances, from Norwegian to Swedish combustion plants, although it is possible to make different calculations that Swedish plants are sometimes better than Norwegian ones; different calculations on what is best for climate change. So I don't think we should say that it is always wrong that Norwegian waste is exported to Sweden, just as little as it would always be wrong if Swedish waste were exported to Norwegian incineration plants. However, it is not a desirable situation that Norway and Norwegian plants are in a poor competitive situation, and there was a strong contributory reason why we decided to lift the registration fee. So I would say, since it was also referred to Thorbjørn Berntsen, that the great power he took in waste policy in the 1990s has made us have had a very strong improvement in Norwegian waste policy. We have a large increase in recycling, and we have a much better environmental standard in landfills and combustion plants. So waste policy is all in all a policy area that works well, but there is always room, of course, for looking at how this can be improved. And we're going to do that all the time. Finally, I would like to thank the industry for its good cooperation. Of course, their input has been the most basic in this context. I would like to thank the opposition for good cooperation and, above all, congratulate the case rapporteur, Snorre Valen. It's very, very rare one gets such a big breakthrough so fast in one's first case in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1102	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1105	The Council of State has underlined the need for competitiveness, but also the need for this waste hierarchy and for optimum overall management. One thing is to see this in a Norwegian perspective, but history has shown us in many ways that it is important to see it in a Nordic perspective. So my question to the Council of State is to a great extent two-part. One is whether the Council of State will initiate an overall review. The second question is whether the Council of States will do it in a Nordic perspective to make sure that we have a regime in line with our Nordic neighbours just to avoid unfortunate leakages, which are, above all, harmful to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1112	We will continuously assess whether Norwegian waste policy is good enough. If we see great need for improvement, we will, of course, come to Stortinget with it. I very much agree with that perspective that in this area that in almost all areas it is very rare to see its own policy isolated. We have very good cooperation with Swedish and Danish and Finnish colleagues in all areas – otherwise also with the Icelandic, although it is hardly so relevant here – so we like to cooperate with them on this. The most crucial thing is, of course, input from the industry itself and from those who can do this in and out. I want to listen to your vision, but the basics I think the government and the right parts, that it'll always be a good idea to see this in a bigger context. You almost never get the best policy by looking at Norway as an isolated island, apart from the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1119	General environmental taxes provide substantial revenues to the state without appearing to be anything but fiscal charges. But we have one exception, and that's the NOx fund. The NOx Fund can be used in many ways as an example of the level of success that gives you the opportunity to launch actions that are good for the environment, while also providing an economic incentive to make investments that are important for the environment. Is the Government planning similar measures that are more accurate and directly in their form than what we see in today's overall level of charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1132	I think we have to initially accept that the different taxes and taxes we have are the sources of income for the state and thus cannot be earmarked for a particular area. But I don't think we're going to reject that there might be individual areas where that might make sense, as suggested here. The NOx fund is so far a very big success. But it is part of the picture that one reason we got the NOx fund up was the threat of a fee – which did not come. But now put that aside. What has been very successful with the NOx fund is that business itself contributes, and that the creativity and enthusiasm of the business community has been leveraged in a formidable way. There have been many, many more ideas than we initially thought. I believe that when we come to the 2011 Climate Action Survey, the experience of the NOx Fund is among what we should take with us in order to see whether similar mechanisms should be put in place in the climate area to stimulate technological innovation in Norwegian industry. There's no conclusion on this. But I think it's one of the debates we need in connection with the Climate Action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1151	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1156	The Council of State said that this is a charge that is not imposed by maliciousness, and that we need to have more thoughts in our head at the same time when assessing the charge. The opposition's job is always to be dissatisfied. One is dissatisfied with the fact that the fee was there, a thorough review is requested, and one is dissatisfied with the fact that it takes half to three quarters of a year to conclude that the fee should be removed. I think it was necessary. The government has done the job ordered by the majority parties in the state budget, namely to have a thorough review with market players. As others have pointed out, this combustion tax is actually two charges. It is a charge on the substances harmful to the environment that are released from the pipe and it is a charge on waste delivered for incineration. Then, after that review, we believe that there may be a need to look more closely at the concession limit and that it is the means of reducing emissions from the pipes. However, the second charge would help to make it more profitable to sort the source while at the same time being a tax on CO2 from combustion. The opposition notes that ‘waste energy is the renewable energy source that can best compete with fossil fuels’. It is then important to point out that half of the waste that is incinerated is fossil material that should in principle have a CO2 tax. At the same time, several have argued that it is important not to dampen the pressure on source sorting, re-use and recycling. What has really been done here is that implementation of a new technology, the development of combustion plants and district heating in Norway has resulted in a reduction in fees. We are violating the principle that CO2 should actually have a charge. I think that's the right conclusion now. The competitive situation of the waste incineration industry in Norway is difficult, not least because Sweden has much higher energy prices than we do. That is why we are very pleased with the removal of fees from SV, but it is also important to point out that they should be evaluated. If the conclusion is that waste recycling will be reduced, we need to take a closer look at rules, for example: for the pre-treatment of waste prior to incineration, measures against unnecessary packaging, environmentally hostile products such as waste ends, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1174	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4 and 5 are treated together. [[See page 3262]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1203	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1212	So there are two options for treatment. When it applies to Inst. No 229 S, the government is asked here to promote during the spring 2010 session a proposal to adapt the law on outdoor motor travel so that municipalities are given greater authority within national guidelines, and where the experience of the pilot project with increased local self-government is used. Letters from the Minister for the Environment, attached to the case, have done some good for the work done and that is done when it comes to the revision of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. It is also referred to the political platform for the multi-territorial government, where it states that the government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. In view of the fact that such a review is under way – where the experimental system and its experience are part of the basis – the majority in the Committee propose that the proposal, i.e. Document No. 8:72 S for 2009-2010, shall be annexed to the Protocol. Everyone is aware that there is a need to regulate motor travel in the field. But my experience is that it has actually been possible for Norway to handle well, quite since these motor vehicles – snowmobiles and outlanding motor vehicles – got on the track. But it's important that you have a watchful look at this, because the vehicles have also developed a good deal in recent years. What the discussion is about is how tight or how liberal such a law should be. The second fundamental question here – which was also a good part of the discussion about ownership issues today – is how much national laws and regulations should be and how much municipalities should be able to decide for themselves. The government has now worked to get a good code. Following a mandate from the Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate for Nature Management made a proposal in 2007. It was out on the phone, and they made their recommendation in March 2008. The aim of this work was to establish a new platform for future motorcycling policy – a goal of reducing the volume of motor travel in the outland. The recommendation, together with the Motor Traffic and Society Report and the experience gained from the pilot scheme and current legislation, provides a basis for the government's work on this legislation. In my opinion, important and correct changes were made in June last year, such as increased access to outdoor activities, to group trips with snowmobiles and municipal emergency measures to reduce the risk of impact on elk and other deer by road or rail. At the same time, it was decided not to make any changes to the rules for the use of motor vehicles on snow-covered land in North Troms and Finnmark. An own project will be launched, with a view to tightening up the use of an engine vehicle on the badlands of Finnmark. All of this is at the back of the committee. It is also pointed out that the experimental arrangements that have been in place should continue until further notice. I must point out that one in the committee expresses a certain insolence. The legislation has been in the process of political discussion and evaluation for a long time, and the Committee therefore believes it is important that a final clarification relating to the future legislation is quickly put in place, on this issue of local authorities' access to the provision of recreational services by their own rags, which have been a topic of discussion. In the second setting, i.e. Input. 228 L, the Progress Party will present a complete proposal for the law, with all the paragraphs that belong to it. It's not that common. It usually sounds as if they were trying to get to the government when they were typing the following: ‘In doing so, the government can save a lot of time and effort on further investigations, and instead close the case to the pleasure of the Norwegian people and themselves.’ Don't you think so? Can the Minister for the Environment refuse such a generous offer? I can't find any reason to go into the bill that's leading here. It may be possible for the proposers themselves to do so. In this case, I would like to refer to the work that the government is doing, and to the work that one does in this context. The majority suggests that the matter be put by the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1234	Free movement of land is an old legal right no one in Norway wants to challenge. Unfortunately, such a right of movement does not apply to motor travel to the same degree. The law of 10 June 1977 on motorcycling in fields and watercourses provided for a greater degree of municipal decision-making over the running of land, but this was again limited in 1988, when the Stortinget introduced a common national regulation which replaced the municipal regulations for motor vehicles. This change actually left the management of motorised traffic in the outfield of the county office. That this led to a more square administration that lost legitimacy is known, and even the most protective sees the need for a change. A local scooter run that was almost trouble-free has now been given a management regime that many people don't want locally. Let me just underline the surrounding: the alternative is not almost a lawless free continuation, but a sensible change that takes care of local, commercial, and not least human needs. Universal design is a change that is legally well anchored in the Law on Planning and Building. What about all these people who depend on motorized assistance to enjoy nature and mountain landscapes, with the qualities that we all see lying in it -- especially on the basis of the fact that belt-driven running gear such as snowmobiles and belt-cars does not harm the fauna as long as they are used on snow-covered land? Nevertheless, there are strong limitations, and there are many examples of rigidity, little efficient management. One often sees a significant level of conflict between local people's interests on the one hand and the state administration on the other. But then, on the basis of strong local and regional pressure, one has accepted experimental schemes that bring praise, and which one strongly recommends. So one has good references to follow a commitment from the Council of State to make a legislative proposal in 2009. Unfortunately, this promise has not been kept. Nevertheless, we see that the resistance to the rational liberalisation of outland motor travel leads to this case being postponed. That this is a real strategy, they doubt the least. The strategy makes use of a number of issues that require compromise. Examples are management plans, allocation rounds, etc. Once again, the government comrades appear to be strongly disunited, and the central party must again give up what appears to be caffè latte-SV with all the powers. The progress party has done a job. We have put forward a direct bill today. We have put a lot of work into it, and we want to do it this way to make it clear that we are on the side of the districts when it concerns motorised traffic and the need for liberalisation. With this, I am promoting the Progress Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1245	The President would first like to point out that there is no such thing as ‘caffè latte-SV’. Otherwise, the representative has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1250	The government’s treatment of the Motor Traffic Act is a school example of how to set aside the ability of the population to influence governing authorities. As a local politician, I participated in the 2007 law consultation process. The hearing was sent out with what, in our opinion, was a very short consultation period. We expressed a wish to postpone the deadline so that the newly elected local politicians could decide on the law in the autumn of 2007. This was not possible in the department's opinion, as one had the intention to promote the law of the Storting in a very short time. The bill was, as it was, a clear violation of the policy of all parties except SV until then had led in this field. This is confirmed by the record number of hearing bodies that took place at the hearing. The large majority opposed the position of the directorate. So it's been a good two and a half years without anything special happening. The last thing we've heard is that the law shouldn't be promoted. Rather, you have to rule in the form of regulations. This is an example of the fact that the Swedish Government is using all the means to force its policy. Hearing is an important part of the democratic legislative process we have in Norway. When SV here discovered that the hearing did not give the answers they wanted, and it turned out that in a few years they could not wear out the opponents, they also went to the step not to promote the law of Stortinget. This is putting local democracy aside, and is a rather reprehensible attitude on the part of the government parties. The question is: can local politicians take on as much responsibility as the motor racing law? First, local politicians are responsible for children, young people and the elderly in the municipalities. The healthcare of children, young people, adults and the elderly is managed by local politicians. So social services for both small and large are the management of local politicians. In fact, local politicians already have quite such a responsibility – and that should be lacking! SV shows a fantastic contempt for local democracy with its mantra on central governance, central governance and central governance. Local democracy is about the possibility of taking concrete action on local issues. In the opinion of the Right, a local administration of the Motor Trade Act following a state-adopted framework will open up several good things. In fact, local self-determination is increasing. It is also true that local self-determination, in our opinion, gives greater responsibility and understanding for taking into account both the environment and nature. It is also the case that local self-determination provides the opportunity to find flexible compromises that take account of more local needs. You actually have a business out there that has a need. It is possible to meet cultural needs, it is possible to meet needs in the light of history, and it is possible to meet the needs of the local population for outdoor life and the use of nature in various ways around the country. These are the reasons that are being ignored only when one conducts such a rigid, undemocratic and centralized policy as this Council of State stands for. In conclusion, I will address the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1269	The representative Frank Bakke Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1272	This is a matter which is a repetition in our committee – and rightly so – since this legislation has not yet been completely revised. The focus of outdoor motor travel was increased when, in 2008, the Directorate for Nature Management presented proposals for a new law, and many of the elements of the proposal created a major debate, understandably enough. There are still unresolved questions in the wake of this. At the same time, it is important to stress that the government has clarified a number of rules relating to snowmobile running, ranging from municipally organised measures to strengthen road safety – running food in the outfield has been an important issue – to group running snowmobiles for the elderly or the disabled or others who have problems getting into nature. But then there's an important question, and that's the question of recreation. The government has made it clear that she will come back. We know that these eight municipalities have had a system of experimentation where one has the possibility to create a loop for recreation. This has been practiced differently between municipalities. One has had good experience and received a number of positive feedback on how this works, and in many municipalities this has contributed to less illegal running. Runtime has been directed towards runners, and there is much less stress on vulnerable natural areas. This means that there is a great deal of commitment for these experimental schemes to continue and expand, of course, to municipalities that do not have this possibility today. We in the Center Party believe that the good experience of the experiment provides a good basis for making a final decision in relation to the exercise. So I'll first commend the case spokesman, Rudihagen, for a good review, and then I'll ask myself behind an outrage with a view to getting a clarification on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1283	The next speaker is Snorre Serigstad Valen. The representative Valen gets the word after the representative Sande, because he signed up on the list of speakers after Sande was advertised as the next speaker. Normally SV would go in front of the Center Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1286	I have to admit that the Senterpartiet and SV are quite homogeneous, so there is no large ego attached to the speaker order for my part. The representative Grimstad referred to what he called caffè latte-SV. I don't think that concept is particularly relevant in the discussion here. Firstly, SV stands strongly both in the village and in the city. Secondly, it is no surprise that a large majority of cities are opposed to liberalisation of access to motorised traffic in forests and on a wide scale. But it's also worth noting, and it should bring with it the Progress Party, that more than 40 pst. by the villagers they say they are against a decoration of the rules. In addition, many believe that the legislation should be the way it is today. So there are far fewer people who want a release in this area than the proposers might think, or just to give the impression. This reminds me of what the Right made a point in the hall earlier today, that people who live and work near nature – and who like to live by it – have a special relationship with the values that nature represents. The Norwegian Institute for Natural Research has the following to say: ‘Providing recreational loops may seem difficult to reconcile with the objective of overall reducing noise and traffic loads.’ I'm a member of trial systems. However, it may appear that the experience from the motor race test shows that the objective has not been achieved. We are therefore in much of the same discussion as we had a thorough round on the INNON case earlier today – the interaction between national legislation and national environmental and management objectives determined by the Storting on the one hand and local self-determination on the other. The nation's district barometer tells us that there is no widespread demand to release motorized travel in the outland. In addition, there are very good arguments against just such a grip purely professionally. If you add the changes to the regulations last summer that the government carried out, and the fact that the government at the time of writing assesses whether there is a need for regulatory changes, I see little reason to take this proposal further. I feel confident that the government will find good solutions both for local communities and for local people. So the Right must begin to decide. The representative Frank Bakke Jensen describes a reality in which the reprehensible government party SV uses all the means to run over the government partners and get its policy through. I can hardly imagine a greater contrast to the reality description Right tournament earlier today. Then the attacks on SV were that we did not have an impact on the government. I thank the representative, Bakke Jensen, for the confidence in SV's impact on the natural field, but I can assure the representative that the accusations of contempt for local democracy are highly reciprocal. I experience it as a bit provocative all the time to hear the Right draw out the local democracy. I myself have been in municipal government and in county councils, and I have seen the effect of right-wing policy. It is not a policy that is good for community and local democracy. The sale of public property weakens local democracy. The local economy that the Right implemented when they were in government cannot exactly be said to be a blow to the room for action of local democracy. On the contrary, it testifies to distrust. The will of the Right had last been put in government to force municipalities to join forces is difficult to reconcile with the concept of local democracy. The massive privatisation of schools, to which the Right provided, with a funding system that in many cases rewarded private schools with more money per student than what the public could offer, does not exactly testify to the confidence of local democracy. Right should tone down his highness in the field of local democracy a little. For there are many in this room who have personally experienced the consequences of the Right's policy in practice in local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1304	Motor travel in the field is a matter that we had many times for treatment in this room in the previous period. It was probably primarily because the government went high on the track to get new grips on motor travel in the field. The grips proposed by the Directorate of Nature Management, we might have to say was not that successful when we now see what the government is doing to them. A great many of them were put in a drawer. This can be due to the fact that the administration and, in part, the political system did not have enough knowledge of this – at least by a sense of self-determination for many people around Norway. This feeling of self-determination in relation to motor travel was not compatible with the various proposals from the Directorate and also partly from other political voices. The Christian People's Party has a balanced motor racing policy. We want restrictive policies on behalf of the environment, but we also want to facilitate the use of nature when it is compatible with the environment. I think we all deserve to have a balance point in these areas – to facilitate, but also to maintain. It's just through what we can be the good administrators that the voters have put us on behalf of the nation of Norway. In large and small municipalities, far from Oslo and near Oslo, this is the point of balance we have to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1312	The government's political platform states that the government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the outland. We will go through all the remaining questions and present to the Storting whether there is a need to change the legislation relating to motor travel in land. What, in my opinion, has created some of the debate is the misunderstanding that when the Directorate of Nature Management presents a point of view based on their best professional advice, it is identical to what the government might think. As I've been to the Stortinget before, I believe that we are the sovereign best served by the fact that the underlying wards present their views – based on their professional assessments of public lighting – and not that they are joint dogs to the government, which is presenting the government that has asked them to provide. That instruction has been sent to the National Antiquities Office, to the Directorate for Nature Management, to the State Pollution Control Office, etc. I would think that it should also be in Stortinget's interest, because then you get the best professional lighting of the various matters. Then it is up to the policy to deal with the compromises between different considerations. This is also what the government is doing to find a balance – to use Line Henriette Hämdal’s concept – between the professional assessments presented by the Directorate for Nature Management, from a natural point of view, and the many other considerations in this matter. Therefore, in June 2009, the government presented amendments to the national regulation for the use of motor vehicles in the field. The changes opened up for outdoor activity, they opened up access to group trips with snowmobiles for disabled people and others, and they were in favour of measures to reduce the risk of wild driving. It was also made clear that no changes would be made to the legislation on the use of snowmobiles between motorway and cab which is more than 2.5 km from the broken highway. At the same time as dealing with regulatory changes, we decided that no changes should be made to the use of motor vehicles on snow-covered land in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. What is the position of the government could not have been better expressed than the Christian People's Party stated here, namely, that there must be a balance between different considerations. I have to say that I am concerned about the trend we have seen for a long time in the Advancement Party, but which now seems to be a trend in the Right too, namely that on a case-by-case basis you should follow those who shout the highest in every case. It's not always the case that a minority that shouts out loud is expressing what the majority of the population wants. In the case of snowmobile driving, we know that a clear majority – and then we are not talking about caffè latte-drinking people on Grünerløkka or Frogner, but a clear majority in District Norway – believe that we should maintain today's legislation or have a more restrictive legislation. So it's not coverage to say that those who call for the highest free-motorized movement in the outland are a representative sample of District Norway. I'm worried that we're in a position where those who shout loudest should be the ones to which it's most listened – instead, as I've said here several times, the silent majority. The tame majority agrees with the Stortinget and the government's predatory policy, and the tame majority – including the tame majority in District Norway – agrees with the Stortinget and the government's motorcycling policy. We need to balance different considerations, and then we get ample opportunity to get back to what Erling Sande was up to, that is, what the law on recreational driving should be. I just have to say in the end – a little bit in the extension of the first debate – that we should be careful in Stortinget to divide the population into two groups and appeal to DistrictNorway towards the cities when one thing is up, and then next time send some other representatives from the same parties to appeal to the cities towards the districts immediately another case is up. Using these things to play on negative attitudes towards people who happen to live in cities – I would especially like to remind you that they have a lot of voters living in cities. People living in Oslo, in Hamar and in Tromsø are also justified in snowmobile policy, just as people in District Norway are justified in the question of Bjørvika or what kind of opera we should have, or other questions in Oslo. We are one country, and everyone is justified in terms of each other. We shall not appeal to prejudices in District Norway against the cities when we have one type of debate, and prejudices against District Norway against people in the cities when we have other types of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1328	It is rare that I experience a post from a council that is so little relevant to what we are discussing, when he invokes the silent majority and blah, blah, blah. Such majority representations are reflected in elections. I don't understand what the council fears, if he actually believes that the vast majority of the Norwegian people want a restrictive snowmobile policy, by delegating this to the municipalities where the Norwegian people live and can influence in elections what kind of politicians they choose. What I'm going to challenge him on anyway is a little bit of what is stated in the comments of an overall committee, where even the red-green parties say it's important to get a final clarification on future legislation, and that it's going to be put in place quickly. Then is my question to the Council of State: how does he interpret the word ‘rapid’ in this context? Can we expect this to come into place before local elections in 2011, to be reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1335	Yes, it can be expected that it will be put in place in the big year defined that way, i.e. before the local elections in 2011. You can expect that, but otherwise I won't go into any particular date for that. I just want to remind you that it's not like we're without legislation, and it's not like there's no snowmobile driving in District Norway. This is going on for the whole winter; I myself have driven snowmobiles in winter. It is going on, and the government has clarified most of the issues that were involved. I can repeat what I said, but it gets a little boring. So we've clarified the rules for out-of-lands business, we've clarified the question of group trips, we've taken initiatives in the field of out-landing, we've clarified the question of driving to cabins within two and a half kilometers of unbroken road. So we've solved most of the questions. The only question of some extent remains is the question of recreation driving, and we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1340	Once again we see an example of the government's paralysis of action, unfortunately. Right will make it quite clear that we do not want a cowboy policy in this matter with the free flow of scooter driving, but there is a need for clarification. The Council of State, which once represented the South-Trundellag, knows how important this matter is. At Røros, in Selbu, in Holtålen, this matter means an incredible amount. All over the country you want a clarification from the government in this matter. That's why the government has to make a clarification as soon as possible, and let's call a spade for a spade. Can the Council of State answer: Is there the very great division between the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that makes it impossible to present a change in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1345	First of all, as I did before, I strongly reject the fact that we have a paralytic government. We have the most active government in the environment that Norway has ever had, and we have a list of things we've done in the environmental field, which the Bondevik government would be muted by envy, if they had known about it at that time. On this one issue, I have also said that we have clarified the policy in almost all areas in the snowmobile sector. Snowmobiles are currently operating in Norway. People are running snowmobiles all the places that were mentioned here. The only question of importance that we will come back to is the question of recreation driving. I think the difficult thing there is exactly what Line Henriette Hemdal pointed to, that we need a balance between the desire that someone has to get out quickly and efficiently into the nature of snowmobiles, and the desire that many others have, that nature should also be a place where one can experience silence and tranquillity and not be plagued with unnecessary snowmobile rides.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1352	I was a little provoked by the voiced silence majority of the Council of State, at least in some municipalities. To give an example, in Åsne's municipality, they said yes to start a snowmobile trail – a short link, but for the company that was looking for it would mean a lot, and people were involved. The municipality says yes, just go ahead, while the county states no, according to the paragraphs that exist. Does the Council of State think this is the proper treatment of local democracy that wants snowmobile driving in the form of nutrition?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1357	I do not know this matter in Åsnes and ask respect for the fact that I cannot comment on it on the kick. But I'm trying to get the attention of the Storting on the fact that it's dangerous if the politicians always keep going after the groups that speak the highest. The groups that speak the highest are not always representative of the large majority. Now Snorre Serigstad Valen proved here that there is very good data to say that a large majority also in District Norway believes that today's legislation is good. A large majority believe that there should be strict rules in this area. And then we're going to look at just how we're going to design them, but it's not like a large majority wants a total release in this area, either in cities or in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1362	I want to say that it's really dangerous when a government starts using the silent majority when you've really asked about things that don't concern people, and that you really don't know the answer to. In connection with the barrage message, I think you were asked something like, are you too wild as long as you know they're at least 20 km away? That means you're not really engaged, of course it does, and you see big changes in attitudes when the problem gets closer to you. There are many ways to bypass the truth, and statistics and polls are one of them. But the real question is, does the Council of State really think that local local government is running over the tame majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1367	A large majority in District Norway declare in the opinions expressed in this area that there can be no total release in this area, but should have either current legislation or stricter legislation. That doesn't mean they're sitting with the only fasit, the one truth, but I assume that the representative Gundersen doesn't agree that it's just those who want to be allowed to run snowmobiles right when they want to, we're going to listen to. We also need to have the opportunity to listen to the many people in the county of Norway who want to be able to go on a ski tour without being disturbed too much, who don't want there to be a lot of trouble up on the shore when you go skiing. This is a large number of people with different opinions. Fortunately, we got something that I think was a very good post from the Right in the South-Trundelag, namely that the Right wants to balance the different views against each other and find out something that is in everyone's interest. That's government policy, too, but I'm recording that Gundersen is always in line with those who shout loudest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1374	No, I'm not. I stand clearly behind the representative of Hofstad Helleland. I've often pointed out that it's going to happen in sensible, regulated ways. But I also have to say that it is strange that you saw to those degrees that local democracy can actually manage this in a very good way. Because that's what we're talking about – that you can get the opportunity locally to do, for example. a snowmobile joint. The example that Bredvold was out with is pretty good. It's not just that the county has reacted to a rejection. He has responded to a newspaper essay where the municipality indicated that you would go for a trail that goes a few miles to get into Sweden. The Countess then wrote letters to Åsnes that he would change the decision if Åsnes made such a decision. That's what I call the over-control of local self-government. There is no doubt that there is a large majority in Åsnes for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1384	I record that the representative Gundersen says he wants a balance. He says he wants balance in predatory policy. He says he wants balance in snowmobile policy. But every time there are questions in the Storting, every time the representative Gundersen takes the floor here, it is not to create a balance, but in order to be free to – freely to reduce predatory stocks far beyond what the Right once agreed with the Storting, and which I believe Right's management still agrees, but to which the representative Gundersen always asks critical questions. The same thing in this area: if the Right wants a balance in this area – between the legitimate desire to be able to run scooters and the other legitimate desire to be able to experience peace and quiet in nature – we can have a dialogue. If what Gundersen wants, it's just clear out, and in a slightly populist way, every time yelling at those who scream loudest, it's hard to have dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1391	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1396	I don't think this is about letting go of everything. I don't think it's about getting everything out of hand, as the council says. It's about controlled forms. Today's debate on the new law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses is about a major and important matter. It's about nature, nature's possibilities and how we humans can use them in a sensible way for the benefit of everyone. It's about recreational opportunities, it's about moving people or goods from a to b, it's about district policy, and it's about tourism and travel, and it's about business opportunities in general. I would like to say it so strongly that for some districts, among others. parts of Hedmark, a softer and more sensible law on motor travel, as the Progress Party will have, will make districts grow and the quality of life flourish. It's not that we want people to drive like fools, but in order, approved lines, or leader, as it's called. Today, the districts are struggling with relocation, evaporation, a meager business and otherwise not too much to suggest too much optimism. Today, Sweden in particular, but also Finland, is making a significant contribution to our strict rules on motor travel. Very many with this interest enter these two countries to drive. They have friends and family with them, rent themselves into a cabin, a hotel or the like, buy all the services and spend a lot of money. This is money that our travel operators and other traders in Norway had sorely needed. With a long and cold winter, how many accommodation and tourist sites must close, or at least permit their employees, it could offer snowmobile rides in some form be gold worth. An example of how the law works is how the county council in Hedmark converted a positive decision in Åsne's municipality to allow Dæsbecken Vildmarkssenter to develop a snowmobile joint. This is a local enterprise that has developed positively over many years and wants to provide even better services, as well as boost employment, by providing snowmobile services. The municipality of Åsne says yes, but the county council, as I said, says no, according to national regulation § 5, first paragraph, point (d). It is not easy to understand this, nor does any of the decisions made here by the county increase the desire of industry to try to develop. It is disappointing that the government, with the Center Party and the Workers' Party, has not wanted to contribute to an embellishment of the importance of motor travel. That SV does not want it is no surprise, but with so many district representatives it should be thought that it is not just the Advance Party and the Right who want such a decoration. This is proof of the need to have a good regional and industrial policy, it is the Progress Party that has the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1409	I think it is good that it is decided for everyone that today's legislation is not adapted to the current situation. Although the Council of State points to several things that have been taken into account, at least my perception and my feedback from the local communities is that today's legislation is not adapted to the current situation. We have a law. Many feel that there is no balance in today’s law. That's what's the challenge, and we're not talking about total release. I understand very well that it has taken a long time for the government to deal with this matter, because with the starting point that one had, to tighten up, it becomes almost impossible to agree on a solution that can safeguard the interests of the different districts. I can't understand how they were going to do it, and that's exactly what is the intention in the Right's proposal in this case. I have to say that there are a few things where there has been so much commitment from both sides -- if we're going to call it -- that have had the same conclusion: here we don't need the strict national leadership, but we need the opportunity to decide it locally. One municipality will drop out of one thing, because they need it, and tighten up on the other – another municipality just the opposite, depending on their challenges, whether it's agriculture and outdoors, whether it's travel life – or what it might be. It will be impossible to maintain in strict national leadership. I wonder what it is that makes the Council of State so terrified of this local autonomy. I see that the locals will take care of nature, they will look at the reality around them, and they will be restrictive, no matter who has the political majority in that municipality. Finally, I would just like to say a parallel story: as rapporteur in Grimstad, I agreed to propose that a course be set for personal watercraft. It's one of the same issues: Do the others interfere? Is there a lot of noise, etc.? The NRK was going to make a report about it and got a lot of trouble when they were going to film, because the accompanying boat they were sitting in made much more noise than the scooter they were going to make a report about. I feel that part of the claims in this case are in the same class. I hope that the Council of State will look again at how one can adapt to a local, sensible government, and facilitate the business that concerns not least snowmobiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1426	This is a case that has been a repetition in this room, at least since I entered the Stortinget in 1997. One has, in reality, come equally far – or equally short. I've heard a lot of state councils stand on this pulpit and debate this matter, but I've never heard – never been close to hearing – a state council that has made such an article, without substance, as we've heard today. In this case, there has been superficial carnival talk from the Council of State. He doesn't go into what's the theme, but he comes up with swollen and strange formulations. You refer to the silent majority and take it to income because you agree with the government. I think the silent majority sits at home and has given up, sits at home and shakes their heads, for how many times do you need to hear an argument, after this? Governments refer to polls. Are there polls that form the basis of government policy? We in the Progress Party are criticized for – I kept saying – taking the word and defending those who shout loudest. No, we don't. We've been meaning the same thing since I got into the Storting in 1997, and long before that time. A group that often shouts quite loudly, and they must be allowed to do so, are Norwegian farmers in terms of farming, and so we are not in the group that comes constantly after them with more money. So I think it's -- I don't know, President, if it's allowed to say it -- a very bad way the Council of State argues. I must say that I am quite, quite upset when I hear it in this matter. There has also been some criticism of the Right in this matter. I think that's quite correct, because the Right has swung after where the wind has blown. When the Right is in opposition, they're followers of changing the law. When the Right has been in position, they have been in government, they have not lifted a finger to get anything done. That someone criticises the Right – and Snorre Serigstad Valen does – I actually think I'm completely in place. Snorre Serigstad Valen also indicated that it was 40 p.m. which was contrary to a decoration of the law. Then maybe there's also a certain percentage that is for changing the law. I'm not going to lecture the SV representative in that way. It is a party I miss in this debate, and it is the Central Party. I've been running a lot of election campaigns against the Center Party, and there's no way of strong voice usage and strong reasoning when they in the election campaign tell them to change the law. But when there's a debate in this room, there's only one post coming from the Central Party. Where's the rest of the Center Party big group?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1439	I actually took the floor because I think it's a little sad that we're going to have a debate where we're trying to put each other in booths that we're not in. I've never been in that booth that there should be full release. I have spoken about the need for sound local administration, where there is an opportunity for certain leaders to be given, and is therefore fully in line with what the Right has proposed, and also the representative of Hofstad Helleland in the past said. I am also reasonably sure that strong state overgovernment creates illegal driving and creates demise. This makes you distance yourself from what is the objective of a law. It should perhaps begin to realize as soon as possible. I believe that giving trust and responsibility to the local government will result in a very sound policy on this, which is also locally adapted, in the way Harberg said so well. Then it came to a couple of other things. The representative of Korsberg was critical to the Right. It was Børge Brende who started the test system. He could not complete it, so he could see the results of it. But it's obvious that it's the first step towards proving that you get exactly the effects you want to place the responsibility here. So that criticism seems to me to go far beyond goals. What Børge Brende did was actually to do it the way we in the right like it. We like to try to document how the policy we want to pursue works. We've got that in retrospect. After Børge Burnde left, we got the results. This means that we are fighting for a different policy. Now I see that Frank Bakke Jensen has come back to the hall. I had actually promised that I would defend him a little too, since he was in here and now talking about motorized travel in the outland. The representative Serigstad Valen was a little concerned that Bakke Jensen had attacked SV for having too much penetration. But there's a very big difference between penetration and deferral coverage. Now you just have an impact on postponing any change in policy, and I see that as something other than a strong impact on the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1450	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. The President will propose that this meeting continue until matters are resolved. 4 and 5 are closed – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1453	Right-wing fears that this case will be trained until 2013, even though the Council of State is desperate to produce it as something else. And it's not right either – as I see it – that it's just recreational driving it's fighting. There are also several aspects to this matter that need to be clarified. I will nevertheless commend the Council of State for one thing: I am very pleased that the Council of State has thrown away the proposal from DN right in the garbage where it belongs. For if a national regulation were carried in the pen by bureaucrats who have barely seen a scooter before, the new law would lose all its credibility. What is now the challenge is to find reasonable balances, where different considerations reflect the local reality around in District Norway. Everyone – or at least most – agrees that different considerations need to be taken into account, both in terms of nature and the environment, and to balance the practical benefits of snowmobiles. I am therefore very surprised that the Council of State from this pulpit suspects the opposition's motives in this matter, namely that there are strong lobbyists who are behind our commitment. To the orientation of the Council of State: this is not at all true. If there is one thing I have received many enquiries about in the time I have been sitting on Stortinget, it is precisely this case. It's because people out there don't understand what's going on. And that's no wonder, because the people of the Central Party are travelling all over the country telling the government to do something about this case, we're going to liberalize the law, we're going to simplify, we're going to give more power to the municipalities. So SV's people travel around the country and say that here there is a more restrictive policy to be taken into account, and that the proposal from DN is very good. It's not nice that people get confused. People out there, people around in District Norway, want a clarification, yes, they expect a clarification. I think it's embarrassing that there's no answer. Government parties cannot continue to deal with people in this way. Now it is time they said clearly from what they intend to do in this case. Then you better be honest. If it's so that it's completely impossible for the Center Party and SV to come to an agreement, you'd better say it, instead of keeping people fooled like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1466	To the last speaker, I can only show you what's in the setting, i.e. that we want a clarification as fast as possible, including the recreational run and the possibility of it after fixed ladders, fixed tracks. That is the question that hangs on again and that there have been some discussions around. Then I must remind you that, after all, there has been a liberalisation of the legislation through the regulatory changes that have been made during this period. I took the floor because the Progress Party – it was Bredvold – wondered if the Centre Party and the Labour Party could be involved in the so-called SV policy. I can say that for the Workers' Party, we look forward to a final clarification of what must be unsolved. For the Workers' Party, there is – as has been pointed out by many – a balancing between taking care of the possibility of an open-air life in peace and quiet and taking care of flora and fauna and, not least, taking into account nature when it comes to running goods on bareland. I have a story there. I have been very open-air, but at the same time I have run a lot of snowmobiles, because I have worked for many years on a clay ball in the mountains and had to run up snowmobiles early in the morning, so that we could get Danish out of here. But what's kind of polite is that then I saw the animals. It's strange how the hare and fox and others adapt to the engine sound rather than the human smell. There's always a question of common sense here, and that's what we have to figure out in this context. The Labour Party is absolutely committed to pointing out the effort that has been made, and as the evaluation shows, it has been very good. So here the municipalities – I believe – have their responsibility consciously. As has been pointed out before, a person may have practiced it in a slightly different way, because they have different needs. But the big conclusion is that this has actually prevented more illegal running. Here, a more controlled motor movement has been achieved largely across the board. So my starting point is – and it's actually true in what the Council of State writes to the Storting – that it's one of the most important reasons to come back with a case on this, at least a change in the legislation that it might need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1479	It is always a little challenging when you have 11 mandates in the Grand Duchy and are challenged by political opponents that you have too few to participate in the debates. It is that with a few mandates, there is a few people who have the opportunity to participate in the debates, and I thought the Progress Party was familiar with that. If the Progress Party were to want more central party people on the Stortinget, the next chance at the 2013 elections is. So, where does the Center Party have ours? Yes, we have clearly worked in the government with many of the questions that have related to motor travel in the outland. In fact, the Centre Party has received good feedback on the job that has been done both in relation to the running of the business in the field, which has been a major theme, one of which has been given important clarifications through regulation, running under the direction of voluntary organisations, it is the disabled, the elderly or others, who have wished to have group tours out into nature, and the necessary running in the direction of municipalities, as I mentioned in my main post. So here's a bunch of things going on. I'm starting to ask myself which representative Hofstad Helleland has been, when she says that nothing has happened. There have been a number of clarifications. But then it's absolutely right that it says that important clarifications on recreation. We're certain that these clarifications must come, and they must come quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1486	Now I had to jump to here and now, so unfortunately I haven't heard the Council's response. But I'm almost willing to take a blind test that I know what he said, so it'll be fine! It is very often a pure snowmobile debate. It's because that case is in the law, but it's also a little bit important to come back to that there's an important aspect here, and that's the local democracy. As rapporteur, I have had the pleasure of opening up Varangerhalvøya National Park together with the Council of State. I want to remind the Council of State of that opening. If the national park is to get the value that we discussed it should get, and if it is to be so valuable to Norway, to Finnmark, to East Finland and to the people around and in the national park, it is important that the population feels that this is something that is theirs, this is something that we have been helped to influence, this is something that we have been allowed to work with. The policy pursued by the Council of State tends to paint the picture of national parks, but in practice it is impossible to involve the local population in such projects. That is what is the important local democratic perspective. It is important to shift power down when it is clear that that power can be managed by the local politicians present. That's when you create commitment. That's when you create accountability. I was born and raised in Båtsfjord. I'm the fourth generation. It is no longer back than to my grandfather – they called him the fox when he got heart failure and couldn't calm fishing. Then he had to support the family by hunting. The fox they called him because he went out and they never knew when he came back. But he got food for the house. I have a very close relationship with nature up there. I don't think that desk people and bureaucrats are going to tell me that my perception of what nature protection is, and what nature is, is wrong, that it's a wrong attitude. This is about love for nature. It's about nature and culture. It's about knowledge. And it's about local politicians being fully capable of taking responsibility for these things. That's what's the message. The way this matter has been dealt with in the government, is reprehensible, for it only captivates the tamps of local democracy. I don't think you should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1502	Then is the last recorded speaker Snorre Serigstad Valen. The President would draw attention to the fact that the prerequisite for continuing this meeting beyond the regulatory period was that there were two speakers on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1507	Thank you, President! I just couldn't let it pass: the representative of Hofstad Helleland now illustrated very well at the end of the debate why there should be limited listening to the Right in this matter. The conspiracy rhetoric peaks when it is suggested that the government is training a case for the sake of the training. The representative may not have come to the conclusion that the Committee has requested a rapid clarification. That's understandable. But less understandable is the practice of the representative of Hofstad Helleland in campaigning against public trade unions. During the weekend, we could see Hofstad Greece demanding the resignation of the gender equality Ombudsman because, like very many others, the Ombudsman did not understand particularly the recently adopted equality policy of the Right. In the past, the Right in its Alternative State Budget has proposed such a massive cut in the DN budget that it might qualify for the concept of slaughter. The representative of Hofstad Helleland has also strongly supported this in public bodies. Therefore, it may be more understandable, but not less sad, when the representative Hofstad Helleland mentions DN’s recommendations as being worth-for-all, and mentions DN’s employees in terms of contempt of the type: they have never seen a close-up scooter, supplemented by ‘desktop’ labels from other Right Representatives. It only illustrates the Right's lack of serious arguments in this case. In conclusion, I would just urge the representative of Hofstad Helleland to look himself in the mirror before she accuses the Minister of making desperate arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1518	Then the last recorded speaker is Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1521	Thank you, President! In respect for the time of day, I shall make a somewhat more moderate post than I had intended originally. This case has two things in common with the INNON case, which we discussed earlier today. One is that Børge Brende has a significant share of the blame for our getting to where we came from. The second is that we are actually discussing another line on a map. We do not discuss whether motor travel itself is a threat to natural diversity. We're discussing, as there's a significant majority in this room that thinks, it's best if the Stortinget and the administration have to decide where and when to run snowmobiles. Those of us who haven't just sat behind a desk -- many of us do that significant part of the day, but many of us have been out in the woods and in the mountains too -- know that in the municipalities that have local government today, you only run snowmobiles where the environmental authorities locally and nationally have said that it's okay to run snowmobiles, but unfortunately it's that in other parts of the country you don't. Then you run snowmobiles for a lot in areas where you probably shouldn't have driven snowmobiles. That's the thing. This is, once again, a line on a map, and there are no significant environmental arguments against introducing local administration. I'm a little worried when the Council of State assumes that you've made the changes that you're about to make, because what you've thought about making changes, doesn't include local administration. It doesn't include being able to open up tourist loops, ice fishing loops and that kind of thing. Then I believe that one is far from the rhetoric that has been used by part of the red-green politicians in this room in the last four to five years, that one should open up to the municipality itself to decide where and when to run snowmobiles. What you're actually doing is saying that there's a small number of cabin owners and landowners who are going to need to be allowed to drive snowmobiles in parts of the country, while people who want to drive snowmobiles, either to go on ice fishing, to visit the neighbor's cabin or simply because they want to take a trip in the free nature of our lords, are not going to get a chance to do that. Then I hope I was moderate enough in my performance. Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1536	Then there is absolutely the last recorded speaker, at least at the morning meeting, Change Skjervø.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1539	I believe that municipal politicians must be able to decide whether to open up the use of motorised vehicles in the municipalities. Today, it is such that municipal politicians are, in effect, deprived of the opportunity to decide this. Then I heard that the council today stated that the silent majority supports his policy, both predatory and snowmobile policy, and he obviously does not see the need for a change in course. I think everyone should have the opportunity to use nature without having to be afraid, without fear of predators choosing to move from the districts. I hope and believe that it must be in Norway that you can walk out of the door in your home and not feel afraid that someone will come and take one. Unfortunately, large areas in the North-Tronde Team are about fallow as a result of the failed predatory policy. And then I'm very provoked that the so-called silent majority supports today's predatory policy. There are large natural areas that are currently inaccessible to most people. Opening up some of these areas can be made available by using snowmobiles, will be positive for everyone, not least it will be positive for, among other things. disabled people, who do not get out today. I want local authorities to decide whether snowmobiles can be used and to what extent other vehicles can be used, for example. Belt carriages, in the field. I want to liberalise the legislation, but I do not want an uncritical driving to be allowed. I do not believe that the proposals of the Progress Party are in order either. However, it is suggested that the municipalities themselves should manage this. Yes, that's precisely because you believe in local democracy, precisely because it's the local people who are the best people to take care of this discretion. In a country as long as Norway with large areas that are not populated, we have good and many prerequisites for developing, among other things. snowmobile loop-related tourism without conflict with other tourism or outdoor life. On the day that the boat owners in Oslo Earth start to relax to get to the cabins, we can take on the skis in the districts and go to the cabin.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1554	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3263]] So let's start with case number. 6th@item: inlistbox - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1588	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1597	The issue we are now dealing with concerns changes in the law on natural diversity and the law on wildlife, the so-called emergency protection provision and the provision on the use of bait. Emergency workers have been a subject of discussion for several rounds of time, and it has been necessary in the past to make changes to the provision in order to avoid confusion as to the situations in which it is actually possible to rely on emergency measures. Until today’s wording was adopted, there was a legal status that opened the way for the killing of game under direct attack on buff and tamrein – that is, the formulation you have today. But until you got it, you had a law that opened for killing to a far greater extent than what was desirable. In principle, all predators near grazing could then be killed by reference to the emergency protection provision. So today's wording is the result of a tightening that was done in 1993 to clarify legal status. It was a ambiguity that, among other things, was referred to by the Court of Justice. When a proposition is promoted where the intention is to liberalise the emergency response, it is as one of several measures to reduce the extent of damage to buff and tamrein. The stock situation of some predatory species is now such that the threshold can be lowered, and liberalisation is taking place in order to improve the safety and protection of individual farmers and farmers. At the same time, it is important that this happens in such a way that we avoid the uncertainties that we had before the law was tightened in 1993. The main thrust of the proposal is that if for a three-year period the stock of yerv, gaupe and bear is clearly above the target set by the Stortinge, access to traps should be extended. In this case, killing can take place in order to remove an immediate and significant risk of injury to buffs, tamrein and pigs, as opposed to the current provision that it can only be common under direct attack. If the stock targets are clearly below for a three-year period, access is tightened again. In the case of bears, a transitional arrangement is established to extend the penitentiary access for the first time. There are many who have been concerned about whether the provision will be applicable to people when they are out – understandably enough. Some have tried to present it as if this new provision had to be entered on the web pages of the Directorate for Nature Management and almost check the stock situation day by day before going out. I think it's right to point out that we're talking about three years here. The stock figures for you and gaupe have been clearly above the stock targets for a long time, and there is a stable situation. So what people have to deal with after today's decision is that there's going to be a lower threshold to kill you and gloat, because there's a lot of them. They can be shot before it's a direct attack. So there have been hearings that have been concerned in the consultation round with the fact that the emergency provision should be written over the same reading as the emergency provision for the person. It is also understandable in itself, and the wording proposed in the proposal is therefore adapted and well on the way, consistent with the provision of emergency protection for persons. But there is still a slightly further way to kill when a person is at risk from when, for example. a sheep is in danger, and I think most of them think it's completely natural. Issues have been raised as to whether this liberalisation involves effective liberalisation, including: by reference to the so-called pig-bing case, in which the High Court has interpreted today's provision in the liberalising direction. As a result, the Committee has sent questions to the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, which concludes that there is actual liberalisation in today's decision. It also provides for extended access to trap predators, regardless of their species, located within predator-proof enclosures. That's what we think is right, and it can also stimulate that more people choose to set up such fences. That would be good. The question of giving access to killing in emergency shelters for the protection of dogs is not included in this bill. There is also a question that many people are concerned about, and we have no problem understanding it. We have also seen the experience in Sweden following the emergency testing scheme for dogs, where they have chosen to make this a permanent scheme. So we look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget as soon as possible with a matter of need for dogs. The proposal also provides for the right to regulate and also prohibit the use of bait for hunting, fishing and killing purposes. The use of bait may in some cases be appropriate during hunting, but I think there are few who want a development where it becomes common to put out bait, for example. in relation to phototourism. Then we can quickly have a situation where large predators are beginning to become accustomed to human activity, and develop an unnatural behavior that can potentially be dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1620	The change in the laws of nature and wildlife, including the necessity and use of bait, had one purpose: to amend the emergency legislation and clarify the legal status and to liberalise the emergency legislation. The party for progress simply cannot see that the new proposal meets this intention, but rather it is exacerbating it. As it appears, to many people it has become a theoretical-academic exercise for particularly interested people. The word ‘immediately’ and the definition of it and of ‘significant’ are shown as an example. Nor does the League of Bonds appear to be a warm defender of the plural position, and we refer in that context to the notes of the League of Bonds to the Committee of 22 March 2010. The USS, the Association of the Utmark municipalities, is also very critical of the formulations. When, in letters to the Council of State, the Committee on Energy and the Environment asks whether this is a real liberalisation, it shows that the wording is such – or perhaps one can say nature – that it is not for people the most to understand. So this we can't possibly light up with. And we all know that if a pet owner comes up in an emergency situation that requires action, there's little room to call a lawyer to see if the situation is in the emergency interpretation or not. The current government hold on active livestock and predatory animals within the same geographical areas has been shown to be impracticable. Domestic animals become prey. The government's belief in preventive and anti-conflict measures is difficult to transfer to the wolf, bear, yurt and yurt in search of food, and the number of eligible substitutes is now approaching record height of 55,000. Yes, when we can read in the media that even the bishops no beg for the livestock, it must ring a bell – or a bell, whatever. But then it must also be said that the authorities have repeatedly defined their willingness to grant permission to trap pests. But even where the field industries fail too much, it is claimed. One is too slow to give birthrights, and when one finally gets it, it becomes a very time-consuming and costly tracking. This needs to be improved, and it should not be too demanding, in the light of the damage and suffering caused by predators. Then there are many who refer to the stock situation and the possibility of killing in an emergency. With stock targets as the main parameter, a transitional arrangement will be created to extend access to emergency killing. But it only comes into force - I only underline - when the destination is reached. But this applies to e.g. not for ourselves. And then the plural specifies that the purpose is to help create a greater degree of security for the livestock owners. It's almost as if you don't believe a lesson. The Party of Progress will point out that emergency protection is never meant to be part of the active stock management of large predators and that legislative decisions must therefore be made independent of the current stock situation of each predator species. At meetings that I have had with foreign municipalities and businessmen as well as private individuals, the rage and frustration of not being listened to is all too obvious. The possibility of dwelling on what nature has to give, and the framework and the room for opportunity one is given, simply does not go together. Those who live in predatory areas and draw their income from nature-based industries experience the pressure from predators as a threat to their way of life, while the protection interests of my people's way of life must give way to their predators' place in nature. Let me just say right away that our sympathy is on the side of the local industry and the livestock. We have to provide enough framework conditions for those who are trying to maintain a living in District Norway. The centralization current is strong enough as it is. Today's regime with population sharing on predatory game is for the longest pass, the sufferings of the buffalo and the legitimacy of the predatory game are forging an up-to-date and emerging management regime. Finally, a few words about eating. The party of progress has no faith in legal regulation as a tool for the use of bait. The party of progress believes that the use of game feeding and feeding is already well regulated, and that the area has better information and guidance than legal rules. It should also be assessed against the possibilities that it is to test/check whether, for example, it is a laid out bait or animal cadaver that is still there for natural reasons. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1650	The representative Oskar Jarle Grimstad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1653	Robbery policy and its enforcement are enormously conflict-making. We see that almost daily in both the media and otherwise. Rightly, the policy of robbery is based on a fundamental principle, with respect for individuals and communities, and respect for the right of ownership and full compensation for the rights lost. In addition, the Right would like to have a local administration, and not centralized by a bureaucracy removed from where the problems are and at a great distance from the ones that are involved. The Committee's comments on the 2004 report on wild game are as follows: ‘The Committee considers that the quality of life and housing and the development of nutrition in rural areas must be taken into account in the management of predators. In the view of the Committee, management must be carried out in a way that creates confidence between the local population and regional and central authorities.’.» These are wise words. In contrast to the Directorate for Nature Management and Red-Green Politicians, the Right has respect for the communities that actually have to live under the burden of predatory game, and that lose a wide range of land rights and opportunities, including: the farmer's pasturage. It's frightening to see that we have a management that ignores many of the Biggest leaders, apart from the stockpiles, and that she runs both politics and pronounces herself as if she were a political body. Right-wing argues that necessity should not be part of the active stock management of large predators and that the law must therefore be made independent of the stock situation of each predator species. Right also means that in general it must be opened for the killing of you, gloep, bear and wolf when the killing is assessed as being required to remove a current and significant risk of damage to the buff, tamre and pig. Right-wing meaning, unlike the government, that the emergency warrant must apply to access to kill in emergency by attacking also from the wolf. It is strange to see the open-mindedness that is in the government in this area as well. In the evening post last week, we could read that State Secretary Heidi Sørensen says that the threshold for taking out pests is already low, while Minister of Agriculture Breck says that the wording of Soria Moria II is a clear signal that the threshold should be lowered. State councils say there should be the possibility of shooting wolves as an attack dog. This option is not available. The government's management of this matter is approaching a parody. The primary objective of an extended emergency shelter decision is to contribute to greater security for livestock owners. Unfortunately, the bill change proposal from the government did not meet this, and it is a mystery for me to register that even the Center Party defends such an attitude. Right also wants the emergency to apply to the dog. It is very disappointing to see that the red-green parties will postpone this issue again, and that they are still equally active in the predatory game policy. On the route between Halden and Trysil, more and more attacks and killings on dogs are reported. On Boke Red in Eastfold, a dog was killed by wolf homes on the tusk on the garden. It was the children of the family who found the dog. The wolf had passed by earlier in the day, and they had tried to scare him away. Yet the wolf came back and killed the dog. Many places can't hunt with a dog because of the danger of a wolf attack. This is also a good example of how many get damaged important dishes because of the wolf. On October 11, a moose dog was killed in Halden, 10 metres from the owner. He had shot and shot alerts to frighten the wolf. Yet the dog was killed. It is easy to understand the despair that the children and the family in Bokerød felt when they found the family dog's killer. Right wants people to be able to defend their four-legged family friends. In Norskog's hearing opinion, it is shown that the need for dogs is likely to have a minimal impact on the wolf population, since the dogs that are most exposed will be far from the owner. Nevertheless, it is very important that the hunter knows that he can react, and in Halden the life of the family dog could probably have our fears. The argument that dogs should be used as a pretext to trap wolves is hair-removing, in my view. It testifies to the loss of knowledge and the lack of real root. Those who want to act illegally use completely different methods. The most important means of obtaining respect for the laws is to show respect for the citizens who will live by these laws. Then we also have confidence in politicians and bureaucrats who are going to legislate and enforce a sensible management of our predatory game. Finally, I will present the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1692	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1695	It is a goal that we should have a viable stock of predators in Norway and that we should have good opportunities for safe farming of farm and grazing animals. This is an objective that is often perceived as contradictory, and it often leads to a caricious debate. We all have an interest in avoiding that, I think. What we depend on, on the contrary, is trust between farmers and the administration. It requires a good predatory management that takes into account the experience. This proposal contains a number of such proposals, which have been well explained by the rapporteur. It is not surprising, however, that the opposition is going straight into polemic mode, and in particular the Progress Party is making speeches where one would think that the aim was to liberalize access to trap predators in itself – that it is thus liberalisation that is the point here, and not that the administration is good and to live with it for all. Insurance from the Ministry of Justice in terms of interpretation of the law does not appear to play a special role in the Progress Party. Making the stock targets completely independent from the ability to trap e.g. wolf in distress, as the Progress Party talks about, is difficult to do in practice as long as there is a threatened species we are talking about. Small changes in output may have a significant impact on the population. International obligations require us to maintain such populations. It is easy for the Progress Party to ignore it, but it would be less wise for a responsible government to do so. I can't avoid commenting on the debate itself, because I ask myself the question, are we served with the warrior's right-hand mood? Thus, terms such as «hair-traveling», «knowledge-dissolve», «remains in reality» are used for a proposition that results in the liberalisation of the law. What does the Right want to achieve with that use of words? Are we served by big business politicians characterizing the employees of state agencies in every debate we've had in the Stortinget today: desktop people, caffè latte-people, never seen a scooter, never seen predators, never put their legs outside a city? Do we gain greater trust and legitimacy in the management of it? This is questioning the right side should have been asked before they enter the violent, polemic and caricatured mode, which, in my view, prevents a serious debate on predatory management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1704	In the Central Party, we are concerned that predatory policies should contribute to the development of housing and activity throughout the country. Roof game shall not impair the quality of life of its inhabitants. The use of the field is an environmentally friendly form of value creation, which is also important to maintain biological diversity. Norway needs active off-shore industries, both to have an agricultural activity throughout the country and to take care of the cultural landscape and to develop tourism as an important industry in the district of Norway. For many in our country, predatory policies are bloody serious. People have the experience of finding domestically sun-drenched or so badly injured that they have to be killed. Especially after bear attacks find a common sheep where the udder and other meaty parts of the body are torn off, while the injuries are not so great that the animal dies of it. A veterinarian need not be required to understand the suffering suffered by the animal following such an attack. Nor does one have to be a psychologist to understand that this makes a strong impression on those who own the animals and are obviously happy with their animals. Furthermore, it is easy to understand that parents become insecure when they have to let children out on a school path where children are observed daily for periods of time. I have great respect for people's desire to protect both themselves and their domestic animals. An effective breeding right is crucial for predatory management to have legitimacy among the local population in areas where there are both grazing animals and predatory game. That is why the Central Party has our proponents to liberalize the laws of the country in relation to what is the law of the day. We are aware that some people have asked questions about the extent to which the proposal we are discussing today involves liberalisation in relation to the practice of today's legislation. Let it be clear: there is no doubt that the government's objective is liberalisation. As the rapporteur said, the Central Party and the rest of the Committee took the initiative to ask the Ministry of Justice's law department to look at whether the new wording takes care of the government's intention of liberalisation, also against what is current case law. Their conclusion was ready. The proposal will imply, as they wrote, an extension of the need to trap you, gloat and bear in order to protect buffs, tambourines and pigs. If, however, the new law does not provide a basis for changing the case-law, we are of course forced to reopen the case in Stortinget. A central question is yet to be resolved, simply whether to include a dog in the drawdown section. The central party's vision is clear. We want a stronger nudity right also by taking a dog, and therefore we want a quick clarification of this question as well. We criticise the House today both from the Right Party and the Progress Party with regard to predatory policy and the Senter Party's position. I have to say that while the Progress Party has, after all, a solid line on this issue – it has meant the same thing – I cannot help but be very surprised by the behaviour of the Right in several of the debates in this Chamber. So here we have a completely different political stance from what they had just a few years ago, when they were in government, in areas such as nature protection, watercourse protection – which we have discussed before, and once again are going to discuss in this committee – and also coastal zones and predators. So when we negotiated the predatory settlement in this room, the Right wanted five more young bears. It was the Labour Party that negotiated down the number of predators, from what was right's starting point at that time, something like that. would lead to about fifty more bears than what we have today. Although both me and the Center Party like the Right's opposition position better than what's their government position, I think this is strange. But the fasitite here must be that we all put all the cloths to make sure that the right hand can just hold on to these positions, and thus get to continue in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1719	According to the Government, the proposed amendment to the emergency measure in the Nature Diversity Act is intended to clarify the legal status and to liberalise the emergency measure. The Christian People's Party cannot see that the new proposal meets this intention. This can be seen, inter alia, in: of the Bondelage’s note to the Committee of 22 March 2010, where they state that the wording of the bill is consistent with that of access to emergency services already under current law. The farm also refers to the so-called pig-bowl case, where it is clarified that ‘direct attack’ also includes cases where an attack is ‘immediately imminent’. The legislative proposal, as it stands, brings the law into line with current case-law and, in my view, is to a small extent to be regarded as a liberalisation. The Christian People's Party is a strong defender of the fact that we will still have room for the great predators in Norwegian nature. We must comply with our international obligations, and we must not shift responsibility for it to other countries. There are currently considerable differences between the sole proprietors of the foreign municipalities and the forest game management. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to put in place a piece of legislation that helps to legitimize predatory game management across the country. In the opinion of the Commission in 2004, the Committee stated: ‘Management must be carried out in a way that creates confidence between the local population and regional and central authorities.’ [[...]] It is precisely a core point of a good predatory policy, for a good predatory policy is neither on one side nor on the other side of the highly polarised debates that arise on this topic. A good predatory policy is to run an administration that balances the considerations of wisdom. It requires the ability to listen, it requires flexibility, and it requires a good understanding of those who are to manage this policy. To me, it is obvious that it is unwise to deal with this matter by the ministry and the government, when you end up with an emergency decision – which is a very sensitive theme in the predatory debate – and with such a complex and conflict-provoking principle as the final conclusion. The primary objective of an extended emergency protection provision is to contribute to greater security for livestock owners. Unfortunately, the legislative proposal by the government does not meet that. The government has made emergency claims conditional on the achievement of the stock target and the right to emergency claims is not exercised in relation to attacks by wolves. Nor have emergency workers been meant to be part of the active stock management of large predators. The legislation should therefore be made independent of the stock situation of each predator species. The Christian People's Party also believes that it must be opened for the killing of you, gloat, bear and wolf when killing is considered necessary to remove an immediate and significant risk of injury to buffoons, tambourines and pigs. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes, together with the Right, to make the right of emergency defence independent of the objective of survival and to give access to killing in distress by attack from the wolf. The key to predatory policies has been, is and will be to show the wisdom needed to balance the policies as best as possible – not so that everyone is satisfied, but so that we protect the predators in Norwegian nature in a way that is as much as possible to live with for those affected by the communities. It takes wisdom, but the conclusions that have been reached here are unfortunately not a good contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1748	It is gratifying that the Stortinge today deals with the bill on the use of bait and emergency food. Eighty has not played a central role in the debate so far. Let me just say that the government there will propose will be late at a wide consultation, so that there will be a rich opportunity for anyone who has views on the matter, to come with them, and then you can conclude on that question after this hearing. Our perception is that under given conditions, eating can pose a risk to both game, environment and in exceptional cases to people. We also get a number of new problems here, for example. are associated with the feeding of wild boar in Sweden. In the case of emergency workers, the legislative proposal implies that grazing users and owners of animals are given better opportunities to protect their animals from predatory attacks. The change in the law also gives new motivation to build predator-proof fences. Such fences are an effective and effective measure to prevent predatory wildlife damage, although of course they have other negative aspects. The provision proposed in the case of emergency workers involves the liberalisation of the killing access when the stock of yorks, gloats and bears has been clearly above the stock target over time. In addition, for bears, a transitional provision is proposed to ensure extended access to trap bears for the first time the stock target is reached. Since the stock of yews and yaws has been over the stock target over time, liberalisation will enter into force as soon as the amendment of the law has been adopted and the King has given the regulation on extended litter. The extended emergency protection provision will not cover wolves. However, although it appears to be approaching the stock target set by the Stortinget, the Norwegian wolf population is small and vulnerable, and small changes in the number of withdrawals can have a significant impact on reaching the stock target. There will be increased access to trap predatory game within predatory fences of any type. In the case of a dog, further work will be carried out on the question of whether to include it in the emergency protection provision. We will come back to that matter, inter alia. based on the experience of Sweden. This is a review of the matter here. But since both the Right Party and the Advance Party, as Snorre Serigstad Valen pointed out, uses tremendously strong words in this debate and has used them in previous debates, obviously under the principle of ‘weak arguments, turn up the volume’, and comes with one characteristic after the other of the government parties, I would just say that the dual game – possibly not a parliamentary expression – is conducted by the Right, with one policy in position and a completely different policy now in opposition, with one policy that one hopes to win votes in the countryside, and with one policy that one dares not at the moment to come to the National Assembly of the Federation of Nature, or where there are other positions, is little respectable. What is honorable is a party that has the same attitude whether you are in Engerdal or at the National Assembly of the Federation of Nature, whether you are in the city or in the city, whether you are in government or in opposition. But a party that has an adapted policy for each of these areas does not in the long run win the people's trust. I will now strongly encourage the Right to take a review to clarify what is the party's vision. If you have run so much after the Progress Party that you can hardly see the difference, or if you still see the traditional Right where taking care of nature was good conservative thinking, which was not least symbolized by Børge Burnde. In all the environmental debates I've been up to over the years, Right, if they've come to the defensive in an environmental debate, has said one thing: We had Børge Burnde, a strong, tough environmental protection minister who might not have achieved the big things when it was climate, but who did great things in the field of nature protection. All I have heard in this debate from the Right is a basic settlement with Børge Burnde. Tord Lien said it quite precisely that Børge Brende is the major problem in environmental policy from the point of view of the Progress Party, while the current Right is not in any way a similar problem for the Progress Party in environmental policy. Clearly, it is not possible to describe the slippage that has taken place by another political party. So now we've gone through one area after another. We also hear a lot of negative here about protection in general. After all, one of the big grips that Børge Burnde took was to revitalise the National Park Plan and start more protection in Norway. It had been lying and sleeping for a long time, but then Børge took it up again and made it a great and beautiful thing. It's one of those things that the right has been bragging off until now. But what we have now experienced in predatory policies, in beach zone policy, in non-interventional areas, shopping centres, in almost all areas, is that Right slips away from the Right we knew when the party was in government position with the Christian People's Party, and over to a party that is obviously preparing to rule with the Advance Party. It should be noted that all people in Norway who are concerned about nature protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1766	To the Council of State's question as to whether the 'double game' is a parliamentary expression, the President did not intend to charge it as unparliamentary. There is also no claim that the president necessarily thinks there is some glittering way to formulate himself. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1771	In the case of a newly elected representative, there appears to be a strange description by the Council of State of the Party. Especially I, as a newly elected representative, have seen that the Socialist Left Party has had one policy on the outside of this house and saw another policy on the inside of this house – just so it's easy. But it was Erling Sande who told them in many ways the provocative words during the now emergency debate, that if the case law proves not to give the desired liberalisation, we will get back to it again. The question then is: Is the Council comfortable with this type of trial and error law administration as described here by the representative of the central party and the chairperson of the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1780	Yeah, I'm 100 pst. comfortable with what Erling Sande says, both in this and in most other questions. Of course, the government should at all times be prepared to come back to the Storing if, on the basis of the decisions taken today, a practice arises that we cannot accept. I have to say that the cooperation that the Central Party and SV have had in the government position, for my part, is formidable. That doesn't mean that the two parties always agree. The SV and the Central Party come from different points of view and bring various themes into the debate. To take a very good example from today's debate: we have managed to find, of course also with the Workers' Party, a differentiated beach zone policy – there was something formerly bourgeois governments in Norway did not have – and that is a way of nudging the strict protection we need in the Oslo soil, with the much more liberal practices we have, for example. may have in the majority of the representative’s own home state, Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1787	I want to start by thanking the Council of States for a thorough presentation of the Right Policy. I would have hoped that the representatives of the Right could do it on their own. We have heard in today's debate that Erling Sande is looking forward to the liberalisation that the Senterpartie actually celebrated quite a lot already in the autumn of 2005 when they got into the Soria Moria statement that a dog was to be included in the emergency guard section. Now five years have passed, and now the red-green politicians insist that we have had a clear liberalisation of the emergency section, something that both the USS, the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' League and the League of Bonds disagree on, at least that it has gone a long way. So Snorre Serigstad Valen says that emergency workers cannot be executed in the case of wolves, because that would threaten the population. Is it such that, like Erling Sande, we should look forward to real liberalisation that also includes dogs, or should we listen to Snorre Serigstad Valen, who says it is not appropriate to include wolves in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1796	It's a little unclear to me if it was asked if wolf or dog, but leave it lying. Yes, this represents liberalisation, but liberalisation is possible because the government's policy has worked. We have a double objective in Norway, as I have said to the boring in Stortinget: we are going to have predators, and we are going to have grazing – a very difficult goal that very few countries have. But on the basis of that objective, predators have risen so that we have reached the stock targets for yerv and yerv, and thus it is possible to liberalize the emergency protection paragraph. Of course, if people are threatened, it is an absolute right of emergency. It's perfectly obvious. At the moment when a human being is threatened, all means can be used to protect himself from predators. In the case of a dog, as I have said, we will come back to it based on thorough investigations of, among other things, What is the experience from Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1803	The representative Lien has requested another line, and since in that case it will fill the line list, the president will allow it. If anyone's confused that the Progress Party is now getting two lines in a row, we've been trying from the presidency to suggest that this kind of live debate can be followed up immediately by those who had the first line. That's the explanation for that, and that's why Gundersen comes later. Lien, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1808	Thank you, I appreciate that. I note that the government's figure or the figure of the great majority, Sande, looks forward to a real liberalisation of the emergency army section, including for dogs. Now we know that there are a few extremely few attacks from the bear on the dog, but essentially the reason that the dog needs to be the subject of emergency measures, attacks from the wolf. Snorre Serigstad Valen says that emergency workers who include wolves cannot be executed. There are two statements that strongly contradict each other, and then you might want to think about it. But one of these is wrong. Either Erling Sande is wrong, who says he looks forward to a real inclusion in the emergency protection paragraph of the dog, or Snorre Serigstad Valen is wrong, because he says that there is no need for the wolf to be introduced. Which of these two speakers, who have fundamentally different views, is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1815	I can't vouch for these quotes, I don't know if they're opaque. It is a well-known fact that the Senter Party has had a clear view of predatory policy. The centre party did not participate in the predatory settlement that Stortinget made, and has entered into a government and fought for its views there. In very many of these areas, there are very good compromises as a basis. The views of the centre party, the SVs and the Workers' Party have conflicted, and we have achieved balanced compromises that are the basis for us to focus both on grazing and predators in Norwegian nature. So on the basis of the further information, we're going to take a look at this particular question about dog, but the central party is bringing its view into this debate, is absolutely excellent. What I've allowed myself to point out in this debate is that it's not quite as honorable of the Right, who was involved in the predatory settlement, to spend every day and hour fighting the deal that the party itself was involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1822	I must say that when I hear the council constantly trying to bring Børge Burnde and Right, it reminds me that empty barrels fall most. As far as double communication is concerned, one should really listen to representatives of the expertise, because the government is totally dependent on double communication, and when I hear the Council of State here today, I think Erling Sande is not going to get at least his desire for liberalisation in this area. It's been a long time since I've seen that with the government's policy, the country is going to flood with predatory game, and many are going to have problems, so there's going to be an even more heated debate. What I don't understand is that you can't look at the experiences of Sweden in the case of needy dogs, because the dog is man's best friend. It's very rare you'll see an attack on a dog from the wolf. In the cases you see it, it'll be so far away that you don't have the opportunity to shoot because it's close to the dog. Why is the government so reprehensible to provide the needy for dogs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1829	The question of dog we're going to come back to, and I'm going to take the arguments thoroughly at the time when the government has gone through that question. No one has any trouble understanding that people who get a dog killed by a predator are worried, tired of it and think it is cruel, just as little as some people have problems understanding that a sheep owner who sees a upset, often not dead carcass of one of their animals, is deeply concerned about it. But we have a double goal that the Right has been on. It is very absent from the debate on grazing and predators. I dare the claim that no Right-Speaker dares to stand, for example. at the national meeting of the Association for the Protection of Nature and claimed that government policy is to flood the country with predators. It's a rhetoric, it's not true, and it's meaningless. It's a rhetoric that's only targeted at special groups in Norway, because you think you can win votes on that rhetoric. You can't stand the same rhetoric when you meet, for example. Norwegian environmental movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1834	The council was very concerned about Børge Burnde in her article. After all, it is nice for the former Council of State Burnde to give him a good example of nature protection policy, but it is equally interesting to note what the Minister of the Environment gives to the previous government the name of the Stoltenberg I government. As far as climate policy is concerned, I would also encourage the Council of State to read the Climate Action Communication presented by former Environment Minister Børge Brende, and compare the number of new measures there with those presented by Erik Solheim's own government in the climate change communication. Since the government proposes to make the emergency measure depending on whether the stock target has been reached for three of the species concerned, is the question: what competence and level of knowledge does the Minister for the Environment consider it reasonable to demand from those who come up in these situations at any time, with the new legislation underpinning it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1844	I don't know if I fully understood the question, but if it's about someone who's in an emergency situation, should be able to legislate down to the smallest detail, it's obviously not what's meant here, just as little as it's meant in any other area of Norwegian law. But using common sense on the basis of laws and regulations is fortunately a very long way to go in Norway. And since this is probably one of the last occasions: I think it's striking that it causes so negative reactions from the Right that I repeatedly bring out Børge Burnde. So what Børge Brende did was revitalize national park policy. Here we are constantly told that there is too much protection in Norway, and among the things that are emerging in terms of too much protection are the national parks. Mr. Burnde started to protect the Trillemark. We carried it out, and the Right wasn't particularly keen on it, to say it very carefully. I allowed myself to refer to Børge Brende's view of the coastal zone policy from Stortinget's pulpit, and that was to have a national coastal zone policy where the municipalities are to operate within national targets set by Stortinget. There are also obvious concerns in the Right. My concern is that we no longer recognize what we once had.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1851	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1856	Today's case, about changes in the nature diversity law, the wildlife law, etc. [[emergency, use of bait]] The emergency provision is laid down in Section 17 of the Nature Diversity Act and says: ‘Welds may be killed when it is deemed necessary to remove a current and significant risk of injury to a person.’ This also applies in the case of a direct attack on buff or tamrein. In the districts, for example: Hedmark, how much of the business life is based on bumps, hunting and natural experiences, experiences today's legislation as very square, strict and little district friendly. With many and large predatory attacks, the number of buffalo keepers has been significantly reduced, and the possibility of hunting experiences, and especially with dogs, has worsened a lot. With a large strain of predators on the Swedish side with giants and trekking across the border, there is always a relatively high chance that predators will cross your path and degrade your lifestyle, quality of life and the ability to feed where animals are involved as part of the entrepreneurial income. The cultural landscape is also growing again because of this. Where it used to be grazing animals, such as sheep, now the forest has taken over, and the landscape grows as said again. To put it simply, there is a big difference between what the authorities think and what they mean by nature. This results in a decline in population in parts of the districts and an increase in evaporation. The government parties talk so much about the districts to flourish, and everyone to get all kinds of services wherever they live, but then they have to show more power of action and practical policy. A simple example of practical policy is precisely, as the Progress Party wants, to have a predatory policy with which the districts can live. If the endangered species is endangered, Norway should, of course, assume its responsibilities, but bears, wolves and gloats, such as: My home country is plagued, isn't it. I am glad that in the Progress Party we have that emergency services will also apply to attacks on dogs. For many, the dog is an important part of life both as a companion and as a work tool, as in hunting and buffing. Hunting with a stray dog is almost nothing more in my district, and not otherwise in Norway either, as no one dares or will release the dog in danger of being taken by predators. We can't have it that way. That the government with, among other things, The centre batch wants to postpone this even more to investigate is incomprehensible. I don't think so many farmers or hunters have an understanding of the Central Party's vision here. Finally, that all the other parties are skeptical to attack is incomprehensible to me. A more secure killing for damage shooting is probably impossible to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1878	First, I must thank the Council of State for the concern he has for former Environment Minister Børge Brende, the Right Party and the policy that has been pursued in the past. We have neither forgotten Børge Brende nor forgotten the policy. But there is a difference in the way Børge Brende and the current Council of State practice policy. Mr. Brende, although he saw protection and national laws as important, had one point: it was very important to keep in touch with the grassroots, those who would be around the national parks, and the practitioners who live by nature. So I can't see that today. That's the case. Whether it was the Spring Lord, the Sami goddess Maderáhkká or the coincidences that occurred, I don't know. But the first phone I got this morning, I got from my good friend Frode Utsi. Frode is a young reindeer who has his territory on the Varanger peninsula. He has not looked at Stortinget's program to check which issues were to be dealt with today, so it was probably quite random that he called me. Frode also has little confidence in the politicians that he calls in exile. Therefore, there was reason to listen to him when he took that phone today. Frode and his partners move in these days from winter pasture to summer pasture. For days they've been following a yer who they find regular reincadences after. Jerven either takes clean straight from the flock, or he scares the sims so that they release the calf, so this is double problematic. Frode would have liked to have taken out exactly this yerven, because it annoys him a little that he doesn't get to watch his flock. When referring to the State's natural resources, he is informed that this is difficult because of an uncertain stock estimate. We know the numbers from the debate here, so this is a little weird. But he can contact the county environmental protection department, he is informed. At the county they say that this is difficult because of an uncertain stock estimate, but he can contact the Directorate of Nature Management. The Directorate for Nature Management says that this is difficult because of an uncertain stock estimate. But if it's the case that it's being documented too many of you, you have to take them out by hunting for them in the summer. At the top of it all, everyone comforts him that he gets prey, so this can't be so dangerous. Frode made me aware of what we might call an unparliamentary way that he had planned to feed his family by producing reindeer meat, not by getting prey. Here we're dealing with a little bit of the root of the problem. There's a lot of distance between the administration we have today, and the practitioners who are out there, who know the nature and their animals, and who know how this is going to be. As I said earlier today, I had the pleasure of being in charge of the Council of State when he opened Varangerhalvaya National Park. That's where we've got a lot of predators. This national park is so close to the practitioners that it is now very important that we adapt the law so that both can be there. So I promised Frode I'd go to the Council of State and tell the Council of State about this. Then I expect the Council of State to lubricate with Section 17, third paragraph, so that Frode can remove this peacock now in the spring and release all the great losses he has suffered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1893	It was the representative Grimstad's attempt at polemics on a higher level that made me take the word. So there's no one, cork me or the plural, running trial and error legislation. This is the legislative assembly. Here we have a case where the government says the goal is an extension of the emergency right. The government's legal competence says that this means an extension of the emergency paragraph. The majority say that the objective is to liberalise the emergency clause and get legal assurances from the government that it is. And so to the extent that I can read this hall today, it's a bunch of stuff that wants that extension. When the opposition says, "What if we're right?" What if the justice system continues in the same track? I must first be allowed to say that I have great difficulties in believing that this will happen. But if that were to happen against all faith, we'd have to do it again. But I never think that's going to happen. When a gathering, the legislative assembly in the country, says something about how this is to be read, I have expectations that the judiciary will follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1900	Let me first link a very small comment to predatory fence. It would be thought that it was unnecessary to allow the killing of predators that are within a predator-proof fence. However, it has been stressed that there is an important liberalisation of existing legislation. It might say a little bit about how predatory these fences are. In my opinion, like the Council of State, I am skeptical about filling the country with sky-high fences, which are a great natural intervention, and will cross and cross the country. But that's the way it is, I think, that one of the most important elements in this case is needy for dogs. So then it's like the rhetoric, from a lot of workers' party people and all of the central party people, whether this case has been a) that we're going to have a dog, and b) that it's going to be like in Sweden. In Sweden, this works a little bit simplified: you ask the question, is it a predator who wants to attack an animal, and will you defend it? Try to scare it! If not, you can shoot it. In Norway, you need to be both a lawyer, a biologist and also a building engineer in order for the legislation to be effective. First, you have to consider which species is being attacked. Then you have to know which predator is attacking. Then you have to know population, both nationally and locally, of this species. You must know not only whether the animal is within fences, but also whether it is classified as a predator-proof fence. Then you have to assess the extent to which the attack is imminent. If the animal is already dead, you can't defend it. It is clear that once you have gone through this, to which you are legally obliged, it is likely that the animal you are to defend is already dead. So you can't shoot any more, according to the law we're going to adopt today. That's what I call a big paradox. I do not think the criticism of my colleague Grimstad that Erling Sande put in place is right. I believe that it is the representative Sande who does not take his mandate seriously when he, who actually sits in the country's legislative assembly, pronounces to the Nations on 8 April: ‘It is important that we formulate comments on how emergency situations can occur.’ It is not even the case that there are notes that we have been sitting on the Stortinget and formulated, which you should relate to when standing with a rifle in your hand, with the hunting trip in front of you and with the wolf's life over the dog's head. In addition, if it is expected to have read the comments of the Storing Committee, I think it is going too far. Then it's a touching concern of those who are concerned about attacking, that animals that you hunt with bait are going to be used to people. I find it hard to understand that there are so many bad hunters in this country that animals can develop too much confidentiality with people when it goes on a diet. In fact, I assume that the animal is being shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1918	This has been an interesting debate in many ways. It is worth noting that the opposition is talking as if by the law we are going to adopt today, we are doing a significant tightening and almost making it impossible to protect the animals through emergency services. That's the diametrical opposite of what we're doing. We're going to liberalize the law through the decision we're making today. Today it's only by direct attack on the animals that you can kill. There is no doubt that in such an acute situation you should be able to shoot. It also applies to wolves. So when the representative Lien tries to present it as if it's not necessary for the wolf, it's of course wrong. This is not the discussion. It's about being able to kill and gloat in a less acute situation. That the opposition is unable to see that it involves liberalisation says much more about their will than about the bill. People in search handle far more complicated regulations than it is now getting lower thresholds to kill gloat and yerv, and I think very few will need to consult a lawyer to deal with it. To consider what kind of species is being attacked, for example, I think I should be pretty good, you'd like to know if you brought out a sheep or a dog. Then, if I may, I would like to express my personal doubts as to whether it helps the domestics to pray for them, as was told earlier here today. But the proposals presented today will help. Lower thresholds to protect their animals will, of course, help. A law that stimulates the setting up of predatory fences will, of course, help. To take people who live with predators seriously – their “fear” as referred to here – you need to keep a higher level of debate than what you have done today. There are perfectly legitimate concerns, where there are doubts about whether the administration has followed up the predatory settlement in the way it was supposed to – certainly factual objections, things that still need clarification. Dog is such an example. I would like to say that Soria Moria II announces that the Stortinget will be invited to a settlement on new stock targets. My wish is that you have as your starting point to find sensible, balanced solutions, as both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have the tradition for predators. The tone of this debate and other debates causes me to become concerned, which means that I join those who find it difficult to recognize the responsible, balanced, value-conservative Right that we saw when the predator agreement was dealt with in 2004. Now it's polemics, now it's characteristic and a completely different, aggressive, attitude that applies. It merges into an image that, through the debate today, appears to be increasingly evident, and it is a picture of a Right on a new and hostile course.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3268]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1949	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1958	We are going to deal with a representative proposal from some local representatives from the Right on the NRK and advertising funding. The proposal definitely addresses an important issue, which can be said to be both timely and topical. What characterises the media sector now is that there are major economic challenges to the national, not least the global, international financial turmoil. In contrast to the NRK, the commercial operators note that revenue fails, the advertising market fails. To meet it, the mediaekonser does after the mediaekonser, and single businesses, a quite significant downstaffing. What is also seen is that a programme offer made up of commercial actors, built up over time, on which they have spent a lot of time and resources, is now being reduced, and also disappears. In addition, technological developments are also challenging for many of the commercial companies. In the middle of this, you have the NRK, which is protected against economic uncertainty, and the starting point for the NRK is that you should not be a commercial operator, but you should relate to the licenses you have. After all, the NRC has also developed quite significantly on the commercial market and is in competition with the commercial operators. The NRK is big, with over $4 billion. kr in income, and in this way is a significant, large player in relation to the others. I was present on the media days in Bergen with my colleague Ib Thomsen. There was a lot of interesting things there, but I want to draw up one thing, the Nordic top meeting between the editors of the Nordic media. During that debate, Director Bjerkaas in the NRK pointed out that only 100 million were taken in. kr for commercial activities. Of course, it got Alf Hildrum on TV 2 to say that 100 million. SEK for TV 2 is a huge amount. I just think that the exchange and the little dialogue tell about the size of the NRK compared to the other actors. What's also interesting is that the NRK is trying to do some grip. Now they've renounced network noise, which is just a tiny fraction of the NRK's income. I think that is quite right. But when you can read in the media at the same time that the NRK is assessing a new license, and they're looking at the basis for increasing revenues, I have to say that then I understand the more of it, that dissociating something they're getting little income from, towards introducing something new that they're getting even more income from, well, is a pretty interesting strategy. At the same time, you can read in today's Business today that you are asking for an increased license. In other words, you face the future by asking the taxpayers, or the licensees in this case, to pay even more. It seems to me that this is an inexorable way of dealing with competitors, who experience a completely different reality than being able to come to the Stortinget and ask for political decisions to get more money. What the NRK and the Bjerkaas do is in traditional style to push popular programmes in front of them, such as the sports broadcasts from the Ski World Cup in Oslo, to explain the need to absorb these revenues. I also have to say that I react to a number of quotations that emerge in today’s business life, among other things. that the NRK is committed to giving the Norwegian people a richer life. Talk about being pompous. I think it's a statement that should never have come from a broadcaster who gets over 4 billion. kr from the viewers directly into the cash register. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1971	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e1974	The potential of the NRK as an operator in an advertising-funded market is already very limited by several decisions in this room, and at the latest in St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future. It is worth noting that the NRK is free not to sell advertising related to its website. This possibility has been exercised by the Governing Board of the NRC by means of a Governing Decision of 24 March, with effect from the autumn of 2010. This means that the role of the NRK as an operator in a commercial market is further limited. A Joint Committee shall take note of the decision of the NRC Board. The majority of the Committee considers that the NRK has managed the guidelines for access to advertising revenue in a good manner. It has provided the NRK with opportunities to develop and be present on different technological distribution platforms that are appropriate and not least accessible to the public. Such adaptation is also important, in the view of the majority, both in order to ensure the general broadcasting role and in order to further develop it – as the NRC has so far done in an excellent way. We record that, with the support of the Progress Party, the Right proposes to further regulate NRK’s access to advertising revenue in addition to that contained in the decision in relation to St.melding. No 30. So what is the reason for restricting this access? According to the comments, it is not because the NRC has not adhered to the guidelines adopted but in order to protect commercial operators in a media market that has lost a great deal of money in the context of the financial crisis. According to the proposers, there is not enough sustainability in the Norwegian advertising market for several large channels, and it is therefore necessary more clearly to limit NRK’s advertising access. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than that they will effectively eliminate NRK’s access to advertising revenue and then strengthen the bottom line of commercial operators in the advertising market. It's an honest political stance, but then I think they should say it more clearly than they do in their comments on this matter. The majority of the Committee is not in line with the proposers. Policy is about achieving future policy objectives. Of course, this also applies when we discuss media policy. If we read the comments of the Progress Party in the state budget setting, we note that the Progress Party has a long-term goal of removing the licence fee, and that the NRK should be treated in a non-discriminatory way with other broadcasters in broadcasting. It's reassuring that they're so far alone in having this position. But we know that privatisation is also strong in the Right. The weekend country meeting gave many signals that privatising in many areas of society will be a priority objective. Therefore, in an intended government cooperation between the two most privatising parties here on Stortinget, it is highly likely that the NRK will be privatised and thus act as a purely commercial player in the Norwegian future media landscape. What consequences can this have for shaping the media policy of the future, as well as ensuring a wide range of media services for the Norwegian population? The Ministry of Culture has had the impact of market financing and the privatisation of the NRK. The investigation is available on the Ministry's website. It's worth looking at some of the things that are said in the investigation: The entry of the NRK into the commercial broadcasting market will result in dramatic and unpredictable changes and it is unlikely that all current actors can have the same level of activity as they do today. It is unlikely that the market alone will provide NRK resources of the same scale as today. When funding advertising by NRK, TV 2 will also receive competition from the NRK in the advertising market. It puts TV 2 in an uncertain situation. Therefore, it seems strange that the Progress Party in this case fears that the NRK will be able to participate in some additional advertising crowns, when it is actually stated that the NRK will be merged with others about each and every penny in a future advertising-driven market. In such a fight, there will be many losers. The majority of the Committee will not be involved in such a reduction in the good and comprehensive general programming provision we have in Norway. The majority will therefore not support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2000	In view of the fact that others in the opposition, among others: The rapporteur of the matter, who wants to abolish the NRK licence and replace it with advertising funding, is a somewhat exciting debate. As the representative Simensen mentioned before me, a privatisation of the NRK had led to a vacuuming of the entire advertising market. Advertising revenue is limited in Norway, and this is precisely the opposition’s own point, which is repeated in the notes. Privatisation of the NRC will lead to a smaller media diversity in Norway. As the case's rapporteur said, the NRK has taken this matter into its own hands and decided to remove the advertising on its websites. From this fall we can all press in on NRK.no and enjoy a page without advertising. However, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about why it is important to have a non-commercial public broadcaster like the NRK. I want to quote someone from the media field itself, namely Sven Egil Omdal in Stavanger Aftenblad on Saturday – Stavanger Aftenblad is a newspaper opposition that tends to trust. Omdal writes: ‘NRK is a little bit yours. Instead of considering the license as an unpopular cup tax, it is a question of looking at it as a democratic virtue, a cheap investment in something that is good for us all." This is the very basic idea of the NRK – a channel of quality, with social responsibility, funded by the community and thus on non-commercial premises. There can be no doubt that the NRK is of high quality, and I would argue that it ensures high quality in other TV channels as well as in other media actors. Again I will refer to Omdal in Stavanger Aftenblad, who says: ‘Commercial television channels may be very good, which is regular, but this is because they extend to the quality of the licensed competitors. Take away this competition, and the quality will decline towards the commercial balance point where the difference between expenditure and revenue is as great as possible. Anyone who has seen Italian television will understand what I mean.» Media quality is not only pleasant for us who look at it, but it is also crucial for democracy. The NRK when all, and has a responsibility to provide information that allows everyone to participate in the public debate. The opposition should take the consequences of its own policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2025	The NRK shall initially be an advertisement-free channel. In fact, this ban has been softened on some points, but the main approach is firm. The reason for this is partly the desire for an advertising-free zone, and partly based on the recognition that the Norwegian advertising market is limited, and that therefore the commercial operators we want to compete with the NRK should be reserved. The transition to new technologies and the development of new digital platforms represent major challenges for media businesses. Development costs, dramatic tougher fights over the ad crowns and heavily altered user habits challenge today the media diversity that we have known it up to now. These challenges became particularly visible when the financial crisis led to a failure in advertising. Although better times compensate for this to some extent, there is little doubt that the entire industry is facing very demanding conversion processes over time. One of the exceptions NRK has for advertising is online advertising. In the wake of the financial crisis, it became clear that the NRC on-line, which by virtue of its public funding was less exposed than its competitors, appeared to be a potentially dangerous competitor to the private operators. Convergence in the media sector suggests that we have to expect that more and more media everyday life will be understood as online. Therefore, the arguments for the ban on advertising on ordinary television broadcasts will increasingly also apply to online broadcasting. Therefore, the right considers it necessary to review the advertising rules, in order to ensure that the NRK on-line is also free of advertising. It is important to put this lead now while we are relatively early in development and web advertising does not represent very large amounts for the NRK. Based on what we know, we're talking about 15 to 20 million. kr in the last year. Fortunately, the NRK itself understood this and therefore stopped selling advertising online on its own initiative. It believes that the Right is a wise move that will over time strengthen the legitimacy of the NRK's public funding. However, the right considers that it is natural for the principle of freedom of advertising to be broken down in the legislation — including for online versions. This is part of the framework conditions under which the owner is to determine – not a voluntary NRK board of directors at any time. The principle of freedom of advertising should be enshrined in the NRK's digital communications in general. In the development we are now in, this principle should be laid down at a general level, namely in the legislation. We therefore maintain the proposal that the government should contribute to such regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2048	The President may think that the representative, Håbreek, was willing to ask for the floor before the Council of State got it. The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbreek, will then have the floor for a 5 minute post before the Council of State, Mr Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2053	Thank you for that, President. The matter we are now discussing is not a matter of the NRK as such. But let me still say that the Christian People's Party is a hot defender of a public owned licence-funded public broadcaster like the NRK. The value of it will not be diminished by the media policy developments we see. With regard to the matter we have here for treatment, about NRK's access to advertising on its websites, the Christian People's Party also agrees that the NRK has made a wise decision. That is why we do not want to vote in favour of the proposal under consideration. The NRK has made a wise decision that we are pleased about, and is now being taken as part of the company's strategy. The NRK shall be an advertisement-free zone. At the same time, we see that the NRK has used a significant proportion of its screen time to advertise its own websites – websites that contain advertising and are financed by advertising revenue. In this way, the advertising-free zone becomes more unclear, and this also raises the issue of whether the NRK as a whole can be considered free of advertising or not. This re-creates dilemmas for other operators and web portals that are not financed by licence and that compete with the NRK for the same advertising revenue that has been received by others. The Christian People's Party also addressed this issue as early as 2007, when the Broadcasting Communication was addressed. NRK’s public broadcasting offer should be non-commercial in nature — it is defined in the NRK poster. I am pleased that the NRK itself has taken the initiative to tighten up its strategy in this area, and I think that the NRK will also be well served in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2066	It was wise of the President to give the word to Hope before he gave the word to me. Hope could, in so far as it kept the post on behalf of the government in this case, so here there is full agreement. The NRK’s access to advertising revenue is very strictly regulated and limited and has been discussed in connection with St.meld. No 50 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future. It was discussed in November 2007. The Ministry's proposal to regulate NRK's commercial activities brought together a broad majority of all parties except the Advance Party and the Left at that time. The NRK's access to advertising revenue is very regulated by the Broadcasting Act and its regulations and the NRK's statutes, in accordance with the leaders of the Stortinget. Among other things, NRK’s access to broadcasting on text television was removed in connection with the processing of the notification in Stortinget. The proposers argue that the NRK should have very strong restrictions on advertising and sponsorship funding. It is my claim that the NRK on a European scale has a very narrow framework for advertising and sponsorship revenue. The NRK shows social responsibility, and the board has recently chosen to refrain from advertising on its own website. However, I believe that there are very good reasons why NRK's access to sponsoring certain programmes should be continued. This is what it does, among other things. the possibility for the NRK to participate in the exercise of heavy sports rights. Now that we've recently seen more and more sporting events go over to commercial channels, for which we have to pay a lot, I think it's important that a public broadcaster has the opportunity to show big sporting events on Norwegian television. It is essential for the legitimacy of the NRK and the broadcasting fee that the audience perceives the company's programme offering as significant and attractive. An NRK that does not provide popular sports events is likely to be less significant. It must also be allowed to ask questions as to why this case comes up now. In the discussion of the digitalisation message, the Right was behind the majority. One of the proposers, Olemic Thommessen, was at the time even the case rapporteur for the committee's examination of the notification. So the right-hand side joined the framework that currently applies to NRK's advertising and sponsorship income. Right now, just under three years after the Storting dealt with this matter last, it has found it too well to change its position. They agree with the Progress Party. The proposers point out that the media sector experienced significant challenges during the financial crisis. I also see that large parts of the media sector today face major challenges. But since Korsberg refers to speeches that were given during the media days in Bergen, there was one material talk there that showed that it is the television that has the greatest chance of survival in the future. There are other parts of the media industry that are primarily affected by this. According to ACNielsen figures, there has been growth in the turnover of television advertising every year since 2002. The problem for NRK’s commercial competitors is that they are now losing market shares to foreign niche channels. That's where the challenge lies. It is therefore not appropriate to claim that NRK’s notified revenues from sponsorship have a significant impact on the bottom line of Norwegian commercial channels. I can't see, for my part, that there is a need for a new, basic review of NRK's access to advertising revenue now. They are restrictive, and they give us opportunities to watch major sporting events on Norwegian television.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2092	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2096	I would like to ask a question to the Council of State regarding today's business survey on a proposal from the NRC to increase the license payment by 80 kroner for next year. But I'm not going to ask that question, because I know the answer – that you're waiting for next year's government budget. But what's interesting is the output that's come from the NRK in other ways of getting income, among other things. by considering a new licence. It is said that it is important to find more ways of financing NRKs, and more and more consumers are using television via mobile phones and computers instead via standard televisions. Then I just want to ask the Council of State a question: does the Council of State see any need to limit the NRK's ability to take other types of income than the NRK licence?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2103	I believe the limitations of the NRK on this point are very clear. It is also the case today that if you see a TV on the NRK, there is nothing you pay in addition to the licence fee. So I think the NRK legislation in this area is very strict. However, the representative of Korsberg should be concerned that the impact of the policy of the Progress Party, with a significant privatisation of the NRC, has been fully elucidated. If there's something that's going to crush the commercial competitors of the NRK, it's just that the NRK advertising is funded. So the fact that we have a license-funded NRK contributes to increased competition in the media sector and that we get more commercial players in Norway than we would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2110	More than one word has not been asked for a line... – This has been done by the representative of Korsberg, and he is given a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2115	Thank you, then I really want to take advantage of the occasion. I noticed the answer I received from the Council of State on my question. I'm not going to comment on exactly the privatisation of the NRK, because that's not the topic of today's debate. But I also notice that the department, in the case of consumers who take television via mobile phones and computers, instead of general television sets, says: «Northmen shall in fact also punch out if they watch television on the computer, as the broadcasting fee is initially linked to whether or not they have a television receiver.» This reports to the Ministry of Culture. Why do you get a dissenting answer in this room to that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2131	I respond in accordance with the legislation. You don't pay anything extra to watch on-line TV in addition to NRK's license, so here the rule is clear. But today it's the way everyone can take in the TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2136	The representative then requests Mr Korsberg's third and last line, and he receives it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2139	As the Progress Party has a great interest both in the NRK and in the media about radio and TV, I find it a bit interesting to note that here the Minister of Culture acts as the owner of the NRK, as a strong regulator of the NRK and as a strong regulator of the market. Does the Council of State consider it unproblematic, all the time when there are quite sharp signals from other market players pointing to the hybrid financing of the NRC and that it is contrary to what was initially the statutes of the NRC, that there should be licence-funded radio and television broadcasts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2146	In some areas it can be challenging. That's why I have, among other things, I signaled that in connection with being the appeal body for individual decisions in the Media Authority, I want to promote a change of law for the Stortinget during the spring, where I want to cut off the possibility of making individual decisions in the Media Authority. One of the reasons for that change has just been that there may be conflicting interests related to the ownership of the NRC and the handling of complaints in individual cases. But with regard to the questions asked by the representative here, I believe that they are handled in a good way. Then I must also add that I hear that the privatisation of the NRK is not a topic here today. But the interesting questions are what happens if the advertising market is vacuumed, as Korsberg's proposal will actually lead to. Then there will be less competition and fewer alternatives and fewer commercial TV channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2153	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2158	I read the following quote from Bjerkaas in Today's Business Today: ‘We no longer participate in circuit championships and Norwegian championships in content – we participate in the World Cup every day.’ This was a statement from Bjerkaas. It's easy to do good in a world championship when you're drinking license money. Now he wants to be world champion. Now he wants an increase in the doping doses. There's a lot going on in the media a day. There's a lot going on in the media picture. There are major downhauls in TVNorway. There we see that they cut out the newscast. TV 2 cutters in the debate programmes, and now we're discussing what advertising is in the NRK. The NRK claims that sponsorship from private operators with advertising posters over the screen is not advertising. They call it sponsorship. Now TV 2 sells as much advertising as they did ten years ago. If you look at the crystal ball, you don't see a TV 2 economy where advertising revenue bears all the costs. No one deserves it. In 2000, advertising revenue amounted to 92 pst. of the total revenue of the channel. Now the advertising revenue is only 60 pst. of the revenue of TV 2. Last year, TV 2 lost about 400 million. kr on advertising in relation to the previous year. It's clear that there's a lot of people fighting about advertising revenue here. But so does NRK. The future revenues of TV 2 are also linked to the outcome of the negotiations that TV 2 is currently conducting with the State. I have understood that TV 2 and the State have not agreed on the conditions that will form the basis for TV 2 to become a compulsory public broadcaster. All this spring, TV 2 has been in conversation with the Ministry of Culture, but what is it that needs to be investigated, and why are we not getting an answer? Why don't we know what the problem is? When is there an agreement with TV 2? When is this to be shared with the Storting? When should the Stortinge be informed? There are probably a lot of actors out there who are excited about the results. If TV 2 can live without an appointment, you ask yourself. Does TV 2 still have to be in Bergen? That's also an interesting question. If they get what they want, a small regulatory change can ensure that TV 2 gets an additional income of 250 million. kr. Cable companies such as Get and Canal Digital shall be required. The money shall be collected from all customers associated with a cable company. This will be a new broadcasting fee when you cannot clean up this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2174	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3270]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2182	Then we should be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2189	During the debate, Michael Tetzschner put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to inform Stortinget how it assesses the legal status of municipalities on the basis of Article 11 of the Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe Convention.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2222	During the debate, Oskar Jarle Grimstad has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case for the Storting, which is both discussing and promoting proposals for conclusions, relating, inter alia, to how non-interventional natural areas – INON – should be defined in Norway based on Norwegian nature and cultural history, the technical measures to define INNON, the categories INNON should have, the weight INNON should have with any categories in relation to other societal considerations and the way in which management should attach importance and weight to INON in determining individual cases.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The left has indicated here that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2246	The president was wrong. The correct number of votes shall be 51 votes for the vote and 46 votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2253	During the debate, Oskar Jarle Grimstad has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2289	During the debate, Frank Bakke Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals during the spring 2010 session to adapt the law on motor travel in the outfield so that municipalities are given increased authority within national guidelines, and where experience from the pilot project with increased local autonomy is taken into account.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2315	During the debate, Oskar Jarle Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2875	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Oskar Jarle Grimstad, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 2, from Bjørn Lødemel on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2977	It will be heard about the Committee's position on I. The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e2991	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3022	As an alternative, between the Committee's nomination for the second and third paragraphs of Section 17 of Section II and proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3054	The fourth paragraph of Section 17 of Section II of the adjustment is contested. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3068	The first and fifth paragraphs of Section 17 and the third paragraphs of Section II are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3078	It is voted over II new § 17a and IV. The right here has announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3093	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3103	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3110	In the course of the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to regulate NRK’s access to advertising revenue.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-10.ana.ud2338e3220	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
