ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e24	The President will be allowed to wish all representatives and others who have their daily work in Stortinget, a really good new year, and hope that it will be a good year of work for Stortinget. The representatives Erling Sande and Line Henriette Hemdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Elizabeth Skogrand, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e53	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Knut Storberget and Lars Peder Breck will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e62	I have a question for the State Council of Storberget. Let me also wish the Council a really good new year. Let's also hope that this won't be a very pleasant year for the criminals in this country. During the summer, we experienced that the police director went out into the media and wanted a reorganization of the police. Among other things, she notified fewer police districts. She also said that we now need to make greater demands on the results of the police, among others. because the police have received considerably more resources. That's something we can all join. The progress party is basically not against reorganization, but it is not long since we had a significant police reform, and the results of it can be seen: there is a longer response time over large parts of the country, people have to wait longer before the police move out, and there has also been a decommissioning of relief agencies, which weakens people's confidence that we have the near police that we all want. Now the Council of State and the police director have been a team for quite many years, and it is quite surprising that, at the Rome Christmas this year, we have come to the realization that we need a reorganization to get better results in the police. We demand that if further police reforms are to take place now, the Council of State must come to the Grand Council and make clear what results he will deliver in the field of criminal policy. My question is, When are we going to see the results of Knut Storberget's criminal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e75	First of all, I too wish a good new year, really for all people. I hope that there will be a new year that will help those who need it to change their course in life, so that we get less crime. I am very happy to have questions about the police on this day, the sixth day of 2010. So we're in the year when we're going to spend a record amount on the Norwegian police, NOK 1.3 billion more than what we did last year. We're going to train record policemen, in the sense that we're taking up and training over 700 police students this year, and we're in a year where we have a reconciliation queue that's almost zero. When asked about the results of the government's criminal policy, these are very clear results of the policy, which will help us to reduce crime as well. Then it's not like the police director and the undersigned have used the Rome Christmas to hatch a plan that we should have restructurings and discussions about how to make the Norwegian police more effective. The representative is well-known, for example: from the budget debates we had before Christmas, that when we are now spending so much resources on the Norwegian police, and when we are going to bring in so many people – we are going to have more than half a thousand civil servants in the police – it also requires us to look at how we can make the best use of resources. We took that initiative in the department last year, and we talked about it in public. We have so far called it a result reform, to look at how we can spend the money better and create more security for most people, and also get a closer police who actually comes when it comes. It's a debate that's not just about how many loner offices we have, and how many police districts we have, but it's also about how we organize ourselves, and how much we spend the money on the public activity. That is what we are now addressing, and I hope to be able to get to Stortinget during this year with a framework around the performance reform. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e84	In the press, the Council of State says that he will not reject these proposals made by the police director, but that he will not conclude when it comes to the closure of police districts. This may indicate that there may be a high level of thinking on the part of the police director, and that there is nothing anchored in the department. But the danger of giving this kind of signal publicly about further closures of police districts, perhaps further closures of janitorial offices, etc., is that there is an insecurity out there among people because the police are being removed for the most people – I hope that the Council of State understands that. I think we now have no more time to wait for results in criminal policy to create security for most people. We've now been through a period of significant crime from foreign gangs, and we can't go into another year with that kind of crime. What will the Council of State now do to anchor this in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e93	It's a little unclear to me what the representative really wants. One moment we are asked for the Stortinge to be presented with this so that we can debate it. In the second moment, it's now said that since we haven't concluded, it's almost high-flying thoughts. We have not concluded in relation to how the Norwegian police for the future should be in their final form. The whole point of this discussion is, of course, that the Storting should also be allowed to participate in this. I'm going to think that the question would be quite different if we had concluded at Rome Christmas in relation to how many police districts we should have. Then it is not that this work pushes aside all the daily, tough police work that is now being done, and also the change that is taking place, among other things. to take internationally organised criminal gangs. So it's like last year, what I've called the intervention force against this, and both the major police station and Vestfold, Telemark and Asker and the Bærum police districts, but also the northernmost police districts, have organized themselves in a much better way to fight back, which has also produced clear results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e100	There will be three follow-up questions – first Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e103	The Council of State said that we had had some reorganisations in the past, and that we, among other things, In Norway, the solstice has been removed for a long time. This happened because the government decided to release the prisoners early. If that was a good way to do it, I'm a little bit unsure. But my question to the Council of State is: there was a discussion in the Department last year about the reorganisation of the police, and then the discussion must have come so far that the Council of State can give some concrete examples to the Storting on what this reorganisation will be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e110	Since the representative – I was about to say – shouts at the issue of the reconciliation queue, I am unable to humiliate myself, because I know that the representative has received the answer from me many times, but I have to give it again, since it has not gone all the way home. The reason we've closed the settlement queue in Norway is not that we've released the prisoners in the past. When the Advance Party signed a budget settlement and ruled the country with the bourgeois government, there was something called release – the prisoners were released earlier. It's actually the red-green government that has removed this possibility of forward release, so that the prisoners now sit longer and zones than before. As a result, 400 new prisons have been established in Norway. To my great pleasure, I can also say that we are going to open Halden prison earlier this year, so that we will then get over 600 new places where people are going to zone, and a significant bet on alternative forms of reconciliation. Now I guess I wasn't supposed to answer what was the question, but I'd like to take a challenge to it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e122	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e125	In the 2008 Staff Committee report, the response to organised, travelling crime was more jobs and better organisation across today’s police districts. At the beginning of 2010, the police director proposed a large-scale merger of police districts, which comes at the top of regionalisation and the closure of county police offices in many police districts, and near-police is now an illusion in many places. In the past, the right has proposed to launch a wide-ranging police study to clarify the future and priority tasks of the police. Does the Council not see the point that a discussion now of a new radical reorganisation in the police is served by a task review first? And the Council of State will now take the initiative in a police study, such as: are supported by the Police Joint Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e135	My answer to that is yes. We need to do what the representative Aspaker has been talking about for a long time in this police study. That's why we're doing what we're doing now. This is the background to the use of the harvest to complete what we have called an operational analysis for the police, which will be public in the new year, and which shows how the police operate their tasks today. Now that I have announced that we should also look at a performance reform, it is precisely about going in and looking at the types of tasks that the police have, which the police should have, how to prioritise and what kind of measurements we are going to take to detect – I kept saying – success or not success in the police not only in terms of processing time and clearance rate, but perhaps also prevention. So there are just many of the thoughts that I have understood that the representative Aspaker has been concerned about, which is now being taken care of both through the operational analysis that comes, and not least through the performance reform process, which will be central in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e140	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e143	Yeah, there's someone who really needs a good new year, so it's those who need a new course. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice. I also agree that we need a more effective fight against crime. So the question of today's lookup about our social security rules is contributing in that way or not, but we're going to deal with that in a different context. My question is about taking seriously what both the Minister of Justice and the police director have said, namely, looking at the boundaries of police districts and perhaps cooperation between police districts. If we look at two issues, both crime against children – also in the light of the police's own assessment of the investigation efforts in this type of case, see. The handicrafts case – and the gangs we've seen – is clearly that cooperation across police districts is too poor. How does the Minister of Justice want to do better?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e150	The two complexities pointed to by the representative – the handicrafts case, but also the international gangs that travel and steal quite so intensely – show the need for far closer cooperation across the police district borders. And the performance reform, the operational analysis that is now coming, is just about to look at opportunities for better cross-border cooperation. The initiative taken to establish an effort against this crime of profit, as we have seen, is also a good example of not only taking initiatives but also succeeding in combating that type of crime. The fall in the number of victories in Oslo last summer was the result of a broader cooperation across the district borders, and the follow-up of the criminals from the time they were arrested came under suspicion and until Gardermoen was ready to leave for their country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e155	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e158	I would like to ask a question to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre. The Taliban has apparently said, with reference to NATO and the Western countries, that you have the clocks, but we have the time. This is a very good description that much of the question related to Afghanistan is also about knowing that it is long-term, it takes time, it needs presence, if you are to make sure that the project we have been doing for eight years is actually going to be successful. That's why it was also the case that when Obama started talking about exit state, or stepping down the escalation, it was met with silence and probably a great deal of uncertainty both in Afghanistan and in Pakistan and other neighbouring countries that are currently engaged in the same conflict. There has been a broad consensus over the last few years that the international involvement in Afghanistan should be phased out in the years to come. More responsibility and more decision must be transferred to the Afghan authorities. The hope is that they will take responsibility for their own development. In that case, it becomes a bit special when central politicians from among the government parties, including government councils, call for Norway to lead in some form of exit strategy, or to close its involvement in Afghanistan as soon as possible. No later than this weekend, the representative of SV Holmås stated that Norway should carry out this work within one year. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that it is in line with the idea of Afghanisation that there are Norwegian parties to define who to negotiate with in Afghanistan, and what exit strategies should that be? Or does the Foreign Minister think that it must actually be up to democratic Afghanistan, parliament and government, to define its own future development?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e169	If the question can be boiled down to whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that Norwegian parties should decide exit strategies in Afghanistan, then the answer is simple. The answer is no. Afghanistan must choose Afghanistan's course. The international presence is based on an invitation from the Government of Afghanistan, from a decision of the UN Security Council and all the decisions underlying it. The Prime Minister has formulated himself as follows: Norway participates in Afghanistan by joining the Allies, and we will go out with the Allies. From a long time perspective, it is not natural to see Norway standing in Afghanistan indefinitely, but from the Norwegian side, no date for repatriation has been defined, extraction of Afghanistan. The government platform is quite clear on that. That there is a discussion about this in Norwegian political environments, in Norwegian political parties, is natural and necessary in our democracy, but that is the reality. What it's about now is not fixing a date. I'm skeptical about it because the calendar is so uncertain. The concept of clocks and times is not a bad concept to describe time perspectives. What we need to focus on is the conditions for transition to Afghan responsibility and Afghan rule. Therefore, Norway, on its part, has twisted parts of our presence, both military and civil, towards more systematic capacity building. We'll have a debate in Stortinget next month, after the London Conference, on the whole of the Afghanistan strategy, but I can tell you here that we're getting a military presence that's more the coin of training. We get, as the Prime Minister announced during Obama's visit, major investments in the fund for training the Afghan police and the Afghan army. And in the case of Afghan reconciliation, I'm concerned that there are Afghans who have to be reconciled. It is Afghans and neighbouring countries and regional cooperation that need to find solutions for the future of Afghanistan. And there it is clear that many of these environments that we roughly call the Taliban, which are pashtun environments in the south on both sides of the Pakistan border, must be involved in a process on the basis of the constitution in Afghanistan, but it is the Afghans who must lead it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e180	When the Foreign Affairs Committee was in Afghanistan a little over two years ago, there was no doubt in our meeting with the Afghan Foreign Affairs Committee, how many of the old warlords actually sit as members, that one of the biggest questions they asked was: How big and committed will our commitment be to Afghanistan? Do we dare to insist that you have ‘stomach’ to be here for as long as it takes to build democracy? In that light, my question becomes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: does he think it is lucky that we are doing our own exercises on our own national exit strategies and not insisting on what the Prime Minister has said, that we are going to go in with NATO and out with NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e185	We are lucky to have a democracy in Norway. We're lucky to have an exchange of views on what is a very important and demanding international commitment. But there is no doubt about what the Prime Minister has said, and as he has a broad majority in the Storting to say, I assume. There is a significant question the representative Solberg addresses, the perspective of international presence. I also have experience – not two years ago, but only a few months ago – of the uncertainty that prevails in the region as to how long the international presence stands, how long does the Afghan regime stand. These are critical questions. I dare remind you that there are other NATO allies who have a much more pressing debate on dates, that there are governments on the other side of the political spectrum than what we have in Norway, who are struggling with dates and issues. In Norway, the policy is that we are in Afghanistan, we are going to be in Afghanistan, we are going in with the Allies, we are going out with the Allies after consultation with the Afghan authorities, and with a strong focus on the mandate given by the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e192	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e195	I think I'll follow up with a new simple question: When NATO will adopt its new strategic concept for the autumn, the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that it is at all conceivable that NATO will choose something else as priority in its new strategic concept. 1 than the fight against terrorism? When I ask this question, it is because we have this ongoing debate on exit strategy from Afghanistan in Norway, and that even the Secretary of Defense in his lecture the other day in Oslo Military Society was also concerned with the need to re-grow NATO as a European-American defence alliance, and this all the time terror since the Rome Christmas has been in the news every day: the Delta plane that was to be blown up in the air, the situation in Yemen, and not least the attack on the well-known signs of the Jyllands-Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e205	We're concerned with a consistent fight against terrorism, but I don't think the answer in NATO's strategic concept is going to be a sentence that says the fight against terrorism is priority no. 1st@item: inlistbox NATO is a military-political alliance aimed at safeguarding our security as democracies, human rights, security-policy stability and security for the countries involved. I am not sure that NATO is the foremost tool to protect the artist in Copenhagen and to combat terrorism in Yemen. It needs much broader and more targeted action to do so. My goal and Norway's goal is that NATO's strategic concept should reflect the world we live in. There are challenges from terrorism, which is a very indefinable broad concept, an important part, but there are also traditional security policy issues on our continent; there are new themes arising from migration, climate change, security changes. There will be an interesting seminar in Oslo next week in the group to discuss the strategic concept of relations with partner countries outside NATO. So this debate is getting wide, but I don't think it's going to end up with one answer – the fight against terror – as the only one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e212	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e215	There is no doubt that those who contribute to Afghanistan do so on the basis of a desire to improve their living there, both nationally and internationally. Anyway, at my discretion, it's a main challenge that we're losing the media, if you can call it that. It's made in the media like we're on the waving front. You see crippled young men and women who come home alive, some people have lost their lives, and we see that the Taliban is attacking their own as well as everyone else because at any time you want to fight democracy and the development of human rights in Afghanistan. We also see that when military leaders are out, they ask for more forces, because then we're going to do the job. But the challenge will be how to change the strategy to produce the good stories that show the value of being upright even when things are difficult. I think that if we're not able to win the media battle, it's going to be harder and harder to continue. In this way I believe that the contribution from the representative Holmås is a bad contribution, which only serves the opposite party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e222	With great respect for the representative Holmås, I think he's being given a role here in Afghanistan's development that's raw, to say it like this. I'm concerned that both the media and all other stories from Afghanistan reflect reality, and then we have to reflect the dramatic reality. But I agree with Mr Ellingsen that there are also many stories that are positive. If you read international media, we still see projections of progress in Afghanistan. They – let's say – the controversial elections also represent progress in their own way. National Parliament rejected parts of the government of Karzai. It's dramatic, but it's also a kind of progress because institutions are starting to work – more at school, more at health, better roads. It's also dimensions. Parts of Afghanistan where there is no uncertainty must also be lifted. But we are facing a country where there is a very large whole going up in the country, in the countries around and in the region, and where our contribution is an important contribution civilly and militarily. That's what we're trying to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e229	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e232	I want to come back a little bit to what's announced as a changed NATO strategy, and try to get a little bit more meat on my leg when it comes to what you're really talking about from the Government in that way. This is a balance between home and outdoor operations and the balance between operations based on Article 5 and operations not based on Article 5. To try to put it into practice, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he is, for example. believes that the involvement in Afghanistan would be different with such an expected change as has been said by the Government, in the NATO strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e237	That's a big question. What has been the Norwegian recording of this discussion has been that in order to ensure the upsurge and relevance of an alliance that has been a great success, it is important that we remember and anchor the essence of that alliance's existence and our membership, namely our security. This is why Norway has taken the so-called neighbourhood initiative. We focus on our ability to plan, train and be up-to-date in our neighbourhoods. The situation in the neighbourhoods is changing, the northern regions are important to us, the Baltic States, southern Europe, etc. In the modified picture, we have to be able to have two thoughts. Our security depends on what's happening near us, that's on our territory. A great deal of it is not Article 5 challenges, which are fundamental challenges to territorial existence, but other political challenges. Then there is no doubt, in my view, that Afghanistan is a threat to security, not only in Afghanistan and the Afghan people, who suffer, but also in our territory. That's why we're there. So I don't think the commitment would be very different, but we need an up-to-date strategic concept, and we're working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e246	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e249	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish the Minister of Justice a good new year by asking him a question. He was talking about a new year with new possibilities. Then I wonder if there are possibilities for people who have come illegally to Norway and are guilty of criminal acts, because it seems in the evening post today that they have been given better justice. It's easy now that if a criminal act is done, and comes into prison, the government has determined that then it becomes an automatic member of the people's fear. If you do a criminal act and you get one year's imprisonment, you become a member of the population and you have the right to cover health costs and pensions. If one does something even more criminal and ends up in prison for three years, one will also be entitled to a basic pension when one reaches the age of 67. This could be people who behave unlawfully in Norway, and any one of them should have sons at home. Based on that interpretation, sonar in Norway has a right of withdrawal. Helping people is important to the Christian People's Party, but how does the Minister of Justice, who is also Minister of Asylum, assess the signal effect of helping these people in that way, and what is the signal to the environment and to individuals who consider doing criminal acts in Norway? Isn't this really paying for crime and lowering the threshold to commit crime in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e258	It is quite obvious that the government's commitment to making several of the foreign convicted people in the home country has the motive that we believe that no new contacts are being established in Norway and that new crimes are being committed by release. In that light, it is, to say the least, very unfortunate that, when a longer prison sentence is acquitted in Norway, rights are acquired under the law of popular security. There has been a dialogue between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on the understanding of public health legislation, in particular addressing the need for healthcare. Prisoners must be provided with the necessary health care, but an interpretation of the Law on Social Security, which has the effect of acquiring pension rights, it is difficult to live with, to say the least. It sends an unfortunate signal, it's in my opinion contrary to people's general sense of justice, and it doesn't help to make it easier to reduce the chances of crime in the future. I have therefore, after the evening post wrote about this, taken the initiative today early to the Minister of Labour and asked that the Ministry of Labour, along with the Department of Justice, check whether this understanding of the law is correct, and, to the extent that it is, take the initiative to seek to change the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e265	I thank the Minister of Justice for a good answer. I totally agree that it is against people's understanding of justice when one in that way, at least as I see it, becomes aware of doing criminal acts, especially if there is a human being who behaves unlawfully in Norway. That's why it's important for the Christian People's Party to point out that we don't support the interpretation of the law that the Government has had at present, because, as far as I know, the government in the revised budget last year had a different interpretation, which had the opposite effect. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Justice now wants to address it. There is something that will at least be supported by the Christian People's Party. My further question needs to be whether the Minister of Justice is willing to file a case as quickly as possible to clean it up, so that it is better in accordance with people's legal understanding, and so that the signal effect does not become as negative as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e273	Thanks for the support. It is the Minister of Labour's table, this, but I am aware that she has today stated that she will go into this matter. I also assume that to the extent that the law is such as to understand that a person processes pension rights, as the person asks, there is a need for change. Then it's quite natural that there's a problem that she's dealing with, and comes back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e278	There will be three follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e281	I am very pleased with the signal given here by the Minister of Justice. At the same time, I must say that I am not impressed by the coordination within the Government. This is a matter with very clear legal implications, although the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has the formal responsibility. In a government which also has its own Minister for Coordination, this should be done better. My question to the Minister of Justice is whether we can expect in a very short time a new legislation will come that will ensure that people who behave unlawfully here, and who commit criminal acts, will not receive justice from the public, not least pension rights. Can the Minister of Justice confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e288	I am now being challenged to respond to the scope of another Council of State, but as I have stressed several times, there has been contact between me and the Minister of Labour today early on on this question. I am also aware that she has sent out a statement that this is a work that she will handle, and I assume that it will go quickly. With regard to the issue of coordination challenges and how this has been handled in the Government, I have to say that if you look at the process in this case, the Government, as it was correctly said in a previous question, what was the Government's position, in the revised national budget last year. Then there has been an interpretation dispute about the understanding of the People's Rights Act, and it has caused both the directorate and staff in the department to express how the law is to be understood – it came in November. And now we're here. As political leaders of departments, we believe – as far as has also been mentioned here in Stortinget – that there is an unacceptable legal situation, and we will seek to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e295	Åse Michaelsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e298	It's good that we can clarify part of the discussion they have inside the Government, and that they can also listen to each other. It has also been found that seven out of ten foreign nationals as zones in Norwegian prisons, zones for over one year. And when we know that 32 pst. Of those in Norwegian prisons today, who are foreign criminals, it is at least evidence that Storberget – the minister here – has a major challenge in sending them to their homes in the home country. This has been discussed before. I also know that the Council of State has said that he wants Norwegian standards on the foreign compensation – Norwegian conditions. How does the Minister think he will achieve this, both in terms of the rights that are being worked out – which he will now look a little closer to – and, not least, in terms of the settlement conditions? Will one in the home country prisons get some sort of class distinction compared to Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e307	I have not stated that there must be Norwegian relations in foreign prisons. What I've said is that we're now in the process of succeeding in getting more and more people to zone in their home country. The number has increased, but it's too few – I underline it. However, because we need more bilateral agreements and, in particular, because we need to have an accession agreement against the EU in order to get more people to zone in the home country, it may be a very useful tool for us, among other things. use EEA funding mechanisms to assist in the establishment of prisons and criminal services in those countries that are to receive asylum prisoners. It will also be useful to have bilateral cooperation on how to develop a prison standard, among other things. has with the Baltic countries. We have not set the goal of necessarily being a Norwegian standard, but as an instrument for, among other things. It may be useful to help out to attract more people to the country of origin and to have more bilateral agreements — making more countries' ministers of justice contribute to cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e314	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e317	First, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Minister of Justice in this matter has the same feeling of stomach as I think the entire Norwegian people have that this is completely unreasonable. The fact that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour agree on this matter is not surprising – the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has always meant this – but it is the Ministry of Health and Welfare that has pressed through the solution we are now seeing. The question is whether the Minister of Justice has also been in contact with the Minister of Health and Health about this, and whether this matter has been dealt with at a political level before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e324	I became familiar with this interpretation of the law today early, through the Evening Post. I knew I was going to come here – and I know that magnification representatives also read newspapers – so I assumed that this would be a question here. That was the reason why I contacted the Council of State that is responsible for this very legislation quite quickly. I am quite sure that the Government believes it is right that we ensure that the law is both in line with people's sense of law, and – not least – that we get legislation that helps to strengthen the fight we are fighting, especially against foreigners who commit crime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e331	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e335	I also have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Iran should have been one of the world's best countries to live in. Iran is a large and important country, with over 70 million inhabitants. It is the world’s eighth largest energy producer and is therefore of objective interest to Norway. The Norwegian state-run company Statoil is heavy inside Iran. But Iran is one of the world's most corrupt countries, in line with e.g. Cameroon and Yemen, more corrupt than, for example, Mozambique and Ethiopia. Conversion from Islam to Christianity brings punishment. Raped women are at risk of death by stoning. False men are hanged. Minors are sentenced to death and executed. Elementary human rights are systematically violated every day in Iran. In these days, the situation in Iran is at the heart of the situation. Under strong risk of bestial punishment, people in cities throughout the country demonstrate against the dictatorship regime. It is an unmistakable sign of a disintegration regime when the authorities launch police against the country’s own population and shoot with sharp sharpness on its own citizens, shoot to kill – and succeed in doing so. What we're witnessing is a regime that sings in the last verse. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: In view of the current situation in Iran, what will the Government do to the regime in Iran?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e348	It's not good to say what verse you sing in Iran. There is a complex situation, with a revolution living in the governing organs, and a revolution that seems to follow the pattern of other revolutions, namely that a revolution turns into a practice of terror – then becoming a more pure authoritarian regime. We see moves from what we have seen in previous historical phases in other countries, in Iran. The representative gave a wide range of descriptions of the situation in Iran that I am not going to repeat here now, but the situation is serious. It's a task for the Iranian people to deal with that situation. I believe that democratic forces working for human rights, the rule of law and democracy deserve Norwegian support. And they will. Norway is distancing itself from the use of force, the violence and oppression taking place in Iran. We're saying that -- there's no doubt about it in Iran. We have, unfortunately, limited relations with this country today. It's a people who probably want to be part of the international community, a people who don't have the fundamentalist spinal reflexes that the regime has, where a revolutionary guard now seems to take more and more control. The central theme of the international community’s relationship with Iran has been the nuclear programme. There, 1 January 2010 represented a date when the Americans and the international community had otherwise called for clarification of the status of the nuclear programme. That question has not been clarified. This means that we are going into a phase where the IAEA still has doubts, where the countries of the Security Council will again address the issue of sanctions in relation to Iran. We will follow that discussion closely and be prepared to support actions by the international community towards the regime. It's not good for anyone and everyone to sit and assess the quality of this nuclear program. We recognise that Iran is entitled to civil use, but we follow the IAEA's assessment, and it is not reassuring in this way, so that we will have Iran high on the agenda in many contexts beyond 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e359	I thank you for your answer. I would like to ask, since the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned this with the support of oppositionals, support for those who are now fighting against the regime and dictatorship in Iran: will the Foreign Minister make concrete contact with the Iranian authorities, possibly through those who are left at the Iranian embassy here in Oslo, to say clearly that we in Norway will support those who oppose the regime they represent, we will support those oppositionals who are fighting for democracy and human rights in Iran?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e366	I think we need to find the balance between expressing very clearly our view of the principles of human rights – the right to say from, the right to do political work – and not being one that goes in and takes sides among different oppositional sides in Iran. I don't think either the representative Myhre or I have a full overview of it. Here, then, there are representatives of an opposition who have lived under difficult conditions for many years. And I want to take a step back to pick part of this opposition. What we have to work for is that we have democratic rights, that people have the right to express themselves and that people have the right to benefit from universal human rights. We communicate this very clearly to Iran. We have done so regularly in relation to human rights issues, death sentences, etc., by calling the embassy staff here in Oslo, through our embassy in Iran and in many other international contexts, in the United Nations, etc. So there is absolutely no doubt in Iran that we support the right of democracy in Iran and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e371	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e374	It is reassuring to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also involved in the place of democracy in Iran, because it is undoubtedly important for everyone. Clearly, the more democratic Iran is, the better it will be for everyone. I also realized that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was clear that the UN is a main tool for assisting and working against the forces that exist in Iran. But it's probably also that Iran is very isolated as a nation and has few support players, and the supporters they have are quite controversial, including in the world community. Then my question becomes: does the Foreign Minister see any possibility of possibly using some of the controversial friends that Iran has to influence, so that you can actually improve the everyday lives of the thousands who want a better life in Iran? Iran has a great story if we go further back in that way. Is there such a complex situation now that alternative solutions that can be used in parallel with what else we do through the UN system should also be resorted to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e379	First, I would like to say that I fully agree that Iran is a country with a proud and rich tradition and culture, and the Iranian people are important to have close cooperation with. It's a little unclear to me what controversial friends the representative is aiming for, but if that's what I think he means, then I'm going to assume that working against them to bring about changes in Iran, I don't think it's a very dangerous way. They're few, and they're in many ways of the same school, so I think we have to work on getting the most global international community to end up with very clear demands in terms of nuclear programs and in terms of what can be called spoiler activities from Iran in the region and elsewhere. Then I believe that we need to stick to the UN Security Council as an important body to take such decisions – they have taken decisions earlier, new decisions can come along that way – and that we also maintain close contact with the countries that share the universal values that we are committed to and send clear messages through them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e384	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e387	1 January 2010 was an important date that Iran did not realize was important to them. Again, Iran has not answered questions from the IAEA about its nuclear programme. In the light of previous questions about NATO's strategic concept, it would have been interesting to know from the Minister of Foreign Affairs what input Norway has made in the development of NATO's strategic concept of Iran's potential as a nuclear power. The probability is, when you read the documents from the IAEA, that within the coming period of NATO's new strategic concept, you can get an Iran with nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e392	It's not like NATO's basic documents are singled out in individual countries and say what is our strategy in relation to it or in relation to it. NATO should be an alliance that ensures us against threats that are dangerous to our security, our peace and our stability and our values, and then it says itself that threats from countries that acquire missile technology, and must have an intention to hit NATO countries, will stand up for and defend itself against. It's as simple as saying it like that. And we notice that the current discussions in NATO about the so-called missile defence, or if we say a further developed version of it, have focused more on the missile threats that may exist – the new missile threats – among other things. from this region and including from Iran. There is a discussion in which Norway participates in the debate on NATO’s strategic concept. But, as I said, there are more threats of a general nature than choosing individual countries, and I think that's a wise strategy from the alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e397	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e401	We feel that the Iranian regime is under pressure, and when the regime is under pressure, getting focus on other things is often part of a strategy, and then it's good with an outside enemy. We now experience that Iran is giving the world an ultimatum. Accept our demands, or we start the production of nuclear fuel, is what is the signal of the Iranian regime. Then my question to the foreign minister: what is a wise response to exactly this kind of ultimatum, where one wants to create an external enemy very clearly? How does the Foreign Minister evaluate it, what should be a wise response to the Iranian regime, which now wants very clearly an external enemy, to get focus away from what is now trembling under the regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e406	Firstly, I think the analysis of the representative Hareide is correct, that it is a regime that has come to look for external enemies. There may be one thing like the nuclear programme, which is gathering quite widely in Iran. We need to be aware of this. Much of what we call the opposition are hot supporters of the nuclear program. There could also be external enemies outside the borders, Israel. It could be countries in the region. What's a wise strategy? That's a big question. I think it's a balance between, on the one hand, searching for solutions, using the IAEA, using the negotiating trail that central European countries and the United States have made, using the possibility of an open door that the Americans have given Iran, and at the same time being very clear on the consequences of non-compliance. Iran has had many opportunities to enter open doors and find solutions that can give them a good, civil nuclear program. According to the IAEA, which is the one we have to deal with, they haven't used these possibilities. That means that the instrument must also be there as a real threat. It is the role of the United Nations, it is the role of the Security Council, and it is the permanent members of the Security Council who have a special role to play. Norway will respect and follow them if such measures are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e415	We move on to the next, and last, main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e418	I have a question for Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. The jury has been discussing the whole issue since it was introduced. With the jury system, players were included in the courts. This has contributed positively for more than 120 years, but it has not been said that the scheme should last forever. The jury gives no reason for its decision, which is the biggest weakness of the jury's order today. Without justification, it is not possible to know what the jury has built its decision on or how it has assessed the evidence. It also makes it difficult in relation to resuming the case. In a modern democracy, it is unacceptable that the most incisive decisions are taken in confined spaces without public scrutiny of the debates and arguments other than a short yes or no. The Court of Justice has recently stated that, together with members of the jury, it is precisely a matter of justifying a conviction, and for the Right, it is problematic for the trade unions, which have not participated in the decision on the guilt issue, to justify the assessment of evidence carried out by the jury. We can also get jury members who have believed that the defendant was innocent, but who still have to justify the conviction. The right wants primarily to replace the jury with an extended co-judgment, which justifies its decisions and where the majority are toys. Right now we have a unclear legal state, as it is the Storting's duty to rectify in as quickly as possible. There is also a majority in the Grand Duchy to change the jury order. That is why the representative, Mr Dahl, asked a written question in November about the views of the Minister of Justice on the jury order. Then the answer was that the Council had not taken a decision. But now my question about the state council has come to the same conclusion as the national meetings of both the Right Party and the Labour Party, namely that the jury system is ripe for replacement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e433	It's no secret what the Workers' Party thinks about the jury system. We have a national vote on that, as the representative of Skogrand also pointed out. It is partly motivated by what I understand Right's decision is motivated by, and to the extent that those who want changes to the jury's system also motivate their amendments on the basis of: the need for more detailed justification. I would also like to point out that the judgment of the Supreme Court of 13 November last year, which points out the obligation of the tradesmen to justify the judgment, is aimed in particular at the criminal convictions. Those who have claimed lack of justification in jury cases have often referred to the criminal prosecution arguments. There's also a lot of reason for what you think is proven in criminal matters. It is this way, in my opinion, that the jury system is very central to Norwegian democracy, and very central to the way in which playwrights participate in the criminal court. That is why we need to take time to find a model that meets the need for justification, while at the same time taking care of the very important aspect of ordinary people participating in the criminal court. We just need more and more of that. We have often debated it in the Storting; more and more punishment is required. That's the strictest coercion we can use as civil power. It also demands that it has great legitimacy and upswing in the population. That's why it's necessary to be able to participate in the play. That's why I've said that we want to take the time to find a new model, and we're now considering reducing a sample to look at the participation of children in the criminal justice court as such. It could be that e.g. The Right Party and the Labour Party have a majority in the United Kingdom and can impose some sort of system, but on this issue, I believe it is important to bring together as broad a political majority as possible to ensure political legitimacy around such an important system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e444	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I was not quite clear when Stortinget will have a case for discussion related to this. We have 120 years of experience in the jury system. So I wonder if the Council of State can specify a little bit more what it is he wants to figure out, and how much more knowledge we need now after a majority in the Grand Council, after all, is in favour of a change and the national meetings of the parties have done the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e451	What we need time for is to figure out the cumulative model. One thing is that a large majority wants change, but you don't agree on what kind of change you want. Are you going to involve people in the jury who are going to help give reasons, or are you going to develop a great right of co-determination that you have in many other criminal cases, which are the Workers' Party and the Right's position, or are you going to find other kinds of solutions? That's where I think we should be able to take the time to find what is a collapsing and good solution. That's why I believe that a sample work in this area seems to be necessary, and that's what the government is now working against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e456	There will be two follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e459	It is in principle very suspicious and unsustainable that the Stortinget as legislator has come all the way back after the Supreme Court's decision to remove the jury's grounds in certain cases. This is rocking by the distribution of power in democracy, and is a situation in which the Storting is difficult to live for a long time. Pending new criminal law, the Council of State, with the support of the Right, has taken action to ensure the early entry into force of some of the new criminal provisions, i.e. a kind of transitional arrangement between an old and a new law. In the light of the somewhat eye-catching decision of the Supreme Court, and pending a larger and more fundamental case, which the Council of State here suggests may take some time, can the Storting expect the Minister of Justice to present a separate case for the swiftest possible restoration of a normal situation, where it is actually the Stortinge which lays down the procedural rules of the courts of the country? And in that case, when can you expect to get such a thing to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e466	I do not know whether the representative Aspaker and the undersigned have read the same verdict from the Supreme Court. The judgment delivered on 13 November does not require justification from the jury, as the representative now claims. If that were the case, we would have had a big challenge. It imposes on the tradesmen a justification for the punishment and judgment to be given. You also do so in part today, but as I understand the Court of Justice, in the case in question, that is not enough. So we're not in the situation that the Storting relative to the jury question is completely behind us. I assume that the Right and the rest of the opposition agree with me that one should now try to find a solution that gathers wide, all that time, among other things. in the opposition there is a significant gap in how to solve this problem. And that's what the government is aiming for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e471	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e475	What the Council of State here says is that there is a complete disagreement within the Government on this issue, and that the Government and the Council of State are unable to conclude on what solution should be chosen. It is an unfortunate signal to send out about action paralysis in the Government in this matter. The Progress Party wants to keep the jury order, but we want the jury to justify its decisions, this because the jury order is well anchored in the Norwegian people, as the Council of State also said in its first post. But what is clear is that both this debate in the Grand Duchy today, the judgment of the Supreme Court and the media writings that have now been in the fall of space, show that there is considerable uncertainty and uncertainty about this. And we can't get into a situation where we're at risk that the Supreme Court is now starting to lift the judge from the law because of this. Will the Council of State come to Stortinget with a case on this during 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e484	With all due respect to reporting: the Jury issue is one of the most fundamental elements of the criminal justice area in terms of the democratic aspect and the participation of ordinary people. If the representative of Kielland Asmyhr is to be believed that there is a complete gap in the government – which I do not think it is in this case, we agree on the process to be chosen, and we also want to invite the opposition to join in in order to achieve a new and collapsing solution – it is therefore that the sea in the opposition has diametrically opposite views. The Advance Party wants to retain the jury, while it wants a great deal of co-decision in e.g.: Right. Here, we should be able to put some of the party politics stick aside and say that this is such an important question that we can get together on a broad and coherent solution that has connection also to the population. I'm very concerned about it. Because in the future these courts are going to take more and more important decisions that affect people very strongly, both the sentence and those who are victims of crime, the solution should be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e491	That concludes the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-06.ana.ud1340e504	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
