ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e55	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen from 11 June to 18 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Martin Henriksen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e74	Martin Henriksen is present and wants to take a seat. The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e79	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Lars Myraune, Svein Harberg and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for an action plan for crossing tracks and measures for increasing the capacity of goods on Norwegian rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e84	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e102	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and State Council Rigmor Aasrud 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e113	Storing message No. 13 on the Presidency function in the Bishops' Meeting in the Norwegian Church has received relatively much attention this spring, or rather, there was a lot of attention before the paper was available, and the attention was focused on one and only on where a twelfth bishop who was pressured for the Church should have his case. There was a strange debate in which the opposition to the Storting could hardly participate before the premises in the case were presented. Many have also been excited about this matter, as it is the first major issue of the Church and the Church's organization after the so-called Church Agreement, the agreement that was concluded between all the parties on 10 April 2008 and that is leading the processes around a distinction between the Church and the State. The agreement placed great emphasis on strengthening the Church's internal democracy, and that is precisely what has also been done in the work on the new arrangement to strengthen the function of the Bishops' Meeting. The matter we are dealing with today has its background in the fact that the Church has approached the department with a desire to strengthen the press function on the basis of the experience you have with today's system. The tasks of pressure are difficult to perform in combination with the great task of the bishops in their own supervisory area. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 34 for 2008-2009, Amendment to the Norwegian Church Act, asked the Church, Education and Research Committee for a separate case to the Stortinget after the Church had come up with a proposal for a solution. The government therefore ordered an opinion from the Church on how to strengthen the press function. This has taken the Church seriously and carried out extensive processes both in the College of Bishops and in the other democracy in the Church. The matter as it stands today contains three important elements that the Church itself has raised. First, and it must be regarded as the most important thing, the Government meets the Church’s desire to establish a twelfth bishopship for pressure. The Office shall have a limited geographical area of oversight. The Committee agrees that this is a good way to strengthen the pressure function. Having a separate supervisory area is important and will be a valuable contact with the community and its employees for pressure. It is important to bear in mind that this must be regarded as the beginning of a longer process for which the Church itself must take responsibility, but the Committee has assumed that at this stage it will strengthen the present system of pressure without significant changes in the tasks. The Committee further points to the importance of follow-up to the Communication on strengthening the Secretariat of the Bishops' Meeting, and expects funds both for this and for the operation of the new office to be placed in the State budget for 2011. The agreement of the Committee on the matter ends with this part of the notification. With the creation of a new office, a debate on localisation emerged. The Church has argued that it is important that the Church has overall and coordinated management, and therefore that the tasks are carried out in close relation to the other management of the Church. The church house is located in Oslo, and the Church therefore believes that pressure should be located in Oslo. The government points to an overall picture, where they also want to strengthen and highlight the Church's historical affiliation, and has proposed to locate pressure in Trondheim with a supervisory area attached to the cathedral of Nidarus. The opposition parties believe that the Church's opinion and attitude must be respected in relation to the Church's own organisation. The last element that has been processed, which is a consequence of the other elements, is the process of nomination and appointment of pressures. The Church proposes an internal democratic nomination process ending with one recommended candidate. As pressure is to be assigned to an office, the final appointment must, of course, take place in the Council of State. The government proposes that the Church appoint three candidates in order to give the government a real opportunity to choose a candidate. The opposition parties consider that the regulation of the Bishops' Meeting should apply as much as possible also in this situation, and believe that when pressing is to be chosen by and among the sitting bishops, the Church's proposal to appoint a person must be respected. The right is pleased and attaches great importance to the church settlement. The right-wing programme clearly establishes the importance of the right of the Church and other religious communities to govern themselves. This matter is the first in a series where the Church must take seriously the democratic challenge they have received, and where the Church was to put the leadership for a new, future organization. I must therefore say that it surprises me when the government parties at the first crossroads seem to have forgotten what they themselves add up to. I am not thinking about the result of the choice of places. Depending on what you're thinking, I think there's a lot of us who could choose both Trondheim, Oslo and maybe elsewhere. What surprises is the government's arguments for going against the Church's recommendation. First, they point out that they have given attention to the same tasks of new pressure that the Church has. In the next breath, they have put considerable emphasis on history, tradition and symbols. Then they focus on a significant minority in the case. This is where democracy comes in to principles that have so far been unknown. If such a practice is to be used, I have to say that I look forward to future treatment in this room, where, in my opinion, there is often an overwhelming minority. Speaking of that – after the debate in the government parties and their opinions, it is well in this case that a majority of the representatives who believe the Church's recommendation should be followed, but I am afraid it will not be reflected in the vote this afternoon. The right is that in the Bishops' Meeting there was a majority of ten against one, and in the Church's meeting there was more than two thirds majority for the position. Clearly, it cannot be said according to the normal democratic principles. As a last, strange argument, the government points out that this must be regarded as a temporary arrangement pending a more permanent system of pressure. How that might be an argument for going against the Church's position, I think the government parties themselves have to take responsibility for explaining us. Finally, I would like to point out that perhaps in my opinion, the most serious and most frightening grip the government takes on this matter. Press is to be regarded as a trusted one among the bishops, a spokesman on behalf of the college assigned tasks which they trust to do in a good way on behalf of all of them. All the bishops have already been appointed by the King of the Council of States, and the presidents are elected by and among them. The Church has proposed to continue this, but to extend the democratic process internally. Again, the Church shows that they take seriously the challenge they have faced in strengthening democracy. The right considers that there is a limit to the distrust of the Bishops' College when government parties ask for a nomination of three priority candidates in order not to restrict the government's freedom to choose a candidate. In reality, this will be the opposite, as they have not previously been involved in the selection of pressures. Everyone agrees that one after today's law must at last appoint the 12th bishop of the state council as part of the new office, but to demand real opportunity to review the bishops' choice of presidents indicates an attitude that I had at least never thought I would hear from the representatives of the Workers' Party. I wish that, in this debate and in the vote this afternoon, we will experience that representatives of the government parties will realize that the overarching of the Church here has gone too far, but is afraid so not happening. A localisation debate destroyed the handling of this matter. The right in the matter has been sunny in its primitive vision. We recognize the Church's right to make decisions and will respect them. We look forward to the work of creating a new, vital and strong people's church. We can also promise that in the further work, provided that the Church continues the good work they have started to strengthen democracy, we will listen to the Church and uphold their right to rule themselves. If we disagree with the Church, we will give them advice and commit ourselves, but the final result we will respect. I hope the Church, despite the results of this case, continues its good work of building a strong and good organization that can drive the Church further into an exciting future. Finally, I would like to address the minority's proposal in the matter. When it comes to voting, I would ask for the possibility to be able to support one of the proposals by voting on the proposals individually.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e147	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e150	Both the Bishops' Meeting and the Church Meeting have made it clear that there is a need to strengthen the press function in the Norwegian Church in the form of the appointment of a twelfth bishop. The Storting gave its principal support to such a strengthening of the press function in April 2009 and at the same time asked the government to file a case for the Stortinget. First, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to thank the case spokesman for a well-worked job. This matter has been thoroughly dealt with in many bodies. The Bishops' Meeting and the Church Meeting have both given their opinions. In addition, we have also experienced enormous involvement around the country from local folklore, various parish councils, regional media and the melancholy church member. In line with the Church's recommendations, the Workers' Party is in favour of the creation of a twelfth bishop's office to strengthen the Presidency function in the Bishop's Meeting without creating a new ordinary bishop's example. The working party also supports the overall assessment that the new office should be located at Trondheim. When the State-Church Committee presented its report on the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church, the then-Church Minister invited it to one of Norway's largest group work. This group work was large. A lot of people thought that interest in church matters would fade away after this process. But we have, on the contrary, experienced the opposite. Interest in church matters is very great. This shows that church and religious questions are important to the Norwegian people. That is why it should also be important for us politicians. The main objective of the State and the Norwegian Church was to secure an open, secure and democratic church – a broad popular church. The team work has created a formidable commitment. People's desire for democratic participation in the church is just joyous. Listening means listening. The fact that so many people have spent a lot of time and the power of speech obliges us to take over the signals that have come. We have listened to this case, and it surprises me that the opposition owes the majority of people to overrun the Church. We cannot abdicate as politicians, even if we are in a process of transferring the administration of the Church to the Church itself. We still have a state church, and it is still up to the Storting to decide on these matters. I think there are a lot of people in the Church who are happy about the decision we're going to make today, and a lot of people are probably very welcome to the broad people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e173	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. This is a matter that has created great commitment both among those elected to church bodies, as well as members and indeed among people who are not members of the Church, and in many different media. This shows that the Church is of great importance to many. The exposure is fully understandable, when we know that state and church are in the middle of a process where a voluntary ‘divorce’ is to be introduced. Nevertheless, executive authorities do not refrain from abuse their power almost immediately before the divorce takes place, and at the top of it all, the government claims that it is important to show political responsibility in the choice of who should hold the presidency, and therefore demands to have three names to choose from in connection with the appointment. The majority of the population's total arrogance and overrun of the Church in this matter has been a sympathetic notion. I am afraid that the overrun of the majority of the population by the Church's own choice in this matter is part of building up the allegation of political contempt. Here, the democratically elected body in the Church, by a large majority, has moved in to make the placement of new presidents most useful in Oslo. The government parties ignore the Church's view and ignore the need that the Church stresses that the position should be held, which the government itself agrees to take care of. Government parties rely on minority wishes that have not been won out in the various church forums that have dealt with the placement of pressure. In Norway, we have democracy. The majority of the population gives this word a whole new meaning. Usual practice is to bow to the majority, after the case has been dealt with by the legally elected decision-making body. One of the arguments used by the majority for its decision in the case is that the press position should make the millennial history of the Church visible and strengthen Trondheim as a national church centre, although the position should have essentially the same tasks as today. The Progress Party believes that Trondheim’s historical significance as an important church center is just as good, even if pressure is placed and held in the capital. If positions are to be set up to safeguard the historical significance of the Church and the importance of old Nidaros as a national church centre, we believe that there are other positions worthy of promoting this. Since the majority focus on these arguments, it's a little strange that they don't promote a separate case about this. This election is also a bit strange, considering what the minister has answered questions from the Progress Party in relation to the Church's economy. The answer suggests that she expects the Church to operate as economically as possible. Is it, then, to understand that such a location by one that many are described as a flying pressure will provide good economic operation? Having a place which, according to the content of the vacancy, requires many journeys between Trondheim and the capital – which will also require two dwellings – is it the most efficient operation of the Church? Overrun of the Church's democratically elected body and their decisions do not stop with the location of pressures. The Church asks to elect one of the three already royally appointed bishops to its president, which the Church has otherwise always done itself, without state interference. The government responds by demanding three options in order of priority. This can be interpreted in different ways. The eleven who are elective are not politically correct and thus not fit in the eyes of the government, or it is clearly a sign that the government parties will demonstrate their power over the people's church. Usually this is called kicking someone who's already lying down, and that's something that's considered very unfine. The Progress Party believes that the Church itself knows what it is best served to do in caring for an active and open church and as part of the implementation of the forthcoming church settlement, which also means strengthening contact and interaction between presidents, other church leaders and other institutions. Since the government and the Minister of the Church have imposed substantial housing and travel expenses on this matter, the Progress Party expects the government to also ensure that additional expenditure is fully covered in the future government budget. The Advance Party supports both the Church's choice of location for president and by whom the Church chooses as president. We therefore do not support the promotion of three proposals in their names. The party of progress has confidence that the Church itself determines which of the eleven royally appointed bishops is most suitable. It is also time to remember that even the Center Party, which has made this a location issue, finds it most practical to have its headquarters in the capital. Then the Church should also be allowed to do this. It was also encouraging to hear the Vice President of the Workers' Party on television, as she argued that there is no need to be physically present at meetings. The Church can use new technology – it does other businesses. This statement was probably intended to give the Centre Party and its own local politicians a political victory. The Church's own needs are entirely set aside in the proceedings, and the Church itself has stated that the matter has grown to be about the establishment of a new archbishop symbol. But the starting point was something quite different. This is about creating a better interaction between the administration of the Church's office and advice. But the Church has been out for a winter night before – and it's done. It probably does this time too, but the great majority's overrun by the Church makes me quite disappointed. In contrast to the majority in this case, the Progressive Party takes seriously the Church settlement – which intends to give the Church autonomy – and believes that the Church should be independent and not centralized by politicians or used for political games.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e203	SV agrees that the stress function needs to be developed, it needs to be strengthened. Today's decision marks this, but what it will become is more open. It depends on the further work on, among other things. to implement the church settlement. In particular, it must be the church bodies that provide the form and content of the press function, precisely because it is now to be developed further in the future, and perhaps to mention what is likely to become a main theme beyond the debate here, look at this with location, where this pressure function is to be placed. It has the possibility of resuming later, if desired. We are very pleased that the message – and that is quite correct – in Chapter 3.5 emphasises that the arrangements that are now being adopted will have a temporary impact, precisely because we are starting a development and a strengthening, and this work will continue to continue in the future. It's a public secret, as everyone knows, that the SV's primary position was to follow Kirk's clear majority position in terms of location. It's about, as we saw, taking the consequence that we've adopted an increasing – that is, political – distinction between church and state. At the same time: let's not raise the temperature unnecessarily high in this location debate. Using terms such as ‘wonderful’, ‘intimidating’ and ‘misstillite’ as the rapporteur has done, we seem to be over-dimensioning and over-dramatizing everything. Both locations, both solutions will work. It's also a disagreement – we've really seen it in the debate – both within the Church, and here in my script it's all political parties, at least in most political parties, as it's usually in matters where geography and localization are part of it. It is, as I said, possible if this becomes very wrong for the church of its own, perhaps to relocate pressure. So I think what we're going to focus on is to put this a little bit behind us. A decision will be taken today, and many people will have to work actively on this. For those of us sitting on the outside, it's going to be exciting to follow the development that's about to take place, and we're going to try to help make this a good solution for the Church and for the Norwegian community as a whole. In any case, good luck first to recruit and then to fill the function with content.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e214	The discussion of the establishment of a twelfth bishopship has led to a lively debate both within the Church and among politicians and people most. After the process, as the rapporteur has explained, the Norwegian Church was asked for feedback on the supervisory function and the service district, on proposals for the choice of terms and working hours. Three different models were requested for the scheme, as well as any temporary arrangements. With a much more limited geographical area of oversight than in the other dioceses, the twelfth bishop will have better time and ability to exercise the pressure function. It provides opportunities to represent the Church in a more visible way and better capacity to lead the College of Bishops. The new pressure role will be molded with the one that is appointed. It will speak on behalf of the Church, take responsibility for the interaction in the Church and ensure the integrity. Much of the debate in this case has been related to the place of employment and the appointment process. The Central Party has programmed that we want a twelfth bishop, and that this position should be linked to Nidaros. It has therefore been quite natural for us to work for the new office to be assigned there. As I have pointed out at the outset, the new twelfth bishop, in cooperation with his colleagues in the Bishops' Meeting, will help to shape a new role for pressure. Then the place of employment is not immaterial. History, tradition and symbols have a meaning. Nidarosdom symbolizes a millennial church history and represents with its legacy the Church as a symbol. It's until Nidaros' pilgrimage goes, and it's until the kings of Nidaros Norway have traveled to crown or be blessed. If Nidarosdom had been in Haugesund or Oslo, it would have been a natural location. The new bishop’s office will now have offices in Trondheim and will be able to use the Archebishop’s yard for representation activities. It will also be provided for its own accommodation in Trondheim. Then there's a discussion about how much time the pressure must be in Trondheim, whether it thinks he or she comes within a day of the week, or whether he or she has to stay there for a certain number of days. To that I would say that the new pressure role probably entails some travel activities both to other dioceses, to the rest of the world and to the capital. It's natural. But it's in Trondheim the accommodation will be given. I would also say that it would be very strange, or very funny, if it is so that the new twelfth bishop would preferably avoid being present in his own diocese. I think this will fall naturally when we get that far. Then we are attacked to outrun democracy in the Norwegian Church. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget has asked for feedback from Kirka about which models they thought were best suited. That doesn't mean that we as big-time representatives are going to give up our jobs as elected representatives. There is still a state church in Norway, and that means that it is our duty to evaluate the recordings that have come from Kirka's elected bodies, but also listen to other voices that are not directly represented in the Church Meeting, before we make our decision. Let me stress that it is still the King of the Council of State who is the head of the Norwegian Church. So for how pressure is to be appointed. The Church wants to point out a candidate to be their foremost spokesman or spokeswoman, and that's understandable. Nevertheless, the appointment is a little special this time, because it is not just pressure that is to be chosen, but one is also to appoint a new 12th bishop. So this time, two processes are merged into one, and pressure is chosen after the church bodies have made proposals for three different candidates that they think can play such a role in a good way. The fact that one has three candidates to assess has raised concerns, but I'm sure that Kirka will find good candidates, which will seem to be an exciting challenge to be the first in the new role. In principle, one could also imagine that pressure should be selected from a wider range than the sitting bishops. This has been put dead in this round, but I would encourage the Church to assess this at a later appointment, when one has become better acquainted with what the new role will be like. The center party thinks we've got a good solution. I am also sure that Nidaros will be a good position, and that Kirka will seize the new opportunities in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e235	Freedom of belief and life, together with freedom of expression, is fundamental in a democratic society. This means that the state should not interfere with the beliefs and beliefs of individuals. It also implies that the internal affairs of different religious communities must be respected by the State — the State must not interfere with the inner life, functioning and organisation of religious communities. The matter we are dealing with today is not a matter for or against Trondheim. It is also not a matter for or against Oslo. There are good arguments for both geographic locations, but the point is that the Church itself has been crystal clear. That's why this issue is about freedom of belief and their self-determination, it's about whether we're going to address the severe restrictions of international conventions as to the right of public authorities to intervene in organizational matters in religious societies as well. Today's pressurisation system is not working optimally. It involves a lot of travel, especially back and forth to Oslo, which is unsustainable from an environmental and family perspective. Therefore, the Church’s organs have asked for the appointment of a twelfth bishop — a press with headquarters in Oslo, justified by the fact that it brings closeness to the church and state organs, which can relieve the other bishops. On the basis of freedom of faith, this will be a matter of internal organisation, and should therefore be respected by the State. But the government makes it amazing enough a district policy case and chooses to overlook the freedom of belief in this matter. This isn't counterpower, this is power abuse. Presses shall be located in Trondheim because the government places ‘essential emphasis on considerations relating to history, tradition and symbols’, it says in the Communication. The new press position will be an answer to a question that the Church has never asked. The Church asks for a function, but the government gives them a symbol. It's an outrageous treatment of a religious community, and I think you should look for a long time to find something similar. The most serious thing is, however, that the government today will secure further power over the Church through a completely new electoral system for pressure. The government parties in Stortinget state in their reasons that: ‘the ecclesiastical bodies have proposed that the bishops sitting on the floor should make proposals for a candidate for appointment. The majority believe that this would be unfortunate, as it would restrict the government’s freedom to assess who should be nominated and appointed’. This isn't entirely consistent with reality, to say it mildly. It is the government that with this restricts the Bishop's own power to choose terms. It is important to realize that there are two electoral arrangements to unite – that is the choice of a bishop for a diocese, and that is the choice of pressure. In the choice of bishop, it is right that the government has been able to choose between three nominated candidates who have emerged through church processes, even though the church settlement now states that the Church will soon have to do this on its own. In terms of pressure, this choice has been different. He is elected by and among the bishops seated. What the government is now doing is appreciating the Church's right to choose its own pressure. And if you see something of what a religion is, you'll understand that this is a strong intervention by the state. This is an attack on freedom of belief, and it undermines the whole process of thinking behind the state-church reconciliation. It is alarming that the government in the first case, after the settlement of the total, runs the Church and seizes more power than it had before. The Church is in the process of implementing its democratic reform, which will make it more representative. The government, on its side, chooses to outrun the same democracy. Why in all days should people engage in church democracy when they know that the government doesn't want to deal with it anyway? This sends a very bad signal into the further process. I think the government needs a more democratic reform than the Norwegian Church does when we see how this matter has been dealt with. The Communication states that, after the Storting's examination of the notification, the Ministry will follow up the case in contact with church bodies to find good practical solutions. I hope that they will do more than listen – perhaps even act – so that the Church's autonomy is respected in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e257	The center party referred to its pompous program, and I would like to quote the princely program of the Left, where it says: ‘Left will separate state and church and have confidence that members will develop the Norwegian Church as a broad people’. That's the principle view of the Left. We've been against the state church system for a long time. The reason for this is both that we want a more active church in the public debate, and that we believe that it is wrong for a state to own a religious society. I can imagine how the government might intervene when we're going to get a nice new mosque on Furuset: that it might have to be somewhere else. Or the two great Catholic environments in Trondheim and Oslo: that we might rather decide that they should be in the Church and the Ålesund, for the sake of district politics? It's actually the way that religious communities have to control themselves. Democracy must apply. I believe that democracy in the different religious communities will develop them to become broad religious communities that do not open up extreme outcomes in any areas. It does something with respect for them that one actually participates in developing a good society, where faith and state live together in the way a faith and a state will live together. So for the left, travel distance is completely immaterial. For us, too, which church is prettiest, completely immaterial. Which church is the oldest is completely immaterial. Which church you think it's true that the King goes to sometimes, and which one thinks it's convenient to have offices next door, I think I'm also completely immaterial. What is the important principle is about: Should the Church be allowed to decide on its sea, or should a state decide on a religious community? The left is very positive that we're now getting a pressure. I think it will help to make the Church's participation in the public debate perhaps better. I want a religious community active in the political debate, active in the social debate and active social actor, and perhaps a role of pressure will contribute to it. At least I hope so. But when you have to choose one of three, it's also about a lack of understanding of the role the state has had and should have in this regard. The self-base of the church settlement is about, as the Left sees it, strengthening the democratic function of the Church, ensuring that we now have a democracy that works better. I believe that the main reason why democracy in the Church has not worked is that it has not been important. We all know that when elections are important, with clear alternatives and with clear mobilization factors, people vote. It is clear that when I, as a member of the Old Oslo Council, have so much power in choosing who should be my bishop, like any prostite of Hamar, it undermines the understanding of how important such choices are in fact. We have to take democratic action, and we did so in the church settlement. It stretched the Church towards more democracy and more membership control. That's the left very much for. Then it is clear that the choice of one in three in the Norwegian government has been to compensate for the inequality in participation in church elections that you have actually had. The fact that the government has had that choice in the election of bishops has made sure that we've got a wider people's church than if we hadn't had it, because of so low participation in elections. Now we are in a process of strengthening both church democracy and membership democracy in the Church, and then this will become less and less important to a state and to a government. I hope that we get rid of it, and that church democracy can make that choice. The choice of presidents is something completely different, because it's a trusted one among the bishops you actually have. I see no reason to make the correction that the government has made earlier in this area. Then I must say I'm happy in Trondheim. Calling a place in Trondheim for district policy seems to me to be insulting to that city. You have to stop insulting Trondheim by saying that it's just a district. Then it's all of these times that are going to lead to that you don't have to determine the sea. When it comes to developing a democracy, it might be time to let people try to decide how to make such important choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e286	I am pleased that the Committee unanimously supports the establishment of a twelfth bishop's office to strengthen the office of President of the Bishop's Meeting in the Norwegian Church. This is in line with the wishes of the Church and with the proposals of the department in the communication. That is precisely what this matter is primarily about. Today’s organisation of the press agency has become increasingly challenging. The press of the day shall be not only press but also ordinary bishop in an ordinary diocese. Both roles are labour-intensive, and I have a great understanding that pressure today can experience being drawn between two strong commitments: loyalty to one's own diocese and the rich demands. This is the main reason why the framework conditions for the performance of the stress function should be strengthened. We are in a challenging period for the Norwegian Church, where the broad agreement between state and church is to be followed up. It makes it particularly important to strengthen the Bishops' Meeting and to provide good conditions for the bishops and the staff to be active in the implementation of the church settlement. The question of strengthening the press function was just raised for the Storting in connection with the democratic reform and the church settlement. The democratic reform is being implemented to strengthen the elected ecclesiastical bodies. I also think it is important to strengthen the Bishop's Meeting, so that we can maintain the good balance and the cooperation between what is called the office and advice in the church governance structure. That's how I see the establishment of a twelfth bishopship as part of the follow-up to the church settlement. The Committee considers the high level of involvement in this matter to be positive and important. So do I. I have experienced a broad commitment to the matter. The Ministry has received many enquiries from individuals and various bodies that have had some strong opinions on the matter. I perceive that as a message that the Church means too many, and that there are many who want to take part in the discussion about the Church's future. I would like – like the Committee – to hope and believe that there is also a sign that the process of democratisation in the Church actually works and that it contributes to the active involvement of more people in church issues. The Norwegian Church is supposed to be a people's church – looser ties between state and church, but there will be stronger ties between people and church. I note that the entire Committee also supports essential elements of the scheme as described in the Communication, including: that the 12th Bishop is to supervise a limited area and that pressure is to carry out essentially the same tasks as it is today. However, the minority in the Committee is ‘wonderful that the government’s position goes beyond the church’s clear opinion on several essential points’. I would like to stress that the opinions of the Church have been important in the government's handling of the matter. At the same time, the government of today's church system has both authority and autonomy to assess the issues raised by this case. The government has done so, and the government has assessed some of the elements of the arrangement differently from the majority of the church bodies. It is well known that there have also been shared opinions on, for example, church authorities. the question of location. In particular with regard to the choice of places, I would like to point out that the arguments relating to history, tradition and symbols have also been presented in the church proceedings. The government has believed that these arguments are weighty and have highlighted in particular the symbolic power that lies in a lashing in Nidarosdomen and the Archbishop’s yard. I would like to add that many in the public debate on the matter have also stressed these considerations. The minority is further concerned with the process until the appointment of the new twelfth bishop and sees it as absolutely central that the Bishops' College itself should select pressure. I agree that there is a challenge in the fact that two selection processes – the choice of president and the appointment of bishop – are now being brought together in one, as the entire committee expresses it. The government has intended that as long as the 12th bishop is to be an official, and that the ecclesiastical bodies themselves have taken the view that the bishop should be, it is necessary that the ecclesiastical nomination and suspension process lead to a proposal for three names. It is not possible for an official to be appointed by a church election by anyone other than the King of the Council of State. Having said that, I agree with the Committee that the position of the Church – and that does not mean just the recommendation of the Bishops' Meeting – should be given priority in the appointment. In extending this, I would also like to highlight that the communication on several points conveys that the scheme to be set up will have a temporary character. As you know, the church agreement provides that the authority to appoint bishops is to be transferred from the church council to a church elected body. It will require a new review.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e306	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e309	The Central Party Ola Borten Moe says in the Address Paper today: ‘Over time it would be natural to move to several of the church’s central institutions to Trondheim. The Permanent Annual Church Meeting and the Secretariat of the Church Meeting, the various Secretariat functions of, among others, the Bishop’s Meeting and the Council of Churches – and not least the Information Service Fund. At all events, most of the functions currently located in the Church House in Oslo should be moved to Trondheim." The question then is: is this something about which the government stands together and works to get implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e319	What we have as a matter of fact today is the location of office premises and functions related to the twelfth bishop. The government has not intervened in any other debates. When some wish to consider over time whether other church organs should be moved to Trondheim, I would say that it must be up to the Church's own organs when we have carried out the church settlement. What's on my agenda and the government's agenda for the moment is to implement the church agreement that was widely agreed here in the Stortingen last year, and I see no reason why we should take hold of other parts at this time. If the Church over time wants to make other changes, it must be up to the Church's organs. The church meeting is the church's organs that determine where to go – it is today in Tønsberg. If you want to add it elsewhere, the Church itself must come back to it when it makes its choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e324	The Church has provided the basis for this matter that there is an improvement in the situation of pressure based on today's press arrangement and with today's president's tasks without major changes in it. The government says in the matter that they have done the same thing, they are also very concerned about what is now happening, and then progress is to be made in the future. Nevertheless, despite the ten to one of the bishops and more than two thirds of the Church meeting, the government lands on another choice of location, and then away from the Church's house. Does the State Council have any card in the sleeve that she has not included in the case that can justify this decision? Or is it simply that now it was the turn of the Center Party to win?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e331	What this matter is about, is first of all to put in place the twelfth bishop, to free up working time, so that the bishop can exercise the pressure functions assigned and will be assigned to the function. When it comes to where that function is to be exercised, I think it's possible to find good solutions for a lot of people. But I have, through the treatment of this matter, recorded a great public commitment -- county commission that has given its opinion on the matter, from Rogaland to Troms, a lot of individuals who thought it was natural to add the pressure function to Trondheim. I am convinced that the pressing function can be performed in a very good way from Trondheim. I think we're going to remember Trine Skei Grande's words, that Trondheim is a big city with functions that it's very good to be able to function from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e336	The councils referred to the considerable commitment that had been placed on it when they chose to ignore what the majority of church authorities had done in this matter. My first question is whether that would mean that the government would rather listen to a large minority in this room and move pressure to Oslo instead of Trondheim. My second question concerns the observation made by the majority and quoted in my speech that it is believed that it would be ‘unlucky’ to have only one candidate, ‘as it would restrict the government’s freedom to assess who is to be nominated and appointed’. Is it such that in matters of freedom of belief and in this matter one has been most concerned about preserving the government's freedom to assess who is to be nominated, and who is to be appointed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e343	After the church agreement that was entered into in this room, I have realized that Stortinget wanted this matter to be dealt with. It's the Stortinget today. The decision that is being made here today, of course, will ensure that the government is put to work. I have not seen either in the church agreement or later that someone has believed that government and big business should not have a separate responsibility for this matter. This applies both to the localization and to the way in which you select the twelfth bishop. We have chosen to follow what is perfectly normal processes, whereby several candidates are nominated for the appointment of officials. It's done in bishop's cases, it's done when we have prosters. We have chosen to do it this way in order to be able to have the same opportunity as you have when, for example. appoint bishops, in connection with the appointment of a president.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e350	State council Aasrud has taken on a very serious and important responsibility, and she herself has today clarified the basis for much of this matter, namely the church settlement, and she has repeatedly said that this is what this is, is a follow-up to the church settlement. The church agreement was concluded between all parties in this room. Today we see a case where two important elements show a clear division between the positions and the opposition parties. I think it is sad that we are now in a situation where the Council of State Aasrud is unable to follow the spirit of the church settlement and create an agreement between all parties on how this should be followed up. I hope that the Council of State will now confirm that this is the last time that one has a case that follows the church settlement where one does not attempt to establish an agreement between all the parties to the church settlement in the follow-up to what may be the most important compromise in the Church's modern history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e357	In the work on the Church Agreement, we are engaged in creating broad-based reconciliation with the opposition in the Stortinget. I want to confirm that we are going to try to contribute to this. But you can never in a case that is so demanding, and that has so many elements in it, guarantee that you will not disagree. I think this room will be well served that we have debates on church issues too in the future. There are many single elements we're going to deal with, several large-scale messages, several things that we're going to the Stortinget with, and I can't stand here today and promise that we're going to be able to reach agreement. But that we're going to seek agreement on the most important issues, I think it's important for this case in order to get a distinction where we get new legal rules that can carry over time, so that we don't have to do it again when there might be others who want to do other things in the Storting. So I'll try to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e362	In any case, the Council of State is in a position to upgrade Trondheim from being a district to a big city during the debate. They're probably happy with that in Trondheim, at least. My question is based on the Council of State's fundamental understanding of what church democracy is. As much time as she and the majority spend on what the minority means in all contexts, one gets the impression that there is a separate form of minority democracy in the Church to be elevated to something specific. So my question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State have a different principle view of democracy in the Church than the democracy exercised at the National Assembly of the Labour Party, in this House, or in the Government, for that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e369	In the church agreement, as I see it, you have not said that you should follow the Church's advice in all matters to be dealt with in this room. On the contrary, I believe that during this period the accumulation and government have a self-reliance to make assessments of the advice they receive from the Church's organs. I also think it is right to look and listen to what other members of the Norwegian Church think. The government has done that, and I also see that the bulk of the population is doing that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e375	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e378	It has now been two years since the historic agreement with all the major parties in the state church case was concluded. The agreement showed that we could jointly find broad solutions to an important issue. It is a matter of our traditions and our identity in Norway, which is about freedom of religion, minority rights and equivalency. As the Church itself has pointed out, a democratic reform is now taking place, the main aim of which is to facilitate the effective influence of the members of the Church also on issues of community and community – this in order to strengthen the Church of Norway as a good and inclusive people's church. As the Minister of the Church said at the Church Meeting last year: ‘We will strengthen the links between people and the Church and loosen something on the ties between the State and the Church.’ [[...]] The need to discuss issues related to religion and outlook has increased, also due to greater diversity, which enriches society but also creates challenges. This is precisely what I think has contributed to the fact that the relationship between state, society, individual, religion and outlook on life has become stronger on the policy agenda. There's something we have in common with a number of other countries. I would like to take this opportunity today to praise the representative Dagfinn Højbräten for his contribution to the fact that the Stortinget on 28 May discussed exactly the place of religion in society. The fact that the government is now going to set down a wide-ranging public body to go through the policy of belief and life's vision is a natural follow-up to the developments we are seeing. In line with the Norwegian Church's recommendation, the government has arranged for today's debate on the press function. This is in line with the church agreement and also a contribution to strengthening the Church's role as a church of the people. Strengthening the Bishops’ Meeting is important, not least for a demanding period of follow-up to the conciliation and challenges in a number of areas. Then it is not the function itself that has contributed to the debate we – with a certain level of noise – have had. It has been predominantly about the location and connection to the cathedral of Nidaro. The democratic and popular commitment to the localization of the new office that is being held in the Norwegian Church is, I believe, primarily very joyful. For the Church, the strong commitment we have seen signals that the country around is of considerable interest in the role and development of the Church. The Trondheim Council, the County rapporteur in the South-Trondelag and the rapporteur, have argued solidly and thoroughly for their recommendation that the new office held by the President should be located in Nidaros. But there has also been a great commitment to county councils and regional councils across, almost to say, the whole country. In most of these rounds, the bourgeois parties have supported localization in Trondheim. When the opposition parties in today's debate are intended to follow the majority of the Church meeting, it is clearly a point of view that is disputed by bourgeois elected representatives outside the country. The opposition parties have today used quite strong words, such as power demonstration, overrun by the Church and a lack of government. It would then be interesting to hear the characteristics and assessments of the representatives of the opposition parties today, for example. The Christian People's Party in Northern Ireland, the Right in Southern Trondelag and the North Trondelag and the Progress Party in More and Romesdal, which, like bourgeois politicians in large parts of the country, have supported the location of pressure to Trondheim. It is, of course, possible, for several reasons, to argue well for a solution whereby the new bishop's office would be added to Oslo, as the Bishop's meeting and the Church's meeting have done. However, an overall assessment has made it possible to recommend localisation in Trondheim. In particular, I would like to stress the significant inter-political involvement of elected bodies has contributed to getting this solution around the country. It's worth noting. It tells a lot about the commitment we have to the Church in Norway, and it promises well for the further work on the follow-up to the church settlement. For my own part, I will continue to insist that today's communications indicate that such a choice is fully sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e405	I think it's interesting to hear that government parties are trying to find rational reasons for what you're proposing today. It's very impressive that you've had a political horse trade in the government. You've decided – and then, later on, to try to find some reason why you've done this. This is probably a matter of restricting the freedom of religious communities, of restricting freedom of faith. It bears the mark – we have had several of these debates earlier in ours as well – very much on 17 May rhetoric on the part of the government, on freedom of religion, the freedom of religion, etc. When it comes to the specific issues, you're doing the exact opposite of what you're talking about. And it becomes a little special when both the Council of State, and Helga Pedersen finally here, say that you need to strengthen the links between people and the church, and weaken the ties between the state and the church. It is not so terribly difficult to see that you are actually doing the wrong thing in this case. In the church agreement, all parties agreed on the objective of church autonomy and democracy. Then comes this matter, where the location of the Bureau becomes a big topic. The Church has had a thorough and democratic process and reached a clear conclusion: Presses should be located in Oslo. It would be thought that it was a simple matter for the Council of State and the Minister of the Church to follow this up. I'm afraid it wasn't. The centre party had an idea that presidents would be located at Trondheim, and so the political circus was going on. The Workers' Party and the Council of State subsequently gave to the Centre Party. SV was initially crystal clear that this had to be chosen by the Church itself. To our country, Parliamentary leader Bård Vegar Solhjell said on 8 April this year: «For us, this is to the degrees a matter a religion must decide for itself. After the state/church settlement, the future of the church is now being prepared. It is therefore obvious that the government should follow the church's own advice, they must decide the location themselves." That is what the SV parliamentary leader said in April. Now we've come to June. Now it's got a completely different sound, now you're kind of placed with the other government parties, after a so-called 'total assessment'. And the tragic thing is that in this room, there's actually a majority to let the Church decide this on its own. Then the government is going to try to find some reasonable reason for this. And what you've found out is that it's on the basis of history, tradition and symbols that you're now going to add the president's office to Trondheim. Well, we've had the Evangelical Lutheran Church since 1537. Trondheim has never been the seat of this church. If you were to use this kind of justification for location, I would have had a strong argument to move the capital back to Bergen. That's where we have history and tradition to rule the country, at least if you go far enough back in time. We also have local standing ready – the Håkonshallen can be a great venue for the national assembly. So what do you want to symbolize by this? The only symbolism I can find is that it was in Trondheim Church that it was deprived of its independence and laid under the king's power, in 1537, when Olav Engelbrektsson was chased from the city. Maybe it's the way the government will symbolize what's happening today. Then one tries to find some reason in the Church's own handling of the matter. First, they say that the bishop of Nidaros is in favor of Trondheim, as the only bishop in the College of Bishops. That the Nidaros bishop is a local patriot, is understandable, but what about the vision of the ten other bishops? They're definitely not counting anything here. Secondly, reference is made to the minority in the Church meeting – and disregards the majority. There is a very special form of democratic understanding here, to which no parallels are to be found in modern times. So it's the minority that governs democracy. It is then time to propose that a similar principle be introduced here in the Storting, at least out of this period. It would have been interesting to try. I would say that this government totally lacks a church policy. It drives for weather and wind, without direction or vision. The church is governed by the method of invasion, not by a long-term plan of democracy and independence, as the church settlement provided. It has a church policy so full of paradoxes and inconsistency that one must at least carry out the purest rhetorical C moments in order to try to cover up what this is actually about, namely political horse trafficking in the government itself. One thing is that this is poor management of the Church by the government, but it is also disrespectful to the Church, disrespectful to the members of the Church, the Church meeting and the Bishops' College. It is also disrespectful of the church settlement made here in this big deal. That's why this is a sad day for the Church, it's a sad day for church democracy and self-government and a great retreat in the positive processes that have been started from this room before. The joy is that we have a united bourgeois opposition to government policy in this Chamber. Then we can only hope that after 2013 we will have a different majority, so that church politics can get on a completely different track than we now experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e432	The President is not quite sure whether ‘political horse trade’ and ‘political circus’ are concepts that promote respect for the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e435	The Norwegian Church of State is developing – a positive development, I would say – in line with the society it is a living part of. In the previous ageing period, work started on a change in the state church form as we know it today. Today’s decision is not dealt with in the church agreement, but is an example of a church that renews itself in small and large size. The Bishop's meeting will have his own press function at the request of the Church. Like all other areas of society, the Church also needs stronger leadership. That's what this is all about. Today, the management function goes round between the serving bishops. The task that is pressed is labour-intensive. The one who is working pressure has had to combine the management function with the work of the bishop in his own diocese. Today's society requires more of a leader than before. Then today's system becomes very demanding. Dealing with a great diocese at the same time as filling the function as a leading bishop has become too extensive. Therefore, today's decision is a decision to strengthen the Church. In addition to the performance of the tasks under pressure today, strengthening the press function will involve both real and symbolic changes in the role. But there is reason to stress that the purpose of this round is not to radically change the pressure role. The change must take place gradually and within the framework of popular democracy and church democracy. The selection of presidents may be made differently. The arrangement we are adopting today ensures that the Church has significant influence over the current candidates. At the same time, we guarantee the government the freedom to appoint the chief bishop. This balance between church democracy and popular democracy is important. What rules should apply in the long term must be taken into account in the further process of the appointment of bishops in the future state church. There is no need to hide that the Committee has experienced significantly more attention in relation to the location of the supervisory area than to the nature of the role and function to be stressed. That's not so nice. Localization creates commitment in our long-term country. The Church's own bodies have had their processes through the Bishop's Meeting and the Church Meeting. Local policy actors have been involved. In Trøndelag, the commitment has been great. But even outside the troupes, many have had strong opinions. My impression is that many have made an opinion about the matter, and that many churchgoers around the whole of Norway believe Trondheim is a natural place for pressure. The fact that we have a church building and a church tradition other than the usual location in Trondheim is far ahead of the North's consciousness. Then we should not underestimate that there are arguments that pressure should have its supervisory area in Oslo as well. Like most other political issues, there are arguments for and against. When the opposition talks about democracy in the Church, they talk about a democracy reform that has worked for a very short time, and a church election that has 10 pst. digestion. Then I would like to remind the assembly that a democracy in our understanding is called a representative democracy. We are not in the goal of democratic reform in the Church. It's the Church aware of -- they're in a process, it's in recovery, but we have to have it with us. The Labour Party and the other government parties have heard reports from state politicians from all parties represented on the Stortinget, and there is massive support for Trondheim. I would like to make a few comments also on terms that have been used here from the pulpit so far in the debate. Bente Thorsen of the Progress Party thought this decision was to kick someone lying down. I mean the Church of Norway – the Church of Norway – is not lying down. The Church of Norway is in a very good constitution. There's a lot of positive happening there. I am absolutely sure that the Church will also be able to deal with the situation we now have, namely that the State – Stortinget – decides that pressure should be held in Trondheim, that there has been a majority against this, and a minority for localisation in Trondheim. In addition, the Christian People's Party representative, Dagrun Eriksen, spoke of abuse of power. I think it's a strong term. It's still a state church. It is such that it is the King of the Council of State and the Grand Council who has power over the Church of State, and then to talk about abuse of power in a church context in that way I think is a strong use of words. Finally, I would like to say that I am confident that with today's decision we will ensure the future bishop who is to fill the pressure function, good framework conditions to perform his role in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e458	It is gratifying that a unanimous enlargement today goes in to establish a separate office for a leading bishop. Both the Church and political authorities believe that there is a need for a bishop who can provide the full-time press function. The press function has increased significantly in recent years. It has been felt as more and more demanding for those who have had the function, both to be bishop of a geographical diocese and to take care of the job under pressure. The leading bishop shall represent the Church in the country and abroad, direct the College of Bishops, discharge the ecumenical and international commitment of the Church, mark the Church in society, work together and target the contents of the Church. The new leader must be able to be a visible external spokesperson. There has been an incredibly strong commitment to the issue of locating presses. I have great respect for the decision of the church platter. However, localisation cannot be considered a theological question — it is a highly secular question. In addition, it is part of the picture that accumulation and government are still part of the Church's governance with power and authority to make decisions. The Church has asked the politicians to perform a new post. They must then also accept that politicians are making different assessments and landings in a different position than they are. I am very pleased that today the majority will join Trondheim as the seat of the Church's new presidents – a natural choice for a city built around the thousand-year-old cathedral, which in people's consciousness is the country's most important church. Nidarosis becomes the historical and powerful framework for the operation of the new bishop. For most of the Nordics, it is the symbol of the Norwegian Church. It has been the site of major events of national political importance. This is where pilgrims have been walking for a thousand years. There's a lot of ecumenical work going on here, and here the threshold is low and the ceiling is high for everyone. Through the County Plan for Trøndelag, the Trøndelagsrat has worked over several years to strengthen Trondheim and Trøndelag as a national church centre of gravity. It is not least based on previous decisions in this room to strengthen Trondheim as a church center. One of the results is an enhanced pilgrimage movement through the restoration and marking of the pilgrimage trail to Nidaros and the establishment of Nidaros Piligrimsgård in 2008. Last week it became clear that the Council of Europe has allocated the pilgrimage through Denmark, Sweden and Norway up to the status of Nidaro as a European cultural route. Nidaros is now becoming pilgrims in line with Santiago de Compostela. St. Olav is ecumenical, and Nidarosdom can now become an important pilgrimage of an international ecumenical nature. Trondheim and Trøndelag have over time been a meeting place and an arena for dialogue across national borders and religions. We also experience in Trøndelag a broad popular engagement around the pilgrim trail, the ecumenical work, Stiklestad, the Olav Festival – the latter is the country's leading church festival with no-point status. Someone wants us to press Trondheim to establish an archbishoplike symbol figure. It's never been the thought. The last Archbishop of Norway had to flee from Nidaros during the Reformation in 1537. The few people want a pompous procession figure, you want a clear leader well planted in the church. And if you choose an area where the people's church is based, Trondheim and Trøndelag are a very good choice. The exposure to Trondheim and Nidaros has been large. It has been driven by our local politicians in both the trombones, with the support of an almost total trombone, with the exception of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Nine counties of different political colours around the country have supported Nidaros. So it's not just a local policy case in Trøndelag. In addition, Trondheim has also received support for leadership in VG and in a number of our largest regional newspapers. The strong commitment of the Bishops' War has created shows that many more than those who sit in the Church Meeting and the Church Council are concerned with what is happening in the Church. I think the Church should be happy about that. Trondheim already has the facilities in place to house pressure, and we are now delighted to receive the new bishop.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e488	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e491	It is very gratifying that this matter is being dealt with in Stortinget today. In the last big period, there were many discussions about the future of the Church – a discussion that ended with a church settlement, where the development of a new popular church and the development of church democracy were central. Furthermore, we discussed the need to strengthen the pressure function in the previous period. The background was, as we've heard, that this function was very laborious. A total increase also supported the appointment of a twelfth bishop, but would have the matter back to the Stortinget for final decision in terms of content and geographical location. It was natural to see the strengthening of the press function as essential in view of the work the Church is now facing in the development of the new people's church and church democracy. For me, the debate that has followed in the wake of the geographical position of the twelfth bishop has been joyful – happy in the sense that the members of the Church have actually engaged and have had an opinion on the question. The exposure must mean that several of the members of the Church have a view of what they see as important when the new church and the new church democracy are to be developed in line with the church settlement. Trondheim is too much of a church capital. The strong historical traditions associated with Stiklestad, Nidarosdomen, Erkebispegården and Steinvikholm provide a good basis for the development of the church. Olsokuka at Stiklestad, The Olav Festival Days in Trondheim and the opera at Steinvikholm are big folk parties where the church has its place. Stiklestad and Nidaros have close cooperation between themselves, and the historical perspective is used to draw threads to today's and future societies. The debates take place across churches and religious communities, and inclusion and integration are key concepts. This, I believe, is a strength when the new church and the church democracy are to be built. I think it's a wise choice to place the twelfth bishop in Trondheim with the oversight area associated with Nidarosdom. Nidaro's diocese and Trondheim's municipality have jointly laid a good foundation for the development of the church and the church democracy from there. I look forward to the new bishop being appointed, and I am pleased as a member of the church that very many members have been heard on this matter, and that the Stortinge still sees itself as a legitimate part of the church democracy and the decisions that must be taken for the people's church. So to me, the term "church itself" means all of us who are members, not just those who are employees or are leaders of the Norwegian Church, although there are good women and men. I have noticed that civil politicians in Trøndelag and throughout the country otherwise share the views of the government and the majority of the population on the location of the press function in Trondheim. That's why it's strange to hear some of the statements from the opposition here today. I think it's the opposition that's indifferent to the Church itself, which is all of us who are members of the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e508	Today's historic decision is a consequence of our church history, and the debate on president shows that many have a ownership of our church. Some people have tried, even today, to label the press as a district policy, that it is about having some extra jobs in Norway's largest city, Oslo, or in Norway's third largest city, Trondheim. Those who have based that line have not understood the power of the matter, they have not understood the power of history, and that Nidarus has been the capital of the Church for a thousand years, in generations, where people, church and land have been bound together through the national sanctuary, from Olav the holy to recent times with the enthronement of King Haakon, the signing of King Olav and now the last signing of King Harald and Queen Sonja. It is the force that has emerged in the discussion of pressures. The press discussion is about the Church's place in Norwegian society, not in the practical, but in the history that has defined the Norwegian Church, in the history that has bound our country together and defined us to what we are. The King of the Council of State is the Church's highest body. The centre party is pleased that the Church's highest body has lifted itself above the practical, over the daily dont, and has seen the power that the Church still has in people's lives, and what a great commitment it is around the Norwegian Church around the whole country. We are pleased that we have chosen the place that pilgrims are applying for, namely Nidaros, that the Church has had its headquarters in Nidaros, which has been the Church's natural capital for generations. Then I find it strange to follow the debate here today. There are so many strong words about power abuse, outrage, that the Church is lying down, and that the Church is weak. But if you travel around Norway and see church life, it's for example. more people in Hedmark who go to worship than go to football matches and cinema performances in one year. The Church is very much alive. The vast majority of the Norwegian people are baptizing their children, participating in confirmation and using the Church on their most important days in life. That's what makes the commitment so big in this case. Many feel ownership. The broad layer feels ownership, and so many feel that the management in the Church does not see and reflect what is the broad layer around in all the various congregations in large and small places throughout the country. The government has seen it, the Church's highest body has seen it. Nidaros has been the seat of the Church for a thousand years. Now we're going to make a historic decision that strengthens Nidaros' position, and that's what the Center Party is pleased about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e519	On 10 April 2008, all parties at Stortinget presented a joint agreement on the relationship between state and church. This was a historic event. Through the agreement, the Stortinget took seriously that the Norwegian Church is primarily a religious community. The current Minister of the Church Trond Giske stressed in a press release that the agreement was about freedom of religion: ‘This is about our traditions and identity, while at the same time it is about freedom of religion, minority rights and equivalency.’ The issue we are dealing with today concerns one of the most important points of the agreement. Point 1 says the following: ‘The Contracting Parties agree to initiate a process in which the joint objective of the parties is to transfer the appointment of bishops and prosthetics from the Church Council of State to church bodies such as the Church Meeting or the Council of Bishops.’ Nevertheless, the government chooses to go completely the opposite way. Thus, in the conciliation, there is a process in which freedom of faith is taken seriously, and the Church is given more autonomy. In the proposition we are discussing today, the majority will finally vote to restrict Church autonomy. The church is deprived of the arrangement it has had by the fact that it itself appoints pressure. It's very serious. I really don't understand why the government in the first turn so that those degrees can choose to go across the intention of this reconciliation. Then you can ask, are they allowed to do that? - Yeah. But is that wise? - Far, far from it. In the process we're in, where the ties are going to be loosed between state and church, we depend on this to be done in a good dialogue with the Church itself. This case is not a good contribution to this dialogue. There's a reason to ask, what is the signal that the government really wants to send to the Church with this? At least they send a powerful signal where they say, "Yes, then, we appreciate the commitment, but we're the ones who decide." It's the state that has the power, as I think the representative Marianne Aasen so clearly expressed in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e540	The representative Svein Glüsth of the Workers' Party stressed that the matter had been thoroughly dealt with in the Church. But despite this, the Workers' Party has thus overrun the Church and proposed a solution the Church has not asked for. Glüsth justifies the overrun by the government and the majority of the Church that the red-greens will not adjourn as politicians. Let me underline: the minority has not abdied. The minority acts consistently and in line with the voice of church democracy and the pact with the spirit of the church settlement. On the other hand, the government in this matter has suspended normal democratic rules and set aside a clear church number. The reasons for the government’s decision are clearly marked by the fact that this has become a location case, and not a matter in which there is pressure on the function and how it can best be carried out, which is the main thing. The representative Aksel Hagen from SV asks that the temperature of the debate should not be so high. But it is in the name of truth the government itself that has driven up the temperature by ignoring the Church's position. In this case, SV has also marked a different primary view across the government, which could give a different majority when voting on this matter this afternoon. But SV is here, as in other matters, effectively pushed into the fold and today is voting against his own conviction. With the Church's eyes, the morals of the matter are doubtful. A broad process in the Church and a serious effort to strengthen democracy have proved to be null. It is very understandable that the reactions of the Church have been strong at the fact that the Church is not being heard. Governments are concerned with church affairs. There's hardly any doubt about the government's and the government's authority. However, the question is whether this authority in this case is managed in line with the intention of the church settlement. That's what the minority thinks it's not. What may surprise you most in the matter is the Workers' Party's very trivial approach. For the Church, this is an important matter – how the press function should be better able to support church work towards the separation of church state. For the government, this has become a localization case where you first point to Trondheim, and then build up an argument based on different assumptions than the Church. There's every reason to notice. In order to draw a parallel during these examination periods, candidates who do not respond to the examination task are deleted. The government has not responded to the task. Therefore, it must also bear with it that the result in wide circles is judged to be irony. Finally, it is actually possible to believe that Trondheim should be the place, but at the same time accept that the Church has a different view, and let the consideration of church democracy go ahead and into the pact with the church agreement that was adopted a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e560	The representative Bente Thorsen used strong words, such as “arrogance”, “overrun” and “politicist contempt”. Had the representative Thorsen gone a little further, it might have been tempting to draw a parallel to the Bible quotation that it is better to bow in a corner of the roof than in a house with a three - tea woman. I'm not going to draw that parallel. This has so far been a strange debate from the opposition's side. The author of the case, Svein Harberg, criticises the government for arguing from history and from a symbol. I agree with the representative Harberg that she does. It's important and right to do it; it should just be missing! After all, church is the foundation of history and symbolism. It is about the physical symbols, such as the crucifix, the strongest symbol we have today, and it is about symbolic actions, such as. Nightworld. When it comes to history, historical and religious events are so important and so fundamental that they cannot be ignored. I record that the opposition is most occupied with the formal procedure in this case – who is to deal with the matter, etc. Let us take the debate on their half: the formal procedure. Point 1: It will be a historical violation of the role of the Storing, with the tradition of the Storing, if we are to throw the cards into questions that are of a principle when it comes to the organisation and administration of the People's Church. People's Church is so congregated and so rooted as a movement that one can say that it is one of the most important institutions in the country today. She is comprehensive with regard to perspective, central struts and districts. She's converging across social dividing lines. She's congregated across skin color. It is even diverse across sexual orientation, bearing in mind the young/old perspective and taking into account the gender perspective. It's this perspective that makes me say that it's abdicating if the Storting isn't going to have any sense of important issues like the leadership function of just the collective institution that the popular church is. It's so definitely not about a restriction of the freedom of faith, as the representative of Åland claimed. I want to remind you that we have a local democracy with extensive local self-government, but we don't stop saying anything about the municipalities for that reason. We're going to label the funds more than ever. We have had an administrative reform with an additional form for the county municipalities. Yet, of course, we have strong leadership in relation to their work. In fact, it is not the case that Kirkja has been transferred to take a decision in this case. That's what she gets in 2013. That's why there's a case for treatment here today. Then we can't shade and we don't know anything about the content of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e575	It was the posts of the Council of State here in the Chamber a little while ago that made me seize the word. The council said that the government's proposal in this matter was a good follow-up to the church settlement. For my part, I was actively involved in the design of the agreement, and I must say that the husband of a record bomb from a councillor is long since I have heard in this room. This is a last spasm draw from a state church administration that the whole Storting agrees to wind up. That's how we can characterize the decision taken here today. Journalist Dag Kullerud had a comment in the evening post for a while back. There he came with a thorough analysis of the government's handling of the matter we are debating today. I quote him: ‘When a country’s government spends time and effort on the question of where a bishop is going to live, it immediately gives a picture of the government’s ability to prioritize matters. More importantly, however, it reveals a lax absence of principled religious thinking. In most countries in the world, the government’s decision in the press case would be seen as an offence.’ The overrun by the Government of the Church in terms of the choice and location of pressures is problematic, measured against the UN Declaration of Human Rights Article 18, which establishes that religious communities should have freedom of internal life, function and organisation. Furthermore, it also conflicts with the spirit and thought behind the whole church settlement in Stortinget, which was just saying that this kind of use of power from a government and from a big deal it was going to end. The speakers – and previous speakers were an example of this – who have claimed that this is a full right to do under the church system today, of course, are right to do so. Otherwise we would not have been able to deal with the matter. But the question of whether it is still right and wise is something quite different. On the question of whether it is contrary to or in line with the church agreement, I believe the answer is quite obvious. It is not in accordance with a settlement that will eliminate the actual possibility of doing so. The Norwegian Church is a religious community. Part of the agreement was to get a democratization process in the Church. This has been followed up by the Church, among others. through the church elections last autumn. But then, in the first case after the conciliation, the state chooses to tread into the territory of the Church and override the decision in the democratically elected body of the Church. The Labour Party parliamentary leader referred to the debate we had on religious policy here in the United Kingdom two weeks ago. It was a very good debate, I agree with Helga Pedersen in that. But if the government believes that the decisions they are making today in the Norwegian Church are good examples of how a principle religion policy should be pursued, I am concerned about the follow-up. Among other things, the same parliamentary leader has expressed himself in the matter as if the Church were any state body. It can't be like that in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e596	Let me start by thanking the government for what I think is a good piece of work and a good result. If you follow the debate here today, and also the one who has gone ahead of what is happening in this Chamber, it is a great deal of a debate about who will decide. My more solar attitude is that as long as we have a state church system, our democratic, elected body, government and greatness are a legitimate part of that decision-making process. This is nothing new. Rather, it has been the rule since 1536 and must be said to be a deeply incorporated tradition in Norwegian democracy. I also want to add that, at my discretion, this is a great historical success. The vast majority of us are still members of the Church of State, and by far most of us are busy with the Church's position and future. So the rules of the game can change. There's actually a lot of evidence that it's going to happen. But that hasn't happened yet, and let me add that there has been no popular demand. It's a process that's initiated on another team. There are very strong words from the opposition today: abuse of power, district policy, lack of respect and trust. No, on the contrary! Firstly, as long as we have this system, we are a legitimate part of the decision-making process. Secondly, this is also a decision taken on the basis of love and respect for the people’s Church – not all the other things the opposition has used as designations. It's least of all about district policy, but it's about what we think is best for the Church, and what we think is best for Norway. For my own part, I am very sincere that there are often two aspects of the same matter. In today's Address Paper, I call for more functions to be provided to Trondheim. My hope and my faith is that that reception pressure and the Church will get in Trondheim, will give mer taste. It is also my hope and my belief that the Church itself is taking greater advantage of the power and tradition that Trondheim and Trondelag represent in Christian context. Therefore, in my opinion, it is not impossible to imagine that additional functions are being moved to Trondheim over time. It would, in my opinion, be positive. When I follow the debate, I get the impression that many people believe that the Norwegian Church is a religious community in line with everyone else. I don't share that view. Then centuries of history, community and belonging are overlooked, and it is underlined that in a possible new order, too, the Norwegian Church will stand in a special position in our law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e613	With reference to the last article, the representative Borten Moe said that this is about what we think is best for the Norwegian Church, meaning that it does not understand anything by itself. With that in mind, it is strange that the Central Party was at all involved in the church conciliation, because the church conciliation says the opposite, that the Church is able to make these decisions itself. It's just that the majority in this hall haven't quite understood it. Everyone here agrees that it is important to strengthen the press function, but right from the start of this discussion, the premise for the Church, which put this on track, was that it had to be co-located with the other church administration, because if one did not, a person would maintain what is the main challenge of today's press arrangement, namely that one has to travel to Oslo several times a week to be able to work out the administrative tasks assigned to a press function. This isn't a symbol function, this isn't a gallon figure to sit in Trondheim and look outside. This is a man or a woman who is given administrative responsibility for the Norwegian Church, on behalf of and together with the other bishops. There are demanding tasks – not symbolism. I was one of those who had the joy of participating in the state-church negotiations, and spent many hours at night worrying about the follow-up. That's why I get a little provoked when the Council of State of the Great Government says that this is in line with the church settlement – that it's in line with the spirit of the church settlement – and that it was a big and broad settlement that everyone agreed on, but in the follow-up to this, you haven't even regretted initiating conversations with the other parties, which are not part of the government. I really think that in itself is a far too bad follow-up to a church settlement. Here we could have sat down and found good solutions, just as we did in the church settlement, because this is not about a localization debate. This is not about Oslo versus Trondheim. This is about whether we should take the church settlement seriously, whether we should acknowledge that the Church is able to make decisions on its own behalf. And then the Storting splits into two. On this very fundamental question, which is the whole starting point for the state-church settlement, this hall divides into two. It's very bad. I think it is worrying when central politicians in the Workers' Party – we heard the parliamentary leader in the Workers' Party – stand on the platform and promote this as if it were an ordinary localisation issue. Then it has not been understood what this debate is about. There are several representatives from the government parties who have given speeches that are not really about the question, namely: Who is going to decide in the Norwegian Church? Yes, the Storting and the Government can do it formally, but it destroys the foundation of the future development of democracy, which we have all agreed on in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e624	This is a matter that has created a great deal of commitment. It's not surprising that this is a matter that creates great commitment within the Church, but what's very pleasing is that this has created such a great commitment very wide, and among many members of the Norwegian Church. For the Central Party, it has been important to make choices based on input from the Church's elected bodies, but not least to listen to voices that are not directly represented in the Church Meeting. This is part of the broad church that we have in Norway today. Many in this debate today are trying to create a contradiction between the desire to have a strengthened democracy in the Church and at the same time have a state church. Yes, many people make it almost like we don't have a state church in Norway today, and many refer to the Church Agreement in Stortinget. Then it's good to remember that there is a prerequisite for the development of democracy in the Church, and this is closely related to the development of our Church of State. Historically, Trondheim is the natural church capital of the country, and the Center Party has programmed that we want this. The national sanctuary itself is located in Trondheim, with Nidarosdomen, and many would think that the heart of the Norwegian Church is in this city. A clear anchoring of the office in the cathedral church of Nidaro and the Archdiocese of Erke will make the millennial history of the Church visible in the country and strengthen Trondheim as a national church centre. For the Central Party, this is about the Church's history, and how we want to develop the Church into the future. We have so certainly not been alone in believing that Trondheim is the natural church capital, something more have been involved in the debate. There are a lot of people who support this. The centre party is accused of this being about district policy. For us, this is not about district policy. If anyone has mentioned district policy here in the Chamber, it's the opposition. For the Central Party, this is about laying the groundwork for developing the Church as a strong social actor, firmly anchored in its millennial history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e639	Sometimes the debate has taken a turn that I expected, that someone would try to find arguments in their good review of Trondheim. So that's not what this is all about. I have rarely heard a debate with such bad arguments on the part of the majority as I have heard here. I have to comment on some of the things that have been said in the hall. Firstly, I think it was honest and good that SV flagged its primary position. Then I just need to be corrected when the representative from SV says that I had used the words «frightening» and «minority» about locating. It's completely wrong, it was the process of selecting presses. So to the Central Party's Anne Tingelstad Wøien, who could not understand that we thought it was to override the Church, because here a new bishop was to be appointed. No, I won't. All those to be nominated are already elected bishop. The King of the Council of State has said that these are representative and can be bishop. Pressures are to be chosen – that is, trusted among the bishops – only to be moved to a new area of oversight. Then you have to understand that it becomes unnatural to try it out. The council spent a long time on what was agreed, and was then saved by the gong when it came to the difficult things. I'm sure that was good. She said that the most important thing now is that we get the twelfth bishop in place. But it's really important who will be, and that this is a person that the Church itself feels can represent them that way you should. The council also said in an answer to questions here that they had invited to cooperate. Yes, as I have experienced it as a church-political spokesman for the Right, I have read in the newspapers and joined the media in a difficult debate, the government parties landed, and then the matter came with its final conclusions. Yes, thank you for your cooperation, I say. Then there's someone who points out that there's so much commitment, and that makes one have to choose Trondheim. The church meeting had a two-thirds majority for a different location. There is also a great commitment, which is justified in the treatment around all the places that it is to be treated in the Church. I have a recommendation for more here, with Ola Borten Moe at the head: become active participants in the Church and in the Church's democracy. There's a good place to influence this forward. This issue concerns strengthening and framework conditions for pressure, not strengthening the history of the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e656	When Torkil Åmland and Elisabeth Aspaker in their posts make a big point of revealing the SV's primary position, it becomes like with great pathos to blow an open door, all the time I myself presented it in my opening post. What I went on to say was that we should be a little muffled in our language, all the time we're all divided in this matter of location. There I was probably a little too naive. The temperature in the hall has really risen considerably. It reminds me a little bit of the spring quota discussion we had earlier this week. Then the government experienced a hard drive from the Right and the Advance Party, and for the Right representatives there was also a hard drive towards the minority in their own party, among other things. at the national meeting, including its own party management. At that time – a few days ago – I wondered that it was possible to have such a tough and hard language when one knows that, among other things, it was. is its own an argument against. For a beginner, this is kind of funny. It's almost impressive – I have to say – that a power to be so indignant about a position that one knows that many partymates around the country have. So I wonder, if all the partymates of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left now come with us, what do they really think when they include them? they are informed that they are undermining the Church Agreement with their commitment and that they are also rarely using bad arguments, in order to try to quote the President again. I would like to fly on the wall when you meet again!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e667	I think that once again is reason to remember what this matter is really about. So it's about creating a twelfth bishop in the Norwegian Church to have important functions that are now difficult to combine with the job of ordinary bishop. That is what this matter is about, and when I have said that I believe that this matter is in line with the church agreement, that is precisely why. The fact that we are now giving the Bishop's meeting a relief, as we have a 12th bishop in place, I believe that in fact is in line with the agreement that we have concluded. Then I have to say that I am also surprised at the use of language here. When it's said from the pulpit in Stortinget that we're not going to "spark someone lying down", it's not the Norwegian church I meet when I'm out. I meet a vital church, where there's a lot of activity, people who have a lot of commitment, and I think we'll remember that even when we talk about the Church in the future. I also want to comment that we now want choices to be presented to the government when choosing the twelfth bishop. It is presented that if the government does not select the candidate pointed out by the Bishops' Meeting, it will almost be given a person who cannot be accepted by the bishops. So the bishops are essentially going to nominate three people. I think you nominate three people you trust. The debate has been exciting. I am absolutely sure that, through the decisions to be made in the Stortinget today, we will help to strengthen the Norwegian Church as a social actor, and that they will make important contributions to the work to be done in the future. So I would like to remind you that we are in the middle of a democracy process, a process of democracy to be completed during 2011. After that, the Stortinge will be presented with the cases which will lead to the necessary decisions for more authority to be transferred to the ecclesiastical organs. Until then, I believe that the magnificence and government have a perfectly legitimate right to make the settings and choices they think are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e678	I was tempted to take the floor when I heard the representative Skei Grande's partly fairly historyless and partly drooling posts. Skei Grande compared the millennial history of the Norwegian Church to whether we should interfere with whether mosques should be located in Greenland or elsewhere. We have a state church, sail about Skei Grande and others from the opposition don't want it. I am saddened, on behalf of Kirka, by these statements, and worried about the future of the people's church. Then there's been a lot of talk about overruns of church democracy. The representative of the Aasen refers to a choice of 10 pst. Yes, it was at the fall's church elections. But the Church meeting that has been under this arrangement is indirectly elected on 4 p.m., and they made their recommendations. Therefore, it is not so strange that one should actually take into account more than the majority of the Church Meeting. The new twelfth bishop shall design a new role. When a new bishop is appointed, it's not a common secretary-general's appointment. If it's just been talking about someone who's going to have more time to work in an office in Oslo, it's going to be something else. But that's not what this is about. A press with more time and better space will become the visible voice on behalf of the Church, whether we want it or not. I think it's good for Kirka to get a clearer voice. So to the representative of the Højbräten, who believes that this is the last seizure before the state church is dissolved. I'm proud to be in the state church. I believe that the Church of State has taken care of and given room to many of us who feel as though representatives from the Church in newspaper posts have called ‘Christmas Christians’. I'm glad that the broad people's church gives room for Christmas Christians. I am concerned about some posts here today and I wonder very much if there will be room for the Christmas evening Christians in the Norwegian Church in the future. Finally, I have been a little tempted to remember that there was actually no majority to separate state and church in the councils, for which the Church meeting went in when they decided. So to the representative Harberg, yes, a new bishop is to be appointed. They're eleven today, and if you're going to appoint a twelfth bishop, that means we're going to appoint a new bishop – but we're also being pushed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e693	The next speaker is Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e696	President! There's someone talking under here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e702	Then we're going to ask someone to take care of it. There's a lot of noise. Hold on a second, Lien. Is it possible for the representatives to hear what is said from the pulpit? - It's nodding. Then the debate continues, and then someone will look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e705	There are up to a number of people who have stressed that we have a state church in Norway. This is to the extent a proper analysis. But the broad consensus that we should no longer have a state church, but, on the other hand, separate church and state, does not come out very well. I would like to say that I think Trondheim stands on the hill as the country's church capital, completely independent of state interference. I have no faith that if we had added the new bishop's office to Oslo, then suddenly the new pilgrim's case in Norway would have become Oslo's cathedral. There's nothing wrong with the Oslo cathedral, but I think that Nidarosdom is rocking in Western European tradition, completely regardless of whether the state is taking the lead in the administration of the Church. But it's good we get a pressure. There have been several people involved, and I agree with the Council of State. This, of course, is an unfortunate start to the work of the new president. So there's been a lot of talk about Trondheim and Oslo. I must say that I fear now that the president will be as much to find at the Værnes and at the Gardermoen, as in Trondheim or Oslo. That's something that's of course going to make some of the work of the new president difficult. Then there's been talk of politicians and people who get engaged. That's good, of course, but many of these politicians are politicians that I've never heard talk about the Church's woe and well before, but now all of a sudden the commitment is huge. Then I must be allowed to hope that that commitment to the Church will continue in the future as well. But I don't understand why the county committee in Rogaland municipality or for that part the leader in Bergen's Official Journal should be more focused on this matter than the Church's own democracy. And then some people are trying to claim that this strengthens church democracy. But if that's how we're supposed to strengthen church democracy only when the majority in the Church agrees with the red-green majority, then I don't know if I call it strengthening democracy. When every day comes – when these big signal issues are no longer up – I think it will be difficult to mobilise church democracy, knowing that church democracy is, however, overrun by the red-green mass of population when it suits you best. Then there have been many who have talked about the millennial history of the Church. In 1537, Olav Engelbrektsson was thrown out of the country. He was the last archbishop, or president, in the country. He lost the fight against the state power. He lost the fight for the church and state to be separated, and he sailed out of Trondheimsfjord. When the next president comes back to Trondheim after nearly 500 years, it is also after the Church has lost the fight against the state power. That is the reality of the matter. I think we should deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e724	You can wonder if it's the church democracy that starts to murmur under our chairs. It hadn't surprised me. The reason why the Council of State must constantly remind us of what this matter is really about is that the government is falling, because one has given the Church something that the Church has not asked for. Arguments have been used to present this decision, as the Workers' Party did at its group meeting, such as that it is a good tradition the Workers' Party has to move state agencies out into the country, as Helga Pedersen said it here in the hiking hall. They've talked about this in the spirit of the church settlement or not. I, who along with Anders Anundsen was two of the negotiators who are left in this room now, know that the reason why that decision has not yet come into force is that we have a constitutional procedure, which is wise, and which makes us take things in the right order. With regard to the matter being brought back to Stortinget, it was not because Stortinget was supposed to make sure in case the Church did something that we did not think was okay. The reason we asked for this matter to be brought to the Grand Council was that unfortunately we did not have such great confidence that the government would listen to the church organs, that they would take it as an election campaign play under the then Church Minister Trond Giske and place pressure somewhere and then go out and try to join church organs. That's why we have this case today, because we were going to have a process in the church organs where they were to express themselves on how you want this to be done, and we have it now. Nidaros is not dependent on pressure. Nidaros will stand strongly both in our history, in the pilgrimage tradition and as part of the church wedding arrangement around our royals. You'll be able to stand on your own regardless of this. Then I want to say that someone has responded that we use strong words and get amazed at it. It shows that you have not understood the content of this case. Obviously, on the one hand you have the right to do this, but on the other hand you say that you should listen to democracy, to nine states that have spoken out on this matter. I have seen the letter that was sent from the county rapporteur from the South-Trundelag Arbeiderparti. They said, "Do you think that Oslo has got a little bit, shouldn't we now stand together a little? Yes, it was the nine states that spoke out, said. That's what they said yes. This is not what the matter is about. I'm glad that the Church has the capacity to forgive, as a basic attitude in its way of dealing with matters, and I hope that one will once again come to terms with the spirit of the church settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e737	The church also has the ability to thank, so it's good, both forgiveness and thanks are good. In the debate it was held approximately. 30 posts, so that's really nice. Then I wonder if we should raise our eyes a little bit, because what delights me as one who is happy in the Norwegian Church, and who is also here as a representative of a party that is happy in the Norwegian Church, is that there is such a great and broad commitment to that kind of thing. Now, as big-time politicians in the handling of our case documents, we have sat down and disagreed on positions in the location of press. But now it becomes a majority for pressure to be in Nidaros. So now I hope we can all look up, because it is a huge declaration of trust to the Norwegian Church that it is held approx. 30 contributions to this debate. It shows how strongly the Church stands, and how many feel ownership of it. It creates some feelings for many people to feel just a ownership of it. So my hope is, and I think it's also going to be like this, that once this decision is made, all parties, even if they disagreed until the decision was made, will stand behind it and strengthen the new function. It could be an important function. It would be an important function whether it was located in Oslo or Nidaros. Now it's Nidaros, and I think it was the best choice. Then I just have to make a little comment -- and I understand that it's said when you're engaged -- to Harberg about commitment to the Church: I mean the most important thing about commitment to the Church is not how many meetings you go to or how many services you're at, but that you've chosen to baptize. Then you're equally meaningful no matter how active you are. It's the baptism that's the entrance, and fortunately, there are also many who want to baptize their children still.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e750	It's easy to agree with the last speaker in his conclusion. But I do not agree that this is a huge declaration of trust to the Church. The centre party is here again to destroy democracy in the Norwegian Church. You use church democracy as a party speaker, but when it comes to the play, you want this hall and this government to finally make the decision. The size turns this case into a localization issue. It's not, and it can't be. We have seen that representatives from the Central Party, such as Navarsete and Borten Moe, have made this a matter of Trondheim and not of a church question so clearly in the debate, both inside and outside this Chamber. This is and will be a question of the principles of the Norwegian Church. Is it the Church itself that has to decide on church affairs, or is it the politicians who are going to make the decisions? I have a terrible difficulty in understanding how a group meeting in the Workers' Party should ultimately be decisive for whether the Church should choose one or the other location for its new pressure. It's worth going back to see why you wanted a press – a twelfth bishop, and a permanent press function in the Church. Until now, the College of Bishops has always chosen its own pressure. Now you go away from that principle, and it ends up they're now allowed to nominate three, and then the government is finally going to pick one out. You even go back to what you've given the Church of Democracy, and you hollow it out. Then it was the wish of the College of Bishops to relieve the Church of the administrative work associated with a press function. When one then argues so clearly from the Church that it should and must be in Oslo, I want to follow that advice. I don't want, as Tord Lien was in, a pressure that takes unnecessary time to travel. I want a press that is present throughout the country, that does the job, and that makes the Church visible in an excellent way. How that work is done then it must be exclusively the Church that decides for itself. So to the representative Aksel Hagen, who's making this into a discussion about the feather quota. It is a complete derailment of the debate. One would think that SV could also hold on to the principles and see that this actually ends in whether we are going to have a state church run by the Norwegian state via the Labour Party and the Stortinget, or whether we are going to end up with a church that is allowed to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e765	I was too tempted. I will not go up to any major new debate, but I will take the floor because of the representative Aksel Hagen, who from Stortinget's pulpit said that there was no great disclosure of what is SV's primary position on this matter, and that is not because it has revealed itself. But what's special is that there's a minority in the Norwegian Church that gets the backing of a majority government that actually has a minority in the Grand Duchy in this case. That means that in this case there is not much tenacity of democracy, neither in how we deal with the Norwegian Church, nor how the government lands this. There is a clear minority in this room that today overruns the Church, and it is worth one never so little thought. And just a brief comment on the Central Party that obviously mixes the Church of State and the Church of the People: there's nothing to suggest that a Church of the State is a better church of the people than a church that is allowed to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e774	I allow myself a few comments at the end. They are referred to as those who have spoken out – both county councils and others – and then it is important to go back and look at what they have been asked for, and when they have been asked. First, most of the statements came before the case was on the table. So they did not take a position on the matter. And secondly, as the representative Dagrun Eriksen now pointed out, it is essentially an answer to the question of whether it should be in Oslo, or whether it should be in Trondheim. So it's not, as far as the Council of State itself says, what's the main point in the matter. Then it becomes strange to refer to this as important arguments in the case. Then until the end of Trygve Battle Force Vedum. I want to make it clear: Yes, there was active participation in the Church, but especially in the case of church democracy, it is recommended to be involved and influence matters in the future. So Battle Violence Vedum and I very much agree on what's the main thing about participation in the Church, so we can take that further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e783	Then it seems that an engaging debate on case no. 1 is over. [[Fotation, see page 4006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e799	For countries with large natural resources, it is important to make the flow of money visible from extractive industries to the country and to strive for maximum transparency. Norway is therefore part of the so-called Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative – EITI – and the proposed legislative changes intend to clarify that government bodies should be able to comply with their reporting obligations under the EITI Regulation without prejudice to the confidentiality obligations imposed by other legislation. It is a unanimous committee which endorses the proposed amendments to Law No 29 November 1996. 72 on petroleum activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e811	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e827	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e836	Verma power plant is a hydroelectric power plant in Rauma municipality in More and Romesdal and is thus located in an area with significant power challenges. The debates around the power button in Middle Norway have been discussed several times in this room. The power plant uses a fall of 420 meters in the river Vermöa, which is a tributary of space. Verme water, Residual water and Long Water are regulated with ponds and used as a regulatory warehouse. Long-distance water lies in the watershed between the Verma and Valleldøla watercourse, and 1 m3 is transferred in the second with water to Verma. Longwater was regulated in 1962. Water is also transferred from the Middle Bottom River. The inlet station is located in Verma and has a volume of approx. 30 000 m3. This gives full operation of the power plant for only 3.3 hours. Vermaphossen is partially dry as a result of the use of the water by the power plant. Eleven have been regulated since 1923, and today's power plant has been producing energy since 1949. The work was expanded in 1953. The plant has a total normal annual production of 70 GWh, two turbines totaling 8.3 MW are installed and the plant is owned by Rauma Energia. The catchment area is 117.2 km2. In 1989, Verma's fall rights went back to the state as a result of a relapse. The dishes were later purchased from Rauma Energia AS at Rauma municipality. The challenge with the project is that Verma power plant with regulation is located in Vermedalen, in a lateral watercourse to Rauma. The room was as well-known protected by the Stortinget in 1993 in Verneplan IV for watercourses. The size laid down in 1993 the framework for allowing the upgrading and extension of existing power plants in protected watercourses. The size ended at the time of the government’s proposal in the proposal for Protection Plan IV, where one argued that upgrading and extension would not be comprehensive measures. For the two current options for upgrading and extension, there is a different view of what comes under the definition of ‘non-extensive measures’. The two current measures are either the extension of the existing input dam or the move of the input dam to Storhaugen. An extension of existing ponds will provide a production increment of 70 to 120 GWh, while the Storhaugen option will provide a production increment of 140 GWh. So a few words about the Progress Party's view of the alternatives. Its overall assessment is that the Storhaugen option will provide the best environmental, societal and business benefits. The Storhaugen project requires a minor adjustment of the watercourse protection plan or a derogation. Such an adjustment will contribute positively, environmentally and visually by the fact that an area of 35 km2 which is currently used for production in the old power plant, after upgrading, will flow freely into the Vermafossen and further into the Rauma river. This will provide a stable watering in Vermafossen throughout the year, as opposed to now. And Vermafossen is a powerful foot – when he runs. So this solution is going to be 20 million. kWh extra. So we're talking about an extra power for 1,000 households. After the Progress Party's view, we cannot afford to say no to this extra amount of power, precisely because it is environmentally friendly, renewable and renewable. Finally, I would like to raise the question of the Progress Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e874	The representative Oskar Jarle Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e877	I thought the case spokesperson had a thorough review of the challenges of this force project. The setting might seem a bit funny, for an outsider who reads it. So it's a proposal to adjust the protective plan. It is true that this project at Storhaugen is outside the dispensation possibilities of the protection plan. That's why it's a suggestion to adjust him. If you open it, you open it at the same time to simply undermine what the Storing has already done. If an exception or adjustment is made to this project, the result is the same. If you were to do something about it, I think you should have a holistic review of the Protection Plan for Watercourses. I think there's a reason to see if you can do it. In my own county party, we decided at the annual meeting to get a new review, assuming that force building today is something completely different than before. The other thing that's funny is that the setting says that a move, which is suggested, is a different option than what it's applied for. And the third thing that makes it funny is that the suggestions from the Right turn around and don't go in for their own suggestions in the setting. As I see it, the idea of moving the intake to Storhaugen is actually a good alternative. It increases power generation from 70 to 140 GWh. It's, as I said, power one need. It obviously introduces new interventions, but at the same time releases a previous intervention in nature. The ice-cream problem will then be much less. However, the point is that it is impossible without changing the protection plan. There have been so many rounds here that the conclusion is clear. The size has defined the upgrading and extension of existing power plants in sheltered watercourses to so-called ‘limited flooding/submersion’. It means that no matter how good or not well this project is isolated, it is not in line with the Storting's previous decision. In general, it must be said that the decisions of Verne Plan IV are well-documented and well-documented. In fact, the option currently applied for does not conflict with the requirements of the protection plan. There is now a treatment option at NVE, and it will hopefully soon be a decision on this application. The requested and currently processed option will provide a 50 GWh capacity gain, only 20 GWh less than the first requested option, which was in conflict with the protection plan. As I said, there's no doubt, as I see it, that this is the secondary option, but it illustrates that one through a good process has reached a compromise that gives good solutions, despite the fact that this watercourse is within the scope of the protective plan. It's about being solution-oriented and not problem-oriented. Then I also perceive that there is a broad local political anchoring for the option applied for, under the assumption that the Storhaugen option cannot be implemented by consideration of the aspects of the protection plan that the Storhaugen has previously provided. If one gets this done, it means 50 GWh new and renewable power generation that will come along well. It also shows that there are some things happening in this area. Both small and large projects are being planned and realized. For my part, I would like to welcome all such good projects, including this project for which it is requested, and for which I hope it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e903	There is a large potential from Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate, NVE, for upgrading and further exploiting existing hydropower plants. Here we are talking about installations that were built a long time ago, and new knowledge and improved technological solutions mean that there is a potential for further extraction of energy without necessarily at the expense of environmental values to an appreciable extent. In fact, upgrades and new solutions can often go to the service of the environment, either to release the land or to provide for increased minimum water flow in watercourses, or to obtain a minimum water flow in watercourses that have previously been dried. This is a potential for increased energy production and for increased benefits to the owners of our power plants – and they are known to be mainly public actors, such as state, county or municipality. Increased benefits to these means, in turn, increased resources for the further development of communities around and around society. The right is concerned that we should exploit these resources, both to strengthen our energy production and to exploit the potential for hydropower – but of course within the framework that is environmentally sound. Mid Norway has had a strenuous price situation in terms of power this winter, and the Right therefore wants to contribute to the strengthening of self-production in the area. This option, i.e. moving the current intake dam to Storhaugen, has been for treatment in NVE, which has declined the concession request, and Rauma Energi today has a different application for treatment in NVE. This application includes a project of upgrading and extension of the power plant in the form of changes in existing intake ponds and will result in an increase in power generation of 50 GWh. According to the NVE, this is a project that can be realised without conflicting with the watercourse protection plan. The right is in addition to strengthening the power balance occupied by the local self-government. On issues relating to the use of natural resources, it is important that there is local consensus on these issues. It will be a quite decisive factor from our point of view in relation to the interference or bonding of nature. In the proposal we are considering today, it was as a pre-requisite that the community in Verma wanted Rauma Energia to transfer the intake to Verma Power Plant to Storhaugen. This would be in line with a sorely intrusive upgrade of the power plant, as well as an increase in energy production from 70 to 140 GWh. In order to achieve this, an adjustment to the protection plan for watercourses in this particular case may have to be made. It has now become apparent in retrospect that this option cannot be said to have a wide local anchorage. For this reason, the Right wishes to support the application currently under consideration by the NVE, which is to carry out changes in existing intake ponds and is expected to deliver 50 GWh in increased production. The right is therefore proposing that the proposal for a representative to be discussed be annexed to the Minutes, and I would like to raise this proposal on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party. If it was later to prove that Rauma Energi does not receive a concession on the project that is currently under consideration, we will consider, on the right, the promotion of a new proposal for a representative at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e920	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e923	Then there is not much more to say about the matter. But I notice that in its well-meaning eagerness to show the power of action in connection with the significant power problems in central Norway, Right meets itself in the doorway in several debates. We saw it last week, when, on the right of the day, they boasted of being early out there and demanding CO2 cleaning from day one for gas power plants, suddenly decided not to leave it to Right Policy. At that time, CO2 cleaning from day one was no longer so important: when one could show the power of action and build gas power. And then the Right got an explanation problem. This is a similar strange thing. Usually, one would believe that the Right Strategy in opposition was to propose proposals that had local consent, at least the consent of its own party. In this case, this has not happened. That process does not require any further consideration; I am content to note that the proposers themselves do not want the proposal to be adopted. There are questions about why the proposal has not been drawn. On the other hand, one can trust that the Progress Party picks up the ball, and that has been explained by the representative Grimstad. Here has a chance to jeopardize protective provisions, and then the Progress Party is never far away. It should therefore be a pleasure for me to reject this proposal, and let the requested option, which has the support of a unanimous local government, as far as I know, go ahead in the NVE. Then I want the representative Røbekk Nørve to be happy to explain and handle this matter in his home media and in his local party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e938	There is no doubt that Norway, and especially Middle Norway, needs more new energy, and additional hydropower generation is a good way to secure this energy supply. The representative proposal we are discussing today has resulted in a previously requested upgrading and expansion under the direction of Rauma Energia, as the case-speaker did in a good way. The expansion would result in an increase in production of 70 GWh, but the project has been assessed not to comply with the Watercourse Protection Plan. It is also correct, as the Right column mentions here, that this option is more controversial locally. On the other hand, there is broad support for another extension option, which is also sought and which is currently being treated in NVE. There will be a production increment of 50 GWh, which is smaller than the Storhaugen option, but does not conflict with the watercourse protection. For the Centre Party, new renewable energy power generation is an important policy objective. At the same time, it is important to be loud in local processes and discussions, to find the balance between energy production and nature, and to have respect for those processes. So in this case, a local process has led to a request for a slightly smaller project than the one initially applied for. In return, this application has a solid local anchoring. And I hope that the case that is now in the NVE gets a good outcome. Such an extension and upgrading will give new power generation into an area that needs it to be damaged. And there's a broad deal about the local expansion, which is important for the positive trend of Rauma municipality now inside, with positive population growth, etc. So maybe this case is also a reminder, especially for the Right Party, that it might be nice to get involved in one thing, listen to different parts of the local population and follow even a little better on the processes that go locally, before one comes up with representative proposals in this room – even though the intentions have certainly been good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e951	We're in a fight for our globe. As we use our globe now, we destroy our own life base. Here in the hall, it's a majority who have a goal of moving to the low-energy community. Then the renewable society is an important step on the road. But we have to save energy, we have to use energy in a sensible way, and we have to phase out fossil energy in the long term. Norway is a major hydropower nation. We've managed our water resources well. We've created energy, we've created jobs, and we've created development through this administration. The power plants we have around the country are built with the technology of the day. We know that engineering has progressed. We know that there is a great potential for increasing power generation by upgrading and expanding existing power plants. We see it as a responsibility to be good administrators today in terms of the water resources we have. In it it is that we can also carry out upgrades and expansions in many places that do not conflict with natural interference. The matter that we are discussing in the Chamber today has been brought to light by the committee procedure. That's what previous speakers have been talking about. But on the part of the Christian People's Party, we hope that the issue that is now under discussion at the NVE – the project supported by the majority of the local government in Rauma – is a project for which a solution can be found, because this will both increase energy production and at the same time take care of the natural diversity we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e966	The next speaker is Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen, who is now back in the United Kingdom as Minister of Oil and Energy after a short vicarariat as Minister of Foreign Affairs earlier this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e970	Thank you for your welcome. As a result of the fact that the proposers have actually withdrawn the proposal, I see no need to contribute to the further extension of this debate. The big issue of renewable energy, we have different opportunities to discuss in this room. But the concrete proposal that was now being promoted, I actually see it as being drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e979	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e982	Icefall is a major problem in existing input dam today. The ice comes down the valley, enters the inlet pond, and in two cases has passed over the edge and down the train path and caused major problems. Nothing suggests that one can improve that bit when it comes to the application that is being made today. The reason is that the municipality of Rauma feels pressured to go for an extension – an extension of 300 million. What they saw for a while as the only possibility. What will the Council of State urge them to do when it comes to the ice-cream problem, which is not over by an extension, for which a multiple goes in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e989	I don't think I have any professional basis for going into a discussion about advice on icing watercourses. There are probably other and more professional bodies that are more suitable for that. As far as the matter is concerned, it is well explained, in the sense that there is also a question of the framework that the Stortinget has previously set for the protection of the areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e996	It is nice that we can also agree on matters from time to time. However, I still have a question for the Council of State, and it is on the move in dealing with the application that is now with Norway's watercourse and energy directorate. Does the Council have the opportunity to say something about when we can expect an answer from there?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1001	There are certain challenges to discussing individual matters in general, and I also believe that it would be wrong if, as the Council of State, I started to instruct the NVE in individual matters – which things are going to go ahead in the queue, and which ones are going to go back. I therefore believe that my role is to provide a framework for the activities of the NVE that enables them to handle matters at a higher pace than before. I believe that the queue around things in NVE has been too big. We have increased the appropriations, and this is how both Storting and I can expect the NVE to be able to deal with more matters than they have done before. In addition, through the letter of assignment to the NVE, I have defined which areas I think it is generally important for NVE to prioritise, and it has been defined as small power development and line-up – new power lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1008	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1013	Elva Vermöta has been regulated since 1923. Moving the current inlet dam to Storhaugen will result in a production increase from today's 70 GWh to 140 GWh without any new regulation in the watercourse. The need for increased energy access is very great in the area, and the old intake is in a very poor constitution. So it's urgent to get started with a repair. When Rauma municipality and Rauma Energia were denied their first application, which was about to move the intake to Storhaugen, they refused to appeal, as the Council of State, in its justification on several occasions, referred to the Protection Plan for Watercourses, which is a decision in Stortinget, and which will thus be the appropriate body to allow any adjustments to the protection plan. Rauma Energia and Rauma municipality considered an adjustment to the protection plan as very demanding and therefore chose to apply for the correction of existing intakes, which will result in a reduction of 20-30 TWh. Not knowing that there was an application for an existing admission, all the representatives at Mørebenken promised – and I say all the representatives – support for the Storhaugen option, which was presented to us in the election campaign and during bench visits in the county. Unfortunately, the case turned out to be more complicated and controversial in the municipality of Rauma than what came from information to Mørbengken. The right, which is not accustomed to overcoming local democracy, therefore, after a meeting with the Right-wing Representatives and the rapporteur in Rauma, chose to support local democracy and follow what was there and then the majority in the municipality. What happened after the meeting with the representatives of the Right and the rapporteur, from the Central Party, was that the General Assembly in Rauma Energia, which is also the municipal government, made a new majority decision, as stated by the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and, in fact, the Swedish People's Party, to continue working to realise the Storhaugen option. When the right in this round will wait and see if the application for the upgrade of the existing intake receives a positive response from the government council, it is not because we disagree with the Storhaugen option – no, on the contrary. On the right, the modernisation of existing hydropower is desirable, where one can use new technologies in a gentle way and get more renewable energy out of the individual watercourses. We accept that watercourses regulated within the protected area can be modernised to increase TWh if environmentally sound. It was on this basis that the Right promoted its proposal to move the existing intake for Verma power plants to Storhaugen, in line with what the local government in Rauma wanted in the first place, and was refused. Should Rauma Energia once again have its application rejected, Me and Right will once again promote proposals on the Storhaugen, if Rauma Energia and Rauma municipality can point to a decision with broad local anchoring. I would strongly urge both the Council of State and the Workers' Party and the SV to vote in favour of the Right's proposal to attach the proposal to the Minutes. Then at least they get their own in Rauma municipality far on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1032	The term ‘many creeks small does a great thing’ fits well in this case. The great welfare development that we have experienced here to countries has just started with all the small streams that become a big pond – and that has given us strength for industrial development through uprooting and hydropower development, which has once again given us many jobs and great value creation. As there were many and partly large and heavy hydroelectric power plants around the whole country, more and more of them called for us to put the brakes on in order to avoid the destruction of important natural areas for the future. That is why we have protected many important natural areas here in Norway. That's good. There are many small and large hydroelectric installations located in the periphery of or in protected areas. This makes it difficult to renovate and modernise the facilities. There has been a major technological development in this field. With new technology, we can now get a lot more power out of the plants than we could before. New technology also means that much more can be built underground and in the mountains, so that the installations are almost invisible. Several plants will thus appear more environmentally friendly with renovation or modernisation than they do today. I believe – this is at my expense – that we should have seen with new eyes whether the protection plans could allow for the renovation and upgrading of the hydroelectric power plant in question, where the overall environmental benefit would be positive for the area in question. This winter we have again experienced how demanding the energy situation is in parts of our country, especially in Central Norway. The government has launched many measures that have improved the situation, but we are not in target. The term ‘all monks leave’ also fits well in this case. It is important that we find solutions for the renovation of all the hydroelectric power plants associated with the protection areas. Warm power plants are such a plant. Rauma Energia’s plans for renovation and upgrading can further double the power generation in a deficit area. In August the NVE shall carry out an inspection in the area to assess the plans of Verma Power Plant. The NVE will then assess the options and considerations against each other, taking into account both the need for new power and the solutions that will provide the best environmental benefit. I believe that the NVE must make these assessments before a political decision is taken and that today's debate is at the wrong time. If it turns out that the environmental benefits of development are greater than the environmental disadvantages, I believe that government and enlargement should be open to grant a derogation from the protection plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1055	I take the floor because the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen had a comment on the Right's view of, and consideration of, the representative proposal we discussed last Monday here in Stortinget, on the demand for CO2 cleaning at new gas power plants from day one. In that debate I had a post where I said that the Right supported the proposal of the Progress Party. Unfortunately, it was not captured by the president and secretary, and so the right voted incorrectly during the vote. We have requested a protocol delivery on it without it being met. Then I understand that the representative Serigstad Valen and the Socialist Left wants to run almost a campaign against the Right in environmental policy. But I hope the representative Serigstad Valen is so grown up that he understands that when the voting in this case, which concerned CO2 cleaning at gas power plants, was wrong, it was due to a technicality that I hope he will refrain from using and using as an argument in the future, and rather look at what was actually said in the debate; that the Right wanted to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1070	The lowering of underwater waters, which is part of this application today, is seen as very difficult because of poor mountains, and there are significant quantities of concrete in it. That's one of the arguments. So it's this ice-cream thing, which I mentioned in the question to the Council of State. One has an ice gorge where it primarily stops production. But sometimes the problem is so big that the ice passage goes over the pond and down to the train path. That's a problem. So there are several things about the option that show that one has major challenges to implement, both in terms of cost-effectiveness and in terms of production. Then you talk about a wide local lashing. I have to say, I'm a little surprised at the right. I'm not going to say much about it, but when they require a wide, local anchor, does it also include Right, or is it enough that there is a multiple? So to the representative Hemdal, who indicates that there is a plurality that supports the extension of the existing pond. No, because there were six from the Labour Party, four from the Advance Party, three from the Christian People's Party, one from the Rauma Party, and then there was a local representative who knows more about the details of the project. He said that it is more environmentally friendly with the Storhaugen option – and he was from SV. So the representatives in this room would like to review their local representatives, even if they have local knowledge of what is most environmentally friendly. It's a little bit interesting to see. For what was it that was agreed at the General Assembly, read the Municipal Council? Well, that's the following: ‘The Rauma Energy AS General Assembly maintains the Decision of 31 May 2005, the ‘Storage option’ as the best and most natural option for the upgrading of Verma power plants.’ [[= local government in Rauma]] They then invite the Environment Committee to follow this decision in its attitude to the Storting. The named parts, at the size I'm referring to here, say that this is the best environmental option. When SV talks about meeting themselves at the door, I only show what the local SV has expressed. And when one here indicates that there's a full deal when it comes to the smallest option: it was a full deal in a hearing where one got presented different options around the extension of the existing pond, because the Storhaugen option wasn't up for debate at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1089	I can assure the representative Meling that I would not use problems in a voting order against the Right Party. I myself have the vote in mind in the U-864 case. I was actually not aware of this error until the representative Meling mentioned it now. What I was aiming for was that trend in debates specifically related to power supply in central Norway, gas power plants or the expansion of hydropower plants; there are two different right-hand parties talking in the main hall. It's the representative Røbekk Nørve, who likes to go a little further than the party's spokesman, the representative Meling does. It was expressed earlier in this week in the sense that on the right of the day they boasted of being early out with a requirement for CO2 cleaning from day one, a proposal to derogate from this requirement for power supply in Middle Norway was discussed. So I have to say that there is a rather spectacular evasive manoeuvre that is needed to make the handling of this matter a matter of whether SV listens well enough to its own locally. I can just repeat the point from my previous post. Once upon a time, if the representative Røbekk Nørve and Right had a completely tidy procedure here, perhaps one could expect them to vote in favour of their own proposal. So they don't, and I'm just taking note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1101	It was the post of the representative Grimstad that made me take the floor. When a local government turns into a general assembly, there are other rules. Yes, the representatives of the Christian People's Party in the General Assembly voted as the representative Grimstad has explained, but as a local government, there is another majority. The representative Grimstad is trying to hustle over the fact that all the batches locally and centrally do not always agree. Yeah, that's it. The Christian People's Party's representative in the Committee on Energy and the Environment has presented this to the local representatives, because we are drawing other conclusions, and I think that is quite fair. That's how we feel. We must focus on a comprehensive policy that these representatives do not always fully agree with. It's democracy, and so is our party. So I have nothing to hide in this case. I'm just referring to the vote, where it says there's a broad political consensus about this particular option in the local government in Rauma.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1128	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1137	The issue we are now dealing with is a proposal from the Progress Party for a national plan for wind power deployment in Norway. It is not the first time that the Storting deals with such a proposal. Similar proposals have been promoted by the same party three times in the past six years. It has always been rejected by Stortinget. This time, too, a broad majority will reject the proposal. If we are to meet the climate challenge, it is important to move from today's fossil energy sources to renewable energy. Wind power will be an important part of this conversion. Norway has large wind resources, perhaps the best in Europe, both on land and at sea. The EU has high ambitions for a transition to renewable energy. By 2020, 20 pst. energy consumption in the EU comes from renewable energy. This is why in several EU countries wind power has been significantly invested in recent years, despite the fact that their resource potential is often much lower than that of Norway. Norway will also be required to increase our share of renewable energy when the EU renewable directive is applied to us. At the same time, a single electricity certificate market with Sweden will make wind power more profitable. A significant challenge, in addition to the cost side, when we are going to increase our renewable energy production in Norway is a comprehensive bureaucracy and associated long-term treatment. A time period of up to five years is too long. We therefore do not need an additional state bureaucracy through national plans. An overall plan of wind power will lead to a significant increase in the investigation requirements for builders, while an overall plan would not be able to go deep enough to reveal all the necessary issues and factors that could affect the individual wind power location. Such a plan will thus have little real value. It is only through impact assessments for each project that we can draw the necessary conclusions on conflict potential and suitability. It's not going to pass that wind power expansion is controversial locally in many places in the country. All energy production has environmental consequences, and wind power is primarily about the visual impact of our coastal landscape, noise and concern for bird populations. We therefore need to find good local solutions in individual cases. However, the answer to this is not national plans, but rather a regionally coordinated treatment of wind concession requests, as it is today, so that the overall impact in a region can be assessed and the wind power plants are placed where they have the least adverse impact on the local environment. In fact, when the Right does not support the proposal of the Progress Party for a national wind energy plan this time either, it is because we want first and foremost more to realise the wind power potential in Norway. There is no doubt that the approach adopted here by the Progress Party will hardly contribute to the deployment of more renewable energy in Norway. On the other hand, this could pose a significant risk of even more red tape and more hands working on planning, without avoiding conflicts related to wind power generation for that reason. For the Right, who wants more renewable energy quickly in place in Norway, there are two points that we believe are absolutely crucial. One is that applicants have to put economic conditions in Norway that are better than today’s conditions. Conditions need to be put in place that are comparable to our neighbouring countries. Hopefully that'll give us a green certificate market. The second is that we must have a much faster processing time in place. These are the two bottlenecks that have contributed to the fact that things have gone too small. So we don't need any more plans. We need faster and better treatment. In the light of this, I recommend that the Committee be set up, where a majority of the Committee proposes to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1158	I'm not going to spend a long time on this post. I refer you to the rapporteur's detailed statement. I just want to add a few comments to the matter. It is being invested in wind power in Norway. The bet has its limitations. As long as the price level of wind power is as it is in relation to hydropower, there are limitations in it. We have large support schemes for the development of technology, the development of new methods, as shown by the fact that we have the large windmill of the company Sway, which is to be built in Eyegarden with great public support. We have Hywind in place, and other projects are to be built. However, the rapporteur pointed out that there are other bottlenecks as well. We have strengthened the NVE's procedural capacity. But we also have, which is crucial in many cases, local resistance to windmills. This resistance cannot be organised away from the proceedings. That resistance has to be addressed on the individual points and entered into proper debates. There is no doubt that windmills cause major interference. In some places it'll be quite easy to do these interventions, all in all, in other places it'll be more problematic, and in some places it'll be very undesirable to do it. It is primarily through individual matters that this will appear and the big discussions will come. Although I characterize myself as a socialist, who does not want free capitalism and has a great sense of plans, I would say that I don't think such a national plan for wind power will do much to remove the bottlenecks and the problems that are actually there, that have to be dealt with in connection with wind power development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1169	Let me start by taking up the proposal from the Progress Party. Let me also say that when the Progress Party wants a national plan for wind power, it is neither to give an advantage to wind power nor to offend it in relation to other technologies. This must be seen in full with the other proposals made by the Progress Party. We want predictability in energy policy. That is why we have promoted the desire to have a plan for the state of energy of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom, where we can assess the whole. We want to have a hydro-power message to get a bet on it. Similarly, we want a wind power approach. The background here is simply that all parties on the Stortinget – perhaps more than the Advance Party – have had great goals for wind power in concrete terms. We have set a target of 3 TWh wind power, to which the Progress Party has been skeptical, because we have said that we should have a technology neutral approach, but the goal exists. So anyway, the other parties say that we can't have an overall plan in the approximation of this, because the most important thing is to realize projects, get started quickly, and we can't spend time on investigations. Initially, I am not happy with big plans and a lot of bureaucracy. The party of progress is the party that should have made such a claim at the last time, but we see that the goals that Stortinget has now set are not being met. The target of 3 TWh wind power would have been met this year, but the government has now gone away. So you can no longer hide behind that now it's urgent to get started, it's so important, that we can't have these plans. So one has used the same excuses every time the Progress Party has promoted this proposal, and so we have not seen any particular results from it. I can also mention that SV supported this proposal when they were in opposition, but no longer supports it when they are in position. It's probably saying that you don't want to commit to the goals you've set. One of the challenges facing the wind industry is, among other things: that the instruments used by the authorities to stimulate wind power are constantly changing. In three to four years there have been three different wind power support regimes, one going back to a green certification market, which then becomes the fourth. One goes from having systems that almost only stimulate wind power in relation to other technologies to getting a technology neutral system. I am very pleased with technology-neutral arrangements, but the changes from feed-in to investment support for green certificates are constantly creating uncertainty for an industry that is very capital-intensive, where the profitability of many projects is very strenuous – to put it mildly. At the same time, in all political statements that a wish to invest in wind power on land has created a bonanza of projects that have pop up all over the country. It in itself creates conflicts. You get a lot of projects that are probably never going to happen, and that are probably pretty poorly placed, with too many mills, but that create a fear in the local population that there can actually be some of the projects. By having an approach where a national perspective says that some areas are not relevant in any case, other areas are very relevant because it is wanted locally by the local authorities – there are good wind conditions, there are no defence facilities, there are no environmental values that make this problematic – you can channel these projects into these areas, get the discussion there and let go of the discussion in the other areas. One is also corrected – I was saying – the energy from the power industry towards projects that have a greater probability of becoming something of it. It is worth noting that Alexandra Beck Gjørv in Statoil – at the Sola conference in January this year – expressed a frustration that much of the energy that the power industry and oil companies have spent on renewable energy is not producing enough results, and that one might wonder how sensible it has been to do this. It's a warning to us politicians, given the framework you set for the way you work. I think it's a little strange that the bulk of the population thinks there's obviously a need to have a comprehensive plan for hydropower, while one doesn't think there's a need to have it for wind power. Part of the bulk of the population also says that this is where detailed sub-plans for wind power are made – they meet the needs of the Progress Party here. That argument was very strong at the front last time this was debated, a few years ago. I now find that there are very few counties that have made such a sub-plan. The county that has been praised for being a party of the past, namely Rogaland, sees that the plan that was once adopted is not considered to be particularly binding on the NVE when dealing with issues. This means that there are plans that do not meet the needs of the Progress Party. That is why it is desirable for the Progress Party, in order to have a better focus on wind power, to have a national plan. That is why we hope that our proposal will be supported in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1190	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has withdrawn from the list of speakers. The next speaker is Line Henriette Heimdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1195	Norway has the best wind map in Europe. In 2000, Stortinget decided that we would have a production of 3 TWh by 2010. Unfortunately, we have not made that clear. This goal has been scrapped. There were 3 TWh production, and in the time after this it was decided – if it thought that the spade had been put in the ground. But what the Stortinget decided in 2000 was a production of 3 TWh wind power during this year. For a country with the best wind map, this must be described as a failure statement. If you're a wind power builder, you have to have a lot of endurance. It'll take a long time. If we look at the NVE's website, today there are ten projects at the hearing. There are 113 under treatment, and 46 projects have been granted a concession. Not only does it help to get a concession, we know, it also needs financial support to trigger this production. Such a level of aid has been so far, there has been too little financial support to obtain to trigger what we need for production. Enova supported three expansion projects on 10 May, one in Finnmark, one in Nord-Trøndelag and one in West Agder. This is good. Multi-annual government since 2005: Government parties write in their note that wind power is one of the government's bet areas. I really hope that wind power is not one of the government's bet areas, when we see how few wind turbines have been built under today's government. In today's press, in the newspaper, TNS Gallup's Climate Barometer, which says that 74 pst. the population is in favour of wind turbines on land. That's an increase from one year ago, then 69 pst. the population responded the same way. There are interesting observations that Enova’s chief wind power manager comments on: ‘Inhabitants in areas where wind power is planned have lowered their acceptance for such expansion. In the municipalities that have developed wind farms, the acceptability is increased by seeing the ring-effects, inter alia, in the form of more jobs.’ It's not going to go under the chair that there's also resistance to wind power expansion, but we see that this resistance changes when you first get wind power in its vicinity. These are important things to include in the further work that is to be done. The issue we are dealing with today is a national plan for wind power. We don't feel that waiting for everyone to finish their regional plans will make us move faster to the goal of increasing wind power development. That is why the Christian People's Party does not support this proposal, which we did not do in the previous period either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1213	In recent years, more efforts have been made to streamline and strengthen concessional treatment, and results have been obtained. To achieve our objective of increasing investment as best as possible, including: on wind power, the concession treatment of wind power and networks is now coordinated regionally. In this way, projects within each region may be assessed in the context of both consultation parties and authorities, and the best and least conflicting projects selected. We have also introduced criteria that provide a clearer order of priority for the treatment of projects. These are effective measures to speed up the emergence of good projects and to find the development solutions that, overall, are most favourable to the environment, the community and the security of power supply. Regional plans also contribute to strengthening the decision-making basis of concession treatment, and such plans have been or are being developed in the process of most of our main wind turbines. A good example of this is Fosen and Namdalen. On Monday this week, the NVE announced that four wind power projects associated with network connectivity in this region had been granted a concession. Additional four projects requested will be decided for the autumn. This was the result of a comprehensive assessment of a total of 27 wind projects and many different network solutions promoted in the region. This coordination has provided the NVE with a good basis for assessing projects against each other and made the process more predictable and transparent for both industry and interested interests. The Regional Plan for Southern Trøndelag was part of the decision-making base and made an important contribution to regional policy balances. I believe that we have come up with good processes for assessing wind power projects through thorough concession treatment combined with the grips we have taken in recent years. I have noticed with satisfaction that the NVE's coordination has been well received by many, both in the industry, in the community and in stakeholder organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1225	It's obvious that the upcoming football World Cup is more important to many than a debate on wind power today; we're going to let that lie. The objective of 3 TWh wind power has been adopted and underlined several times, so it should have been in the current year. Much indicates that we are coming about. One third on the way. Is this an objective that remains firm for 2010 – if so, when does the Council of State believe that one will achieve a target of 3 TWh, if the objective remains at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1232	The representative Solvik-Olsen asked the same question in this room for a relatively short time back, and my answer to it is no different now than what it was then. We continue to work to realize wind power projects, to increase their production, while at the same time we have informed Stortinget that we do not reach the target of 3 TWh. Then, from 1 January 2012, we will have a technology-neutral, market-based support system, which will contribute to the realisation of good wind power projects both in Norway and Sweden. It's a new system, it's a different regime than what we've seen today. It also means that we are now – both through Enova’s general use of instruments and in relation to how the certificate market will work – at the start of a new phase, a new time in terms of support, how the wind power industry will be supported. These are the facts about this case, and I am very optimistic about the development of wind power in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1240	The answer the Council of State now gives, I've heard before, but what I'm trying to get a little clarity on is: is there still a target of 3 TWh wind power in Norway, and in that case – what dates and years has he put on it? Or has the government completely gone from having years on its promises? In that case, the government should not at least have submitted a case to the Stortinget that the objectives to which the Stortinget has given its support for more than ten years actually change, so that the Stortinget can also say that it is ok – not only be informed without any opportunity to give a recording back.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1245	The Stortinget is now informed that the objective of 3 TWh is not feasible. So that this should be something that the Storting has no opportunity to think about or involve itself in, I disagree. In addition, the objective – as the Stortinget is also familiar with, and as the Stortinget will be further briefed through appropriate documents, when the framework is in place – is to achieve a level playing field between Norway and Sweden in relation to green certificates from 2012. There will be no explicit objective for wind power because it is a technology-neutral system, which means that the support crowns will go to the ten most reasonable projects. It's obviously going to be another system. There is another form of objective that can be used to base that system. It will not be possible to set a specific target for wind within green certificates, but it will be a renewable energy target, and it will be very effectively followed up through a market-based system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1250	The Progress Party believes that a comprehensive wind energy plan will provide the best solution. The plan must include solutions for, inter alia: network problems and power take-offs. The network needs to be strengthened. And what about a surplus of power? My question to the Council of State is this: does not the Council of State think that the creation of an overall wind energy plan must be much better than the state plans for wind power, which only take into account their own state? After all, the government is responsible for the whole country, and if the states individually develop these plans, there will hardly be much interaction between the different states.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1255	I could almost be tempted to keep my post one more time. I believe that I went there in a good and concrete way through the work of the government, through the NVE, now doing in relation to just the efficiency, concreteization, seeing networks and wind power projects in the context, and then also looking at which projects are the most sensible to take first. I used the Fosen as a good example in that way, and it's a result of a concrete and wild policy, both from me and from the NVE. I believe that we have made a good step forward now, precisely in terms of this with coordination. In the case of other networks, I expect the representative to be aware that Statnett has created and presented an ambitious web development plan for Norway in the future. It is also part of this major context that the representative calls for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1262	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1267	The last replicator made me take the word anyway. In the election campaign one could get the impression that no renewable energy is being built in Norway at all, under the red-green regime. In particular, at this time the Right was ‘high and dark’ and the Right leader Erna Solberg and others. claimed that only one windmill was built in Norway under the red-green. After a humiliating fact-finding in the excellent fact-finding instrument of the Bergen Official Journal, the opposition echoed the claims, but the tone of the debate is often the same today. Over the period 2006–08, there were twice as many new renewable power generation in Norway as in the other Nordic countries combined. A new round is announced in the Enova wind power programme, and a number of projects are under construction, built or completed. I think there is a great deal of consensus that Norway should invest in and give priority to wind power. At the same time, wind power development can be conflict-filled – it recognises even the Progress Party – and can lead to local conflicts that are not desirable. This was Mr Hemdal's representative inside. The need for good planning is therefore absolute. No-one has earned renewable energy as a result of unacceptable natural interference and persistent conflict. The party of progress also seems to be concerned about it now, but then it's interesting to note that in most other contexts the party is on a very liberalizing line on such issues. After all, I am tempted to challenge the representative Skumsvoll to repeat his principle approach that sometimes the national should take national interests into account, see things in a broader context – for example. when the representative, Skumsvoll, participates in his campaigns for what he calls local self-government, but is actually a political campaign to undermine the rights of all people in matters of coastal zone. I do not consider the Progress Party to be the most keen defenders of protected watercourses and nature. However, the objective of new renewable energy production is agreed upon at Stortinget. When it is difficult to identify factual disagreements, the last option for the opposition is often to propose investigations, communications and plans. The debates we have in the field of the environment are going on. But there won't be any more windmills because we're postponing wind power until we have a new national plan. This does not mean that we cannot strengthen regional plans as an instrument. The opposition believes that the Rogaland case shows that the NVE does not attach sufficient weight to the plans. But there are signals that it is quite possible to give, without waiting for new projects to be planned and expected to take a long time. If the Progress Party is concerned about the development of wind power, it would also be interesting to discuss with them how insistent they are on the fact that technology-neutral solutions are the only gratifying. I believe that the truth exists somewhere in between, and that at a time like this, when we're going to bet – really bet – in the years that are coming, maybe we shouldn't be too bombastic in our view of such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1278	Some corrections to the last article are needed. Firstly, what the opposition said in the election campaign, at least the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, was that it was built only one red-green windmill. It's solid. So it's just Hywind who's been looking for concession and being built under the red-green government. It has been built windmills that received a concession and were started under the Bondevik administration, but completed under the Stoltenberg government. That's absolutely right. But what we pointed out was that there's no one who's got new concessions and actually ventured to get started. This is because the uncertainty surrounding the framework conditions has grown under the red-green government, not been reduced. Yes, the red-green government is granting more money now – yes, you can ask for a line – than under the previous government. But none of these increased appropriations have happened to protests from the opposition, so this has been something that everyone is behind. We have more money to spend now than we had before. But we should also remember that the money that has now been granted is granted as a substitute for not having a green certificate, not because it has come in addition to anything. So this is a crisis solution if we can call it that. The government indicates that they have granted money, not that it has been the optimal solution. Now, hopefully, the optimal solution for the future, with technology-neutral, green certificates from 2012. That's what the Progress Party is very pleased about, because that's the principle approach we've been through all along. Then the representative Serigstad Valen puts himself a little uncertain about the Progress Party and the local self-government in this matter. Let me stress and remind the representative, Serigstad Valen, that the Progress Party, in the last period, proposed that no municipality should be forced into wind power projects against its will. This shows that we care for local self-government. Similarly, we are sceptical that the municipalities that want wind power projects in their municipality should be denied it by central authorities. I'm not saying that we completely exclude it, but there should be very burdensome reasons. But there, a national plan with input from the municipalities could ensure that the projects were channelled into the best places. Instead of being able to apply everywhere, there's a huge conflict between municipalities that don't want it initially, and the builders who want it, and an authority that doesn't cut through. Then the representative Serigstad Valen says that if we are concerned by the progress party that the county wind power plans are not being followed up by the NVE, they can signal that this is going to happen. Yes, the government is going to give such a signal, it's a step in the right direction. But I did not feel that the Council of State gave notice of any such signal, nor that he has done so before. So it's an explanation from the representative Serigstad Valen, which I don't think is a follow-up to the government's policy. Finally, let me stress that for the Progress Party, there is no desire to operate on either to prioritize or to discriminate against any technology. We want all actors to expand power and deliver in a competitive market to compete under the same conditions. Then we can have other conditions where we need to demonstrate technology, but then we're not talking about the commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1309	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1318	The size has, through six decisions, protected important national natural qualities and a representative sample of Norwegian watercourse nature, in the Verne Watercourse Plan. The protection applies primarily to power build-up, even if other interventions are also to be taken into account. The size decided in 2005 that it could be opened for the concession treatment of power plants with installed power up to 1 MW in sheltered watercourses. In the birch stream, the limit was set at 3 MW. The assumption was that such expansions should not weaken the protection values of the watercourses. Our government is moving in to significantly increase renewable energy production. This will also mean an increased investment in hydropower, and it will be important to identify the good projects. Our country is full of watercourses that are not protected. I therefore believe that the focus must be on developing these in a reasonable and appropriate way, rather than focusing primarily on those of our watercourses that are protected. It is also such that, when the Stortinget dealt with the supplementation of the Verne Plan for Watercourses in 2009, Stortinget assumed the establishment of a test project with comprehensive management in the Weefsnavastre, where it could be facilitated for smaller and gentle hydropower generation released from the maximum limit of 1 MW. This trial project will be interesting to follow in the light of the proposal we are now discussing. I also find that that project is under way, and it is continuing to work on it. I agree with the proposers that new technology can provide opportunities that were not foreseen when the protection decisions were taken in due course. There's a track that we'll see how it evolves in connection with the Weefsnavastre, but it's also clear that there are other recordings and situations around that it's all right to look at, in terms of how we can do these things in a good way. One point in this, which I think is a little important to bring with it, is that with the evolution that we see in the future with extreme weather, it may be desirable in some areas to have the possibility of flood regulation that power generation provides. I will by no means reject that this is a good idea. We want to gain more experience before we go on this track. But, as I said, we do not put down the foot bastant, and we therefore recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1331	In all the energy debates we have on Stortinget, representatives from the red-green parties stress the importance of increasing renewable electricity production. In the comments of a Joint Energy and Environment Committee, minus the representatives of the Progress Party, it states: ‘The majority therefore believe that the climate challenge must be a top priority in all policy issues and that climate considerations must lead to policy decisions in a number of areas.’ And on the other hand, ‘The majority point to fossil energy use and production as the main source of greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore a transition from fossil to renewable energy is necessary if we are to meet the climate challenge. The majority point to the fact that almost all Norwegian power generation today comes from renewable hydropower and that Norway still has a significant potential for increased renewable power generation.’ With such a clear and clear note to Innst. 319 S is incomprehensible and illogical that the committee's red-green majority is opposed to the proposal in the proposal for a representative now under discussion. Most of the watercourse protection plans are from the beginning of the 1980s. Development methods have changed significantly since then and have become increasingly environmentally friendly. The Progress Party agrees with Senior Advisor Haakon Thaulow of the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, NIVA, who is acting as Technical Weekly in May 2008. Thaulow claims that new knowledge of watercourse regulation and the environment must lead to a review of old watercourse plans, including previously protected watercourses. Today's deployment of power plants is more gentle than before. This means that many protected watercourses could benefit from the construction of power plants with a concession limit of 3 MW. The Small Power Association fully shares the view that the power of small power plants in sheltered watercourses should be increased from 1 MW to 3 MW. Here we have a parallel case for the Centre Party from the debate we had in Stortinget on 3 June on the scheme of grants for small power plants built between 2004 and September 2009. Most owners of small power plants are farmers who want to use the farm’s water resources to increase farm income. Outside public meetings, etc. it seems that several of the red-green politicians can contribute to increasing power from 1 MW to 3 MW. In particular, the chairman of the Committee, Erling Sande of the Centre Party, shall have said at a meeting of the Bondelag in autumn 2009: ‘I have a personal sense of being able to expand the limits of what can be developed in protected watercourses from 1 to 3 megawatts.’ This is a courageous opinion of the Chairman of the Committee, Sande, which is fully supported by the Progress Party. What is a pity, not least for the centre-participators who own small-scale power plants, is that neither in this important matter has the centre party been able to hear within the government. SV members are probably also the brake block in this sensible case of increasing the production of renewable electricity in Norway. SV is essentially finished with hydropower expansion. Although SV uses every opportunity to decipher anyone who wants Norwegian oil and gas production to continue, and calls these environmental statements, it does not change SV’s view of more hydropower expansion in Norway. For SV, wind power is now applicable both on land and – preferably – at sea. In addition, bioenergy is also mentioned, without the lot boasting much of its management of the biodiesel case during the previous harvest. The cost of producing wind and biopower does not appear to be a concern for SV’s representatives. The bill is covered either by subsidies or by Norwegian consumers. The Committee considers that it is illogical for the majority of the Committee to oppose extending the concession limit from 1 to 3 MW, as proposed by the proposed representative. Hydropower is renewable energy, the cheapest and most environmentally friendly measure that can be used. In Norway, hydropower accounts for approx. 98 pst. of all electricity produced. It seems that the majority of the Committee does not realise this, but prefers the vision of large-scale wind power deployment to land and sea to deal with climate problems. Finally, I address the joint proposal from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1362	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1365	Earlier this week, the NRK was able to report a report from the International Energy Agency, the IEA, which placed Norway on an almost jumbo spot on a ranking of countries in Europe and their efforts to generate new renewable energy. In this overview, Norway was the second worst country in Europe. This is a location in which the energy nation of Norway cannot be satisfied and which at least is not satisfied with the right. We have ambitions within the energy field and want us to be more able to take out the potential of hydropower resources for our country. There is no doubt that small-scale power is an important source of income for individual landowners or farmers around the district of Norway. This helps to strengthen the nutrient base and income of municipalities and thus to maintain a good offer for the municipality’s inhabitants. Of course, the small power potential also has a dimension in the balance of forces as such. Although these are smaller power builds, as is known, many streams make small a big pond. Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, estimates that the remaining potential for the development of small-scale power in Norway is about. 18 TWh. Thus, overall, small power will also make an important contribution to the overall picture of electricity supply. Furthermore, hydropower, as has been said from the Chair earlier today, is an excellent source of energy from a climate perspective. Our watercourses also represent important natural values, and several watercourses form part of that land in protective plans. Thus, we are cut off from small power expansion in these watercourses if the installed power does not exceed 1 MW – with some exceptions. In the birch watercourse and the Wefsna, this concession limit is up to 3 MW, and the Right wants this to be the rule for all watercourses within the protection plan. There are two important elements that should underpin how we approach protection issues. One is, of course, being able to clearly define the purpose of the protection. What are the values that we want to take care of? Secondly, the challenge should be to ask the question of how to find good, balanced solutions between use and protection in each area. The right is behind the desire to preserve important natural values along our watercourses. At the same time, we see that the design and solutions of today's small power deployments can be made in ways that do not conflict with the protection values and the purpose of the protection. The right considers that we need to be able to have a pragmatic approach to these issues, where we ensure a better balance between use and protection. By following such a trail, I also believe that individual communities can see greater benefits in terms of the protection of sites and watercourses that link the possibilities of economic activity or other types of intervention. In the case of the birch watercourse, despite the opening which has been given up to 3 MW of installed power, no concessions have been granted in this watercourse. Several are being treated in the NVE, and the length of the procedure is unfortunately long. It is important that the government now makes visible that they actually follow the Stortingen’s wish to open up to 3 MW of small-scale power generation in this watercourse. As I said, it remains to be seen. It is positive that Wefsna also received the same type of derogation, but from the Right we do not need a postponement of the decision to open up extensions of up to 3 MW in sheltered watercourses. In any case, each application will be assessed on an independent basis in relation to whether or not the measure has to be said to conflict with the protection values of the protection plan for each watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1384	There is no doubt that the world will need more renewable energy in the years ahead. We need a transition from fossil fuels and the fossil economy. We would like an electrification of the socket and not least of the transport sector. It requires – we are all agreed on – a greater green energy production and, in this respect, an absolute ability to think new. So far, I think we all agree. To challenge protective values is not exactly new from the right side of Norwegian policy, nor is it very wise. Starting their reasoning on the need to meet the climate challenges with new energy, then jumping straight at an attack on or a hollowing of protective values, we seem to be a bit too easy to approach the whole thing. It's not where the greatest and necessary potential lies; it's not in sheltered watercourses. Even I come from a state, Uppland, where protecting areas and watercourses is not a problem or a handicap for social development; it is simply a necessary prerequisite for good social development. Not least when it comes to watercourses, polydrug use is often a good keyword. Developing hydropower often hinders such multi-use. At the same time, there is no doubt that developments have made it possible for hydropower generation to produce more gentle natural interventions than it did in the past, which many people have experienced. In the Wefsnavastre, we know that it opens up to small power plants that are released from today's maximum limit, if the power plants do not conflict with the protection values. From this point of view, SV is open to us to gain experience from what will be done here. What we recommend is just to take the time to help, have a little low shoulders and reap some experience before a draw some absolute conclusions, which can have consequences for all protected watercourses throughout the country. Here, as usual, it is often tricked to be experience-based and knowledge-based, taking time to gain some necessary experience and knowledge before we possibly go further and raise the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1397	I have, in some circumstances, been delighted to be quoted in the Committee's Committees, and in this case from this pulpit in a clear way, and for once quite in line with what I have actually said. When it gets repeated here, if I get so bold, President, I just have to say that it was well said that time, and I have no problem standing by it that day. The hydropower is a renewable resource. She is the main contributor to our stable, good and clean electricity supply in our country, and there is nothing to suggest that the water power value will be less in time. The large hydroelectric build-up created a debate: Where would the boundary go between energy production on the one hand and nature on the other? Was it right for all the large river basins to be developed, with the damming of large areas, the construction of ponds and the pipework of the waterfalls? Then came the plantation, as an answer to these debates, which has given as a result that the Storting has decided plans to take care of some of our most valuable watercourses, considering the natural values. One of the rules attached to watercourse protection today applies to the 1 MW power plant ceiling. Then we know – and it has been mentioned by several before here too – that two watercourses are exempt from that rule. The government now says that it will learn and gain experience from the watercourses that are not bound by that rule today, when it applies to each boundary to be drawn in the future. I don't see it as one could get a bit of an impression that the opposition – at least the Progress Party – tried to present it as, that this was a rejection of looking at this question. On the contrary, there has been a constructive debate, and it has been expressed the desire to look at and get experiences from rivers where this is flexible today. That's a very good solution. From the centre party's point of view, we have been concerned that protective plans of a different kind should focus on the real purpose of protection, i.e. not on measures that do not conflict with their purpose. Many sites will be able to build power plants over 1 MW finely, without this being contrary to the protection purpose of the watercourse or leading to significant interventions in nature. Paradoxically, it's actually so that having such a rigid limit can lead to more interference in nature, because it builds several small power plants instead of one slightly larger, in some cases. Therefore, there is good reason to look closely at the watercourses that are not currently bound by this legislation, to see if a code can be found in which each water-power project receives an independent assessment – in any case they should – and that one, insofar as it does not break the purpose of water-track protection, looks at the possibility of realizing the power plant. It'll be good for the environment. There will be good business policies as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1412	The size has, through six decisions, protected important national natural qualities and a representative sample of Norwegian watercourse nature, in the Verne Watercourse Plan. The size decided in 2005 that it could be opened for the concession treatment of power plants with installed power up to 1 MW in sheltered watercourses. In the birch stream, the limit was set at 3 MW. The prerequisites were that such expansions should not weaken the protection values of the watercourses. At the end of the supplementation in 2009, the Stortinget provided for the establishment of a test project with comprehensive management in the Weefsnavastrestre, where it could be facilitated for smaller, gentle power generation released from the 1 MW maximum limit. In this context, I would just like to make a brief remark that it is not right that the members of the Committee from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party have raised the limit to 3 MW for Wefsna. This limit applies only to the birch watercourse. For Wefsna, consideration is given to the protection values alone that count, without being related to a defined limit. The possibility will be clarified through the test project with overall management. I agree with the majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, which points to the threat of serious human-made climate challenges, and that this calls for a transition from fossil to renewable energy. This is in line with government policies, which, both in the interests of security of power supply and in the interests of climate change, are in the process of significantly increasing renewable energy production. It will also involve increased investment in hydropower. I also join the majority of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which indicate that today's power development can be carried out more gently than before. As regards the plan project in Vefsna, it is true that this majority points out that the Stortinget has provided that consent to development must not conflict with the protection values. However, it is my opinion that, if expansion projects over 1 MW are available that can be carried out without weakening the protection values, hydropower development will be achieved primarily through the exploitation of hydropower potential in unprotected watercourses. The main focus of viable projects will therefore lie there. As pointed out by the majority of the Committee, it would also make sense to look at what can be learned from the plan project in Vefsna. The Stortinget has not set any other installation limit here, but provided for less conservative power development that does not conflict with the protection interests. It will be exciting to see what comes out of this planning process, whether it is possible to find acceptable development projects and their characteristics. Once we have gained experience from the tissue, it may be worth considering whether such an approach or an increase in the concession limit as proposed here can be sound in other protected watercourses as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1430	In their comments on the case, the parties to the Government wrote that: ‘The climate challenge must be an overall consideration of all policy issues and that climate considerations must lead to policy decisions in a number of areas’. On this basis, it seems strange that the same batches are in favour of increasing the power of plants from 1 to 3 MW in sheltered watercourses. The question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State consider that an increase in power from 1 to 3 MW in sheltered watercourses is such a weight in the decision that in this case the climate challenge needs to be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1443	Sick if we have a very big climate and climate change challenge, it is not that we can neither lose the Norwegian coast with windmills nor expand any possible hydropower project in Norway. We also have to have an overall assessment here as to whether there are other values that are desired. This is about it. It is about a balance, a balance between the desire to realise renewable energy production and the desire to also preserve important values through protection. And then I said sail in my post that I'm open to assessing whether the 1 MW limit can be raised when we have more experience with what it means to combine the desire for protection, as we do, for example. in the Weftsnavastre, with the desire to produce renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1450	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State says that the government is open to assessment. But I would have liked a little more impatience on behalf of all those farmers and landowners in District Norway who have a potential that they cannot use. And I also think it's a little easy when the Council of State says that we need to focus on those who have space outside the protection plan, and not on those who have areas and properties that are protected, because they also have a right to further develop the potential that the property represents for them. I would like a slightly different impatience to include all protected watercourses, and give them an opportunity to build up to 3 MW. In the birch watercourse, which has had this opportunity over some time, there is not yet a concession for that kind of expansion. Could we learn from that? Why do we need to spend more time before we get a final answer to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1457	I believe the answer to the question is not more complicated than that this is a balance. I really don't think the representative Meling disagrees with the fact that in terms of the desire to build more renewable energy and the desire to protect and preserve important natural values, there are some boundaries. There's some balances, it's not either-- or. Through the openings that have been given, also to expand the power generation in sheltered watercourses, we're trying to find such a balance point. I have not said today that the balance point – the boundary – that is today, is cut in stone. I have said that we are open to assess that limit when we have something more experience of it than what we have today. That, I believe, is an open attitude. There is a desire to be pragmatic in seeing the balance between the potential for energy production and the availability of important natural values. That's what I'm going to follow up on in practical politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1464	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1469	The climate challenge is the biggest challenge facing the world today, it is strongly asserted, and especially the left-hand side of the policy therefore believes that the climate challenge must therefore be a top priority in all contexts. Measured against new technologies that allow water power to be expanded much more gentlely than before, one would also think that this solution would be active on the left-hand side. But no, this is not the case. The Small Power Association also concludes that there is little difference between the measures whether it is built for 1 MW or 3 MW, also in the physical measures that need to be implemented. This means that many protected watercourses could benefit from built-up power plants with a concession limit of 3 MW. It is also known that several politicians from the red-green government parties in the press, at the public meeting and others are in charge of increasing the concession limit for the treatment of power plants from 1 MW to 3 MW. Among other things, the leader of the committee, Erling Sande from the Centre Party, shall have said the following at a meeting of the Bondelag in the autumn of 2009: ‘I have a personal sense of being able to expand the limits of what can be developed in protected watercourses from 1 to 3 megawatts.’ When Minister of Oil and Energy Terje Riis-Johansen spoke to the County of Hordaland on 3 March 2009 about the government's small-scale energy policy: ‘The government says in Soria Moria that we want to exploit the potential in the construction of small, mini and micro power plants’, we see once again that governments and big business representatives are saying one thing, but in practical policy they are doing something completely different. This is not credible, and when we see that the consequences of such a policy are a struggle for mobile gas power plants, I ask myself: Where is the Socialist Left Party climate exposure now? Once again, the opposition has highlighted a good, forward-looking and environmentally-friendly proposal for increased power generation quickly, but is voted down by representatives of a government that thought it would be much better to spend billions on mobile gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1492	The President has noticed that the quotation from the Chairman of the Committee is about to become very popular here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1495	When the quote is correct and I can help raise the quality of the content of the posts from the opposition, I'm just happy about it! Had the representative Grimstad been in the Chamber during the whole debate, he might have learned that this has been a very constructive debate, in which the Council of State has not in any way rejected the proposal, but said that this is something that now will have experience from the watercourses where one has this legislation, and is open to discuss this in the future. So I hope that the representative Grimstad, when he sees the referendums from this debate, can walk from here with a slightly easier mind in relation to the discussion we've had on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1518	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1527	This representative proposal is about whether the State should contribute to the establishment of a test and demonstration programme ‘Demo 2020’ for marine wind technology in Norway. Petroleum history to Norway is a proud story that has contributed to great wealth for the country. It was important strategic choices that were made as early as the late 1960s and early 1970s. History shows that positioning in new markets, seeing new opportunities and having politicians taking action and governance in areas that are important for Norway as a nation and market has given much back to the Norwegian people. So far it's hard to say what marine energy will mean for Norwegian energy supply in the future, because it's technically demanding, it's expensive, and it's about positioning in an international market. In order to achieve this positioning, the domestic market is important. It is therefore essential that we have good test and demo projects in place here at home. Research, testing and piloting are factors that can help improve the profitability of marine wind in the future. The government wants to build up during this development. This is why the government has focused on research, development and full-scale demonstration and adopted its own law on marine energy. It provides public control and control of the disposal of our renewable energy resources at sea and is based on elements of petroleum legislation. The law also indicates that we are putting renewable energy at sea. Looking at the renewable directive, it can also help to increase demand and the willingness to pay for Norwegian renewable energy, if we look at this in the long term. Flexibility of mechanisms can help foreign actors come to Norway with their national support systems in their backs and want to develop wind power right here. What really supports this is that General Electric will now turn Norway into a central country in the company’s investment in sea wind. There is a broad consensus that the cost of sea wind needs to be reduced and new solutions developed. The Government’s key tools for the Norwegian Research Council support early development activities. Enova supports full scale demonstration and qualification of technologies under real operating conditions. Innovation Norway also has complementary instruments. The government has raised the research budgets for renewable energy and carbon capture and storage by more than 600 million. kr since 2007. The government has set up a new instrument, research centres for environmentally friendly energy. Two of these centres are researching new solutions and better sea wind technologies. A third center sees, among other things: the consequences of increased integration of wind power into the power system. Enova has a special role to play in the full-scale demonstration of new technologies. This shows that the government has contributed through its instrument to the development of marine energy technology. The energy, supply and research industries have also taken clear steps to participate in the development of markets both in the southern North Sea, in UK wind power projects, outside Scotland and in Germany. The majority of the Committee in this case also points to Norway’s advantage in markets based on the value of the maritime cluster and its ability to enter the market through a unique value chain competence and good cooperation between the actors. The Committee also considers that GIEK as an important player should contribute to this market. It is important that they actively follow up Norwegian yards and technology companies involved in offshore renewable energy projects. It is estimated to have a market of between 700 and 900 billion. to be invested in energy production for offshore wind turbines in Europe over the next 10 years. This shows large and exciting dimensions, which gives little doubt that sea winds will be a large growth area in the future, and that they can provide great industrial and energy opportunities. I would therefore recommend the position of the Business Committee in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1560	This is a matter in which one does not initially have special conflicts about the good wishes one has for what one will achieve with Norwegian sea-based wind power. But it can quickly become a matter that ends up in the range of many other pious wants on behalf of renewable energy in Norway, where political goals are great, but where one gets realized very little. That is why it is important to take this debate and see how to stimulate Norwegian business, so that one actually gets to implement at least some of it as a political desire. There is no doubt that the potential for sea wind power in Norway is very high in technical terms. At the same time, we know that there are significant technological and, not least, economic challenges to enable this to be a technology that can compete on its own in a commercial market. While this is obvious, we saw in the election campaign last fall that the country's Environment Minister traveled and looked at the one floating windmill we have in Norway, and expressed that the mill was a prototype to help Norway contribute to the EU's 20-20-20 objectives. Ergo: Norwegian sea wind power was supposed to help Europe with renewable energy, according to the Minister for the Environment. I don't believe in that. I don't think it's going to be commercial windmills at sea on a special scale in Norway over the next ten years. It is precisely when the country's leading politicians give such impressions, while the framework conditions do not make it a reality, that the policy is playing itself a puzzle. I believe that, first – in such a political debate – we need to make our assessments of what we believe to be developed in Norway. Is it a domestic market to be the driver? Or should we be set up in an export-oriented supplier industry? I think that's the last thing we have to do, and then the policy instruments have to be set up. If one believes that commercial wind turbines at sea in Norway are to solve this, we can have other instruments through support, subsidies, for construction. I think it's important to have support schemes for demonstrations, so that the suppliers we have on the way home, which is a prerequisite for being nice, can demonstrate their facilities, get help to prove the technology so that they can travel into the world and compete. If the supply industry in Norway is to wait for tools and framework conditions to build this commercially in Norway, this will never happen. Then the rest of the actors would not be able to be early out and compete with contracts in England, and then the train would have gone for them. We should remember that we really have a pretty bad time if we are to make sure that Norwegian industry is involved in this from the start. In England, investment decisions shall be made over the next two to three years. There is no guarantee that Norwegian companies will participate in this although Statkraft and Statoil are central as builders. Because although Statkraft and Statoil are never so many national patriots when they talk to us, they are driven by commercial considerations. The enterprise that can deliver the best product at the lowest price will be the one that wins the contracts. If Norwegian companies cannot then show that they have done this before, or can show that they have built things that work, they do not do very strongly. You have to prove that you can do this. This isn't just a theory. We know that in a lot of countries it's investing in this. The reason why we should not do this in Norway commercially is that we have so much resources on land that are much more robust, much more sensible and much more profitable to expand, so that we prioritise it. But since the Energy and Environment Committee was in England in February, I am convinced at the same time that the English are serious when they want to build wind turbines at sea, because they do not have the same resource base to land as we do. It makes it absolutely interesting to go in that direction for Norwegian companies and for Norwegian politicians. But that's exactly why it's also important that we get decisions on demonstration facilities, pilot plants, now, not necessarily because we think that this will lead us into the sea tomorrow, but because it will give us clear political decisions that this will happen. Then they can start investing from the industry to follow this up. There is no one who wants to invest in green technology today, who dares to do it based on politicians' promise that something will come tomorrow, purely rhetorical. We have seen that in the case of wind power to land, and not least in the case of small and biofuels. The trust there is exhausted. A decision provides greater security of decision for the actors. We've talked to actors who are involved in the oil supply industry, and asked what interest they have in investing in wind power. They say that per. Today it's not money. The interest is zero. We can't expect other private companies to invest in sea-based wind power just because of political desires. We have to make sure that the framework conditions are in place. Then we have to have demonstration facilities, so they know they have a place to bet, with government funds at the bottom. I take up the proposal which the Party of Five, the Right and the Christian People's Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1577	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1580	In Soria Moria it is stated that Norway will be an environmentally friendly and world-leading energy nation. Climate challenges and expected energy needs in the world in the future require a massive shift from fossil to renewable energy sources. Marine energy can get us a good deal towards that goal. Sea energy represents an almost unlimited reserve of power. The potential is great. Enova has calculated that the physical potential for sea wind in Norwegian waters is staggering 14 000 TWh per year. years. The realistic level of use of marine energy is probably smaller, but there is no doubt that marine energy has a high potential. To put it in perspective: 1 TWh is about the annual power consumption in the Drammen. Soria Moria also states that green jobs in energy production and environmental technologies will become a new growth industry in Norway. Investment in ocean-based renewable energy represents good opportunities for Norwegian enterprises and communities of excellence. The global market for offshore wind power is expected to increase rapidly. Norway has a significant advantage through our experience of oil and gas production on Norwegian soil. We have extensive experience in building, operating and maintaining sea-based installations. We already see that new markets are opening up. And it is gratifying that Norwegian players are involved in the construction of what has been described as the world's largest offshore wind farm. Marine power generation technology is still at an early stage, with both economic and technological challenges. There are also challenges to the development of offshore power grids. The only full-scale floating windmill in the world is just put into operation. The commercial availability of renewable energy production requires even more research and technology development. In addition to the technological challenges, the environment, safety and industrial activities shall also be taken into account. The size has recently adopted the Marine Energy Act, which states that energy installations are to be planned, built and disposed of in balance with the environment, safety, fisheries and maritime transport. In this setting, it has been shown that there has been a great deal of activity in the sea wind sector in Norway in recent years. As part of the follow-up to the climate agreement, in the period 2008-2009, the government increased the research allocation for renewable energy and carbon capture and storage by 600 million. kr. The government has also set up two research centres for environmentally friendly energy in sea wind. The climate agreement agreed to establish a demonstration programme for the development and introduction of new renewable energy technologies offshore, with a framework of 150 million. kr in the 2009 government budget. It was further agreed that a national strategy for the generation of power from sea mills and other marine renewable energy sources should be established. The strategy presented in Ot.prp. No 107 for 2008-2009, was a follow-up. I would also like to show that Enova has set up its own demonstration programme for new technology with a framework of 250 million. kr in 2010. The scheme includes, inter alia: supported Statoils Hywind demonstration project outside Karmøy and Sways planned 10 MW turbine. I am pleased that an overall committee stresses that Norwegian competence environments must be given the best possible prerequisites for taking a leading position in the development of future sea wind projects internationally. On the part of the Centre Party, we are concerned that the government should facilitate the achievement of good results in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1610	I am sorry that I was a little late and did not hear the initial speakers, but I can assure Stortinget that I have read the comments. It is true that there is a strong consensus both in technical and commercial environments in Norway that sea-based wind power will be a significant growth market in the future. We have a lot of sea and a lot of wind. But we also have financial opportunities to contribute to the commercialisation of this kind of technology. The Committee agrees. The Committee also agrees that Norway, with its maritime background, in the offshore sector and not least in the shipbuilding industry, has a lead in transferring such competence to sea-based wind power. It is even a special remark from the government parties that underlines the transfer value from the maritime cluster. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that Norwegian environments of competence must be well placed to participate in international competition for just such projects. We just heard about this from the Central Party spokeswoman here. The Committee has also considered the current markets and points to large-scale investment plans – in Germany, in the United Kingdom, in our neighbouring countries. The special thing about them is that they're paired with financial support schemes, which make it attractive with such output, and it's a huge market. At home, sea-based wind power is not so competitive, but it does not mean that we should not be involved in industrial development in an area that is well suited to us. After all the agreement that has been in the Committee on how attractive it must be to get Norway into such technological development and industrial production, I am a little surprised that, in the case of concrete measures, which this proposal is about, the government parties are relinquishing. In order to enter this market internationally, it is absolutely necessary to establish such a national test and demonstration programme as the opposition parties here have agreed to propose. You have to be qualified to participate in the big world. Commercialisation and industrialisation of our research results need birth help. And it's urgent. We are not alone in planning this. Other countries, of course, also see these markets, which may have been estimated at up to 1 000 billion. kr. They see that these markets exist and have established references through national demonstration programmes and commercial projects based on their own technology development. The projects that come up will be large, and they will set great demands for references in an industry that is immature here at home in Norway. And it is most likely – if I know the sunmers and other rights – that Norwegian workshop companies, the maritime cluster, for which not least the case rapporteur is often a strong spokeswoman, are going to be part of this competition. But I think that without a certain contribution from the authorities you will lose. It will strengthen to lift this young industry in Norway. The Norwegian supplier industry is well advanced in many areas, but it does not keep up with this force, because this is new. Other countries will facilitate the widest possible provision of national supplies in their countries, as usual. Such a demonstration and reference project, which we are talking about here, shows the national picture. That is why we must be good, because we have had no industry in this area so far. I believe that this is urgent, therefore, this proposal. This is actually active industrial policy at its best. Therefore, I am surprised that the government parties are paying close attention to praises of their interest. It's relatively reasonable, but it's a little funny that once you've agreed on the significant market that's there, you don't want to take any action that can materialize these opportunities for jobs and export revenue. I repeat what I have said, at least once before, that these are no visions of the future that are far ahead. This is urgent because others are doing something now, and then we also have to do it. The State shall not bear all costs. Right doesn't want that. We want to set a limit on participation, and so do the proposers. However, this issue is a school example of how to give signals that the state is an active partner in industrial policy – even unknown rhetoric for government parties. What are we going to live on after the oil? is a oral cavity used in many matters. This case puts exactly that statement at the head, and therefore it is discouraging to remain standing again only with tribute remarks on the importance of this from the government parties. I hope the government parties use the summer to think about it. There will be a budget in October. Then you often have the opportunity to bring along good ideas from the opposition parties that you have listened to here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1631	It makes me happy that the right side has left its laissez-faire relationship with capitalism, as they were powerful exponents for the last time they were in government. There is now a completely different willingness to talk about the public's role in industrial development, industrial development and climate policy, as one felt that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party were concerned about when they themselves constituted the bulk of the population together with other citizens. Few things make me more happy than the idea of a Norwegian sea wind adventure. I think everyone in this room agrees. Not only do we have a great potential for wind projects on our own base, we also have technology environments that can make this possible, we have FMEs in two of the country's major cities that work with offshore sea winds, and not least we have vast expertise in offshore fields through oil activity and a supplier industry that we all have a responsibility to give a new role as oil is phased out. This could be a large export article. The Progress Party has now presented a statistics on how many hundreds of thousands of wind turbines we need to build on a Norwegian base in order to correspond to the amount of energy we currently export through oil and gas. It's the mildest thing to misunderstand the point. We're sitting on the technology and resources to export marine wind technology to all the countries that one day will no longer depend on the oil and our gas. It is in such a perspective that we need to see this case as well. It is not Norway that is going to build all the wind turbines in the world itself, but if we change our mind, we can become a great supplier. The representative Fleet is absolutely right that this is already happening. As far as I understand it, the United Kingdom is already inside its third concession round for offshore sea winds. One of the most demanding experiences I've had with the Energy and Environment Committee so far is not dealing with a matter, but it's the trip to Hywind in Rogaland. It may not sound so difficult to sit on board a boat and be transported from A to B, but the jam was not bleached by the committee members as the waves threw us around. I believe that both the representative Henriksen and the committee leader Sande can sign that it was an immediate relief to go up on deck and see Hywind show up. That was good for many of us. There is a lot that remains before there are hundreds and thousands of such wind turbines in Norway. Technology shall be further developed and public facilities to assist such projects in profitability shall be fine-tuned. We're already in good shape. During the period 2008-2009, the government increased the research allocation for renewable energy and carbon capture by 600 million. kr. Our strengthening of Enova includes a dedicated demonstration program for new technologies with a framework of 250 million. kr. Statoil and Statkraft are inside the Doggerbank in the United Kingdom and are thus a bridgehead for Norwegian technology and suppliers there. General Electric establishes a marine wind research and technology centre and adds the production and maintenance of test turbines to Verdal. I myself have visited Smartmotor, a company in Trondheim that has come out of the NTNU and SINTEF environment, which is also working with such technology, and which is a very exciting company. We have several professional environments for offshore wind power in Norway – many companies. I have not heard strong calls from them to centralize this research and development effort in a new state centre. Right-hand side, and especially the Progress Party's newfound zeal for national planning in a number of things that we've been dealing with over the past few weeks, is to a large extent joyful and interesting, which I initially commented on, but I think the industry, the business community and the research community themselves have a good idea of what they're doing. Our job as politicians in view of what is in an active industrial policy should be to facilitate this to become a new Norwegian industrial venture by having precise support schemes and good follow-up through Enova, and to assess other instruments, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1646	The increased greenhouse effect has been on the political agenda for over 20 years. The Christian People's Party believes that words and statements, which we have heard a lot about today, must now be translated into action. This must include not only concrete emission reductions and clean-up, but also high levels of new renewable energy. In order to stabilise the global temperature at a level that you can live with – approx. two degrees warmer than the average – researchers say that global CO2 emissions need to be reduced by 50-80 pst. by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. This is the reality we have to deal with. Sustainable and long-term solutions must be given priority over what is cheapest here and now. Compared to other countries, Norway has a special energy situation. Norway’s electricity production is based on renewable energy and there is still good access to renewable energy resources on land that can be put into use and that are more reasonable than sea-based renewable energy. With the current cost level of offshore marine energy development in Norway, not least liquid production, it is not realistic to consider a large-scale expansion of marine energy in Norway with the first. However, it is important that Norway contributes to the development of competitiveness in sea-based energy and that Norwegian companies are given the opportunity to build up competence through projects in the field. Norwegian authorities have allocated funds to two research centres for marine wind energy. In addition, Innovation Norway’s Arena programme supports two projects to develop powerful industrial clusters of suppliers of marine wind technology — one based in central Norway and the other in the Western world. This ‘quadruple’ is cooperating to develop and qualify Norwegian industry so that international market positions in marine wind technology can be further developed. This they want to realise through Demo 2020, which is to be an arena for test and demonstration projects. Although Norwegian industry has a good starting point, it is not likely that it will be in a position to deliver without a coordinated testing and demo programme, with the exception of some major players who have experience in operating on the export market. We are therefore promoting a proposal together with the other opposition parties, asking the government to contribute to a state-supported demonstration programme that can qualify Norwegian technology and services for the major markets in Germany and the United Kingdom, where supplier qualification and acquisitions come too far in 2013 and beyond. The European Wind Energy Agency (EWEA) aims to install 40 GW wind power in Europe by 2020. It will produce in line with the entire Norwegian hydropower. The organisation believes it will be invested close to 150 billion. kr in wind only in 2030. Together, Europe will invest about 1,200 billion. kr in wind power from today until 2030. In other words, this is a great potential for Norwegian players. Since there is no Norwegian domestic market for this industry, it is necessary to establish a national testing and demonstration programme to provide the industry with the necessary references to qualify for supply to the European markets. At the same time, such a programme will be necessary to commercialise and industrialise R & D results from research centres. Such a programme should be implemented by 2012. It is important to develop new technologies to meet the climate challenges. If we are to achieve the goal of a zero-emission society with a reduction of at least 85 pst. in global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, it will require a technological quantum leap. It is therefore necessary to focus on developing new technological solutions that are not necessarily cost-effective today, but are necessary if we are to achieve the climate objectives in 2050. We need to put in place new technologies that make our production and consumption sustainable. Sea-based wind power must therefore be one of several areas of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1670	Only a brief explanation of vote from the Left, too much wise has been said by the proposers. The left is a co-rapporteur for this proposal for a representative and therefore supports the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the vote. As early as 2007, the left handed over a representative proposal on investment in wind production, based on sea mills. This was voted down by the government parties. On the basis of the above-mentioned representative proposal, it was important for the opposition to be involved in the climate agreement on marine energy production, and I believe that this is the background to the government's motion for a resolution, which has been mentioned several times here today. As left wrote in the 2007 representative proposal: ‘As part of such an offensive initiative, it should be considered to establish a centre for research-driven innovation in wind power based on marine mills and to establish a mechanism for investment support for demonstration installations based on marine mills. It should also be considered to require all offshore licences to explore solutions for offshore renewable power generation as climate action.’;» It is disappointing that the government parties are voting down this opposition proposal – a proposal that could generate exciting industries and research environments in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1685	The Storting's decision of the Marine Energy Act establishes a regime for the opening of areas for concession applications for offshore wind power. A NVE-led directorate group is now in the process of assessing the most appropriate areas of Norway’s seas. When presenting the strategy for renewable energy production at sea, the government has also signalled that smaller wind power projects and smaller wind farms, which are part of the development and testing of technology, will be given high priority by the concession authorities. However, sea wind costs need to be reduced and new solutions need to be developed. Research, development and demonstration will henceforth be one of the most important ways of promoting sea-based power generation, both in Norway and in other countries. Norway’s Research Council and Enova are the government’s main tools in this regard. The Research Council supports activities early in the value chain and the development chain. Enova supports full scale demonstration and qualification of technologies under real operating conditions. Innovation Norway also has instruments that complement Enova and the Research Council. The government has raised the research budgets for renewable energy and carbon capture and storage by more than 600 million. kr since 2007. The total appropriation for research on CCS, renewable energy, energy use and energy systems is more than 800 million. kr. Of this, about 675 million. focused on renewable energy, energy use and energy systems. Wind power is a high priority. We have set up a new instrument, research centres for environmentally friendly energy, the FME. Two of the eight centres are researching new solutions and better sea wind technologies. A third center sees, among other things: the consequences of increased integration of wind power into the power system. It is also appropriate to recall that within a growing Enova budget, which has been increased from 700 million. kr in 2005 to SEK 1,8 billion. kr in the current year, it is now set by an allocation of 250 million. kr for various demonstration programmes. Sea winds will be of the technologies that can apply for this. There is therefore a significant potential, there is a significant opportunity to apply for support for marine wind projects, and so just get this public start-up aid that I believe many today have been concerned about. An important element of this overall maritime wind strategy is also Enova’s thematic commitment to renewable marine power generation, which was established in 2009. Through these various measures, the government has given Enova a special role to play in the full-scale demonstration of new technologies. I am sure that the large increase in research funding and the establishment of the FME will trigger new projects requiring a strengthened support regime also for full-scale demonstration. It is also the case that, through the creation of the 2012 Electricity Certificate Market, we have the opportunity to release resources in Enova and make Enova a clearer tool targeting demonstration programmes, and to be a more developmental player in the renewable sector. There are many initiatives to test new energy technologies. It is important that initiatives are coordinated as far as possible and that industry actors cooperate. I am therefore in favour of the established cooperation structures under the FMEs and the Marine Winds Arena projects. I would also like to add, since the international spectrum has been drawn into the debate here today, that the Ministry of Oil and Energy, in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade in 2009, established INTPOW, Norwegian Renewable Energy Partners. Through INTPOW, the Ministry wishes to contribute to an even better capacity for the energy industry to exploit the requested international potential of this industry and of this sector. There is little doubt that marine energy is a large growth area in the future, which opens up major industrial and energy opportunities. The government is committed to facilitating Norwegian actors to take part in this both inside and outside Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1711	When I read the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, this is largely about wind power development in Norway and a few lines about what is international. This opposition proposal is not incubated into a vacuum. That's because industry, the workshop industry and a lot of other demand support and opportunities for the internationalization that you're now seeing come, and you're not strong enough to go into it yourself. I would like to ask the Council of State about the following: Does he think that the government's strategy for Norwegian exports of equipment to this industry is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1720	We have some experience in this area. We have been able to develop an oil and gas export industry over 40 years, which has become a formidable success. We're at the top of the world in the supply industry. We have products that are at a technological level that are formidable, and we have made it clear in an interaction between energy production in Norway and the construction of the supplier industry also to be the best in the world. I think it's the interaction that has to exist also in the case of offshore wind. We need to have a development on Norwegian pedestal in parallel with that we have a supplier industry that is developing to also work internationally. This means that the idea we have now put up with from the government, which is partly based on the development and setting up of a domestic market when we have the technologies more applicable than today, will provide a market for technology development, while, through the creation of INTPOW using public funds, we will also be supporting players when these companies want to go internationally. I see a lot of synergies between what we are doing today through industry towards other markets, and what we can do through sea-winding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1727	Today’s debate has been most marked by differing views on the instruments needed to help the supplier industry out in the world. Some representatives, especially from the red-green parties, have had the impression that one would be able to commercialise a lot and compete abroad because Statkraft and Statoil are in and have contracts, without one seeing the same strong need to put in place test and pilot facilities. Then the question is, to what extent does the Council of State think that there will actually be a domestic market for ocean-based commercial wind turbines over the next 10–15 years? I remember the Council of State saying that he said that he didn't think it was going to happen the last time we discussed this, in March. So really the question is, does the Council of State stand firm on this point of view, or has things changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1734	I can assure Stortinget and the representative of Solvik-Olsen that what I said in March still applies. I believe I informed Stortinget very correctly in March 2010. So my attitude is that we have a long time horizon on this in relation to developing Norwegian base in terms of ocean-based energy production. It is not because there is a lack of will – on the contrary, the Stortinget has adopted the framework for it, and we are spending money on this – but simply because it is a way to go from the Hywind mill outside of Haugesund today to commercially viable projects and wind turbines that tackle both weather challenges and economic challenges related to having to produce energy far away from land.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1741	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1746	The energy needs of the future, as the Progress Party sees it, must be covered to a much greater extent by the production of renewable energy sources. The renewable energy sources we have more than enough of in Norway are among others. wind and water. The representative proposal under discussion today focuses on the opportunities offered by research and the exploitation of sea winds. Norway is a country with a long and diverse coastline, beneficial for the establishment and development of marine technologies. Unfortunately, we have not had a long-term strategy to exploit this until now. The Progress Party sees the investment in wind power as a unique opportunity for us to make ourselves more self-sufficient in energy, to meet the need for energy, not least for industry. In this context, reference is made to the Christmas/winter energy crisis 2009-2010, due to a lack of coverage of the energy needs of the power-intensive industry in Central Norway. In addition, this could enable us to become independent of imports of energy from abroad produced from fossil energy sources such as coal. Over time, the Progress Party also sees that it will be able to provide us with opportunities to export power, so that our neighbouring countries can cut down on their own polluting energy production and thus help these countries to achieve their climate goals. It is positive to record that Norwegian companies such as Statkraft and Statoil are central to the development and establishment of offshore wind farms. Companies that work within the same industry, but which individually have special training in technology development for the extraction and production of relatively renewable and non-renewable energy sources, can, in the context of this, provide major synergies for the development of technologies and the production of climate-friendly energy for future needs. Such cooperation can also have a major positive impact on professional and educational institutions in the field of Norway. In addition, it is noted with satisfaction that foreign companies show interest in investing in sea wind in Norway, through the establishment of research and technology centres in Oslo. It is positive to record that Norwegian competence in offshore and renewable energy is requested in an international context. However, we note with concern that Statkraft has not yet been given a clarification of its enquiries to its owner, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, to ensure access to capital in order to develop its special competence in research and production of renewable energy and to expand on the international market. Instead, the red-green government chooses to reduce the company’s equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1768	Actually, I think this case is very straightforward, and initially, we agree completely in all areas. Maybe there's just a couple of reflections that it's okay to take. Firstly, where would the discussion of the opportunities for Norwegian competence to win an international market in sea wind be today, if not for the initiatives taken from 2005 to today? Yes, then we would have been far from that step and the position we initially have now. I think it's a confession to take, because it's actually over the last five years the possibilities have come, and it's over the last five years that you've really focused on the potential that lies there. Secondly, I think it is important not to overplay in the rhetorical zeal, which I think some people can do in this matter right now. Now I'm not going to refer to special posts, but I think it's important to focus on the fact that in this case you're really very grouped together. I'll say a hundred percent agree with Ketil Solvik-Olsen when he says we have to put ourselves on a commercial line. That is absolutely necessary and absolutely correct in a future perspective, at least from the point of view we now have. I fully agree that the opportunities offered by the major investments outside the next few years need to try to position Norwegian industry and Norwegian knowledge to participate. It is crucial in a future value added scenario. In fact, all these areas are in agreement with the Committee. There is no disagreement. It is also the case that the opportunities for testing and developing technologies are very good. We have a highly up-to-date tool in Norway, now more and more targeting the area we are now discussing, towards environmental technologies, towards new, challenging, exciting industries that it is important that we take part in. Then I think it becomes very artificial that you try to present this matter as the big gap between individual parties and the government parties. We agree. We have jointly asked for special attention in this area. We agree that we want to facilitate good results in this area. It's wrong to say there's a distance between the position and the opposition here. What is the reality is that thanks to the initiatives this government and the red-green majority have taken in recent years, we are in a position where Norwegian knowledge and Norwegian industry can actually go out and win contracts out, based on technology that is still somewhat uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1781	The chairperson of the Committee has given strong notice that the Committee really agrees on most of the issues, so that it would be unnecessary for the opposition to run up here to make comments, perhaps also to make proposals. He says that we agree on most of it. Yeah, that's right. I also said that in my first post. But we conclude differently, and the position is not in favour of any other good proposal. So we don't agree, we agree when the position comes after. But really I took the floor for a little visa to the representative Serigstad Valen, who made my post a visit. The representative Serigstad Valen is talking, considering his young age, very much about the period 2001–2005 in this country, while we are now in 2010, and he should really be more concerned about what is going on right now. He talks about the Right having left capitalism when we have this kind of proposal. No, we've always been for a mixed economy. But the strange thing about this case here is that when we propose to have a demonstration program that requires some support from the state, we reject, among other things. Serigstad Valen's party in the committee. And what do you rely on in the comments? Yes, at the American company General Electric. That's what's going to rock it all, as well as Norwegian companies' own efforts. When we hear the Council of State repeat what he said earlier in this Chamber, about a very long time horizon for wind power in Norway and in Norwegian sea areas, I just have to repeat what I said in my main post, that I think it's actually urgent with this case, and it also carries the message of the representative Serigstad Valen. Except for his kick to the Right of capitalism, he really honours our proposal. And what I see is that he's very sorry that he didn't have the opportunity to vote for it in committee or when it comes up here in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1789	I think it's good to get some clarity on some points. So first of all, on the part of the government parties, we are not rejecting the proposal. We ask for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. We are quite clear in a joint committee comment that we are concerned that the government is actually facilitating results for this technology from an international perspective. Similarly, I believe that the instrument we have set up, which has received substantial export reinforcements aimed at environmental technology development, should be tested before instructing different pilot and demo plants from Stortinget. I think it is absolutely necessary to use the possibilities created by the recent – to say – redispatch, preparation and precision of the instrument. The possibilities are many, and I think we have the full opportunity to bring this technology into competition with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1796	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1799	I cannot say the following: I understand that the representative of Aasland too would have preferred to be able to do something else in this matter. It is absolutely correct, purely technical in relation to how Stortinget treats its cases, that the matter is not rejected. What has been the essence of the statements from the opposition is why the position does not vote for the proposal. They don't. I think this is a bit out of the rhetoric of Aasland that he wants to agree with me, because it's at least in the document that's up on my desk.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox After it had been called to vote, said [[Fotation, see page 4008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1811	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1820	During the debate, Svein Harberg has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The rapporteurs have asked for separate votes to be taken on the proposals and first voted on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to show respect for the democratic processes of the Norwegian Church and to follow the church’s recommendation that the new president of the Bishops’ Meeting be held in accordance with the conditions laid down for the treatment of the church bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1837	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow the Norwegian Church’s recommendations regarding the procedure for the selection of a new twelfth bishop to be held before the Bishops’ Meeting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1916	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1926	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1934	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Oskar Jarle Grimstad, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 2, from Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose, during the spring 2010 session, an adjustment of the Watercourse Protection Plan to enable Rauma Energie AS to be implemented in More and Romesdal’s plans to move the intake to Verma Power Plant to Storhaugen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1957	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:73 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e1982	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote a national plan for the construction of wind turbines in Norway. The plan is proposed, inter alia, to provide an overview of costs, positive and negative environmental aspects, impacts on travel, security of supply and the like.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e2009	During the debate, Henning Skumsvoll has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the concession treatment of power plants with installed power up to 3 MW in watercourses protected by the Protection Plan for Watercourses.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e2036	During the debate, Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the establishment during 2011 of a State-supported testing and demonstration programme, ‘Demo 2020’, for marine wind technology in Norway, where industry is also involved in the financing of the State contribution, in order to contribute to the increased qualification of Norwegian environments of competence and industry in the delivery of marine energy in Europe.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-11.ana.ud999e2067	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
