ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e22	The called alternate of Akershu County, Abid Q. Raja, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Øyvind Vaksdal on leave from 4 October to 7 October and from the representative of Mr Geir Pollestad on leave from 4 October to 6 October, both for participation in the 2010 session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Part Four, in Strasbourg by Mr Mette Hanekamhaug on leave from 4 October to 7 October in order to take part in the 123rd Conference of the Central Party Group on Health leave of Ms Anne Tingelstad Wøien from 4 October to 7 October and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg DaleFor Uppland County: Johannes RindalFor Rogaland County: Terje Halleland and Arne Bergsvåg
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e77	Jon Georg Dale, Johannes Rindal, Terje Halleland and Arne Bergsvåg are present and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e85	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e88	On behalf of the representative Abid Q. Raja and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen environmental considerations in the construction of power lines. On behalf of the representative, Mr Q. Raja and myself, I would also like to make proposals on the choice of lines and technological solutions for the power line on the Ørskog-Fardal route.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e95	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e98	On behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to introduce measurable road standards and the establishment of independent transport supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e103	The representative, Anders B. Werp, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e107	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Nikolai Astrup, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Svein Harberg, Trond Helleland, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Lars Bjarne Tvete, Bjørn Lødemel and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to strengthen local democracy and property rights in environmental and land management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e112	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e115	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I have the honour to propose more predictability and less bureaucratic adoption. On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I also propose the introduction of a mortgage scheme for environmentally hazardous waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e122	The proposed representatives will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e134	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. After that article, a row of up to six lines is allowed. Then each of the opposition lots receives an entry of up to 10 minutes, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each with a subsequent row of up to four lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are distributed among the groups as follows: Work party eighteen posts, Progress party twelve posts, Right nine posts, Socialist left group three posts, Centre party three posts, Christian People's Party three posts and Left one post. If the government parties wish to merge two five-minute posts to provide parliamentary leaders with the main posts in 10 minutes, it will be available. After one of the five-minute submissions from each group, access to a row is granted. In such row blanks it opens for up to six lines. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e153	I have been looking forward to meeting a magnificence that starts a session that will be marked by work on major and important issues. It is my hope that the government parties and the opposition will meet in debates on the major line elections, and on fundamental issues. That's how we can give the voters clear alternatives. The debate on beliefs is an opportunity both to present their own policies and to identify the differences between the parties. When the voters re-elected the majority government in 2009 and gave us four new years, we were mandated to take on three major tasks. The first is to secure jobs and manage Norway safely through the financial crisis. It was a clear choice of work and order in the economy rather than uncertainty and economic experimentation. Norway now has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Our neighboring country has more than twice as high leave. With over 50 million people out of work in developed countries, unemployment has once again become a major social problem in our part of the world. The financial crisis is not over as long as unemployment breaks down. Norway has a better starting point than many other countries, but it is not obvious that unemployment in our country should be low. Unemployment in Norway is now lower than the average over the last 20 years. Employment is higher and unemployment is lower now with the aftermath of the financial crisis than in the period 2001–2005 without a financial crisis. Norway is a country with great potential. Our task is to make use of the possibilities. Last month, I had the pleasure of hosting a large international conference on job creation and growth organised by the International Monetary Fund and the International Labour Organisation in Norway. The Oslo meeting was a recognition of the Norwegian model, which has demonstrated its strongest and best characteristics during the financial crisis. Close cooperation with the social partners, active counter-cyclical policies, active labour market policies, active industrial policies and a highly tax-funded public sector are the pillars of our system of work for all. The fact that we have managed to keep order in the Norwegian economy has led to a strong purchasing power improvement for households. A family with two children in kindergarten who had a total income of NOK 700000 in 2005 now has NOK 85 000 more to walk with this year. In many other European countries, wages are cut across the board as part of the price of the financial crisis. The government will continue a policy that increases the purchasing power of employees and pensioners. We will pursue a policy of continued low interest rates. Work for everyone is about more than keeping unemployment down, it is also about creating a working life where there is room for more. An inclusive working life is important for the well-being of individuals and for the growth of the economy. That is why I am glad that sick leave is now falling sharply. From 1st semester of last year to 1st half of this year, sick leave has been reduced by nearly 10 pst. Increased attention, awareness of sick leave and increased use of classified sick leave have contributed to lower absenteeism. The government, together with the social organisations, will continue to work for a more inclusive working life. The government wants there to be full pay under sickness, and we want to create a working life where fewer people get sick. We also know that many of those who are disabled today have a desire to contribute. That's why we're going to create a more inclusive working life and build bridges back to work. The government will promote a separate case of disability pension for the Stortinget. From the turn of the year, the new pension scheme comes into force, one of the most important public sector reforms of the time. We'll make sure we're safe from the people's fears. The rule that the pension is curtailed when you have labour income next to it was completely removed from 1 January 2009 for them over 67 years. From next year we will go further and remove this abbreviation for all over 62 years in the private sector. These can then freely combine work and retirement. Pension reform will make working more profitable. More will work more, and more will combine work and retirement. This will increase value creation in the country. Over time, public finances will be strengthened by an estimated 3 pst. of the national product. Calculated to this day, this corresponds to approximately 60 billion. kr more per year for school, care and roads. Hardly any other reform has been more important to safeguard the Norwegian welfare society than the pension reform. The pension reform had not been possible without the involvement of responsible employee organisations. While other countries experience that attempts to renew welfare systems end in conflict, widespread strikes and conflict, we have created through dialogue and cooperation a pension system that ensures good pensions for workers while ensuring the well-being of the future. The pension reform is an expression of the strength of the Norwegian model. I'm glad that the government's relationship with the country's employees is marked by that we work with each other, not against each other. Low unemployment and an inclusive working life are our main means of success with inclusion. The Government will propose to increase the number of hours of Norwegian education and training. At the same time, we will introduce mandatory tests in Norwegian and social knowledge. A consistent and fair refugee and asylum policy makes the work of including those who have legal residence easier. The government will also increase next year the number of emigrations of people who do not have the right to stay in our country. The government, through ‘Cooperation for Work’, has had a broad dialogue with many on how to secure future jobs. It's been about how we can better facilitate the start of new businesses and how we can invest in knowledge and research. We want to step up efforts for more people to complete higher education. The government will carry out additional efforts against youth by strengthening the learning environment and making training more varied and relevant for the students. We're going to present our own big-time report on youth. We want to increase the number of places of study in higher education. The other major project of the government is to renew, strengthen and improve one of the world's best welfare societies. It is a choice that is about prioritising welfare services rather than tax cuts and building strong communities rather than leaving responsibility to individuals. This choice has allowed municipalities to increase the number of annual work in welfare production by 40,000 during the previous ageing period: teachers, nursery assistants and health professionals, in total almost as many as there are residents of Sandefjord. Hardly ever before, the number of employees in municipalities has increased more than in the last four-year period. In 2005, government parties promised to introduce full child-care coverage. We've fulfilled that. A year ago, we promised full health care coverage. That's what we're doing. By 2015, all those in need of it shall be provided with the care and care of the lucky day. The aim is to ensure that all older people have a worthy care, in line with the agreement here in the Great Government Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The government will therefore introduce a separate provision for a guarantee of dignity in the care of the elderly in the autumn. It will require municipalities to provide adequate housing, varied and adequate diet and normal daily rhythm. In cases where the guarantee of dignity is not followed up, a complaint may be made. The Government will facilitate access to justice. We will also continue to work on the cooperation reform. The aim is to increase patient treatment and improve healthcare provision through better cooperation at all levels of healthcare services. The interaction reform is about renewing and improving the welfare society. The interaction reform is the beginning of a gradual transformation of the Norwegian health system. It's about prevention and early efforts to provide an offer close to the patient better interaction between hospitals and municipalities; The development of community health services will reduce hospitalisation, and more people can be discharged from hospitals. Outpatients shall be offered local medical centres and nursing homes. People who are struggling with e.g. a growing drug problem or psychiatric disorder should be assisted early, rather than treatment only when the problem has become major, expensive and difficult to deal with. Instead of sending patients long distances by taxi or planes to get dialysis or cell poison, they should be able to get it to local medical centres when it's proper – or, as I had the pleasure of looking at a nursing home in Lørenskog this summer: an ambulatory x-ray team that brought the x-ray device to the municipal hospital, instead of the old ones having to make a tiring journey to the state hospital to get pictures. In order to follow up the Interaction Reform, the government will present several important documents to the Storting in the coming year: new national health and care plan new law on municipal health and care services new public health law Well-being costs. So we're going to have to spend the big money on the big problems. We get a lot left for what we contribute to the community. The government believes that Norway has a level of taxation that ensures value creation, redistribution and the need to finance the welfare level. We're open to looking at how the tax system can provide more value creation or more justice, but the overall level of taxation is fixed. A few years ago, there was a widespread show on the right-hand side of Norway and internationally that the Norwegian and Nordic models were totally unsuitable for meeting the age of globalisation. We were told that countries with large public sectors, high taxes, small income differences and strong trade unions were immature, udynamic and riskless in a world of increased competition. So you can be wrong. History has shown us that the Nordic countries have proved to be competitive through globalisation over the last decades and through the economic downturn of the last few years. Society that focuses on involving all, creating strong communities, has shown greater capacity for innovation and migration than societies characterized by differences and conflicts. Safer people dare more. When everyone's in, we get more together than when a lot of people are shutting down. When the investment bank Lehman Brothers went over the end of autumn 2008, it was not just an investment bank that went bankrupt. It was the naive belief in the excellence of market forces that went down. The leader of the largest opposition party in Stortinget, Siv Jensen, promised in the evening post before the elections last year that with the Progress Party in government there will be ‘market growth at all levels’, and she announced that there would be ‘total change’ in Norway. I am happy to be able to start this big session by fully agreeing with Siv Jensen: With the Advance Party in government, it would be a total change. Extensive tax cuts, irresponsible use of money, reduced government labour market efforts and weaker labour rights are fundamental violations of the social model we have developed in Norway. Equality policy is another area where we would see differences. One important reason Norway has had strong economic growth over many years is that more and more women have chosen to take up education and go out to work. It hasn't come of itself. This is due to decades of fight for kindergartens, school leisure schemes, maximum prices, gender equality agencies, parental leave and parental quotas. Not one of these great equality criteria has gone through without political conflict here in the United Kingdom. The disagreement on gender equality policy is still present today. The right-hand parties will abolish the father's quota in the parental leave. The government will extend it. It is also about renewing and improving the Norwegian welfare community. The third major task of the government is to take the lead in global action against climate change. Greenhouse gas emissions have stabilised in recent years. Since 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 5 pst. This is linked to the setback in the international economy, but extensive measures to reduce emissions have also had an impact. The main instrument for cutting Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions is CO2 taxes and climate allowances. Above 70 pst. Norwegian emissions are subject to fees or allowances. This makes it expensive to pollute and cost-effective to cut emissions. Climate allowances and CO2 taxes promote the development of environmentally friendly technologies. In addition, we ensure that it is the polluter and not the community that has to pay for the climate action. The government will step up the use of economic and other instruments to reduce emissions in Norway. The work of building a world-leading carbon capture technology centre in Mongstad is in full swing. This will be the foremost in its kind in the world, among others. because it is possible to test different types of gases and technologies on different types of waste gases. The technologies developed at Mongstad and tested there will be relevant for the purification of both gas and coal power plants. The centre will be expensive, but we need to be willing to invest a lot to develop technologies the world is completely dependent on if we are to succeed in bringing down greenhouse gas emissions. The appropriations for rail and public transport shall be stepped up further. The government follows up the climate agreement and proposes to introduce green certificates from 2012. It involves significant subsidies for the development of hydropower and wind power. The development of large quantities of renewable energy will not be possible without the deployment of the power grid in Norway. In addition to comprehensive climate action in Norway, the government is committed to financing climate action that really monies in other countries. Norway is a leading country in halting deforestation in the world. Reduced deforestation can provide the largest and fastest cuts in greenhouse gas emissions. This is now happening in the Amazon, where deforestation has been significantly reduced in recent years. All countries want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but there is less consensus on how to distribute the bill. The question of how to finance climate action is perhaps the most demanding issue in the international climate negotiations. Next week, in Addis Ababa, the Advisory Group set up by the UN Secretary-General for Climate Change will meet. The Group will not resolve all remaining issues of climate finance, but it will hopefully help to bring about a solution in the international climate negotiations. The work of the International Climate Panel has been thoroughly evaluated in the last year. Some minor defects and deficiencies have been identified, but none of the independent assessments raise doubts about the basic message of the climate panel: the planet is getting warmer. There are man-made climate change. In 2012, the Kyoto Agreement expires. It is urgent to reach agreement on a new international climate agreement with binding emission reductions. Three weeks ago, we signed the agreement on the sharing line with Russia in Murmansk – an agreement on a maritime borderline between Norway and Russia that creates clarity, predictability and stability for the exercise of authority, control and right of access to resources in this area, an agreement fully anchored in international law, an agreement that continues our good fisheries cooperation based on the sustainable management of one of the world's richest fisheries resources, and which contains detailed rules for the extraction of oil and gas resources located on both sides of the borderline, an agreement that opens up completely new perspectives in the cooperation between Norway and Russia. The government intends to submit the agreement to the Stortinget for approval before Christmas. This agreement offers new opportunities. It's our job to manage these possibilities in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e295	It's going to be line change. The first representative is the representative of Siv Jensen. Our new facility does not accept that the representative Jensen gets two lines in a row, but it accepts the president, so that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e300	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I must say that I find it incredibly pleasant that the Prime Minister dreams away from the brutal reality of the government, when he obviously looks and often thinks about both the Advancement Party and me. I think that is good, but he should read our party program a little more carefully, too, so maybe he got some good ideas for reforms for Norway. Because I listened carefully to what the Prime Minister said, and I think I caught up that he used the word ‘reform’ once. It was in connection with the pension reform, which is not really an advantage for pensioners, but primarily an advantage for the state fund. On the other hand, it would make sense for both the Treasury and the individual people about the prime minister and the government to start to have some ideas about reforming bureaucratic Norway — debureaucratic, deregulate — so that it was the users who got into focus, rather than systems, legislation, obstacles, problems. Nav might be the leading example. That is why I would like to challenge the Prime Minister for precisely that: does he have any idea of new reforms specifically linked to red tape in Norway? He began very freshly in the Stoltenberg I-government, but those thoughts he quickly put in the drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e309	Firstly, it is quite right that I sometimes think of Siv Jensen, and that should have pleased Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e314	Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e319	That's good. The second is that it should have pleased the representative Jensen that I chose this debate to stress that I agreed with the Progress Party, that if the Advance Party comes into government, there will be total change and market thinking at all levels. I stand for another policy. I believe in the Norwegian model, that we solve things together, and that the market cannot control everything, but it is an honest and honest matter that there are clear differences. Secondly, I mentioned ‘reform’ several times. I talked a lot about the interaction reform as one of the major and important projects that will make the Norwegian health system better. Thirdly, we are dedicated to red tape. One of the things we really do is we use information technology. We have now acquired these self-esteem in electronic form – I think many people are experiencing a clear improvement in bureaucracy – and we are also taking many other big and small steps to crack the bureaucratise Norway. It's part of the renewal project we're doing in cooperation with employees' organisations. That's why we're getting it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e328	I'm not sure if users see it that way, but it'll show time. But let me challenge the Prime Minister quite specifically in one area, which he also mentioned, namely infirmity and infirmity. To a large extent, it is ambitious to have a plan to achieve full health care coverage by 2015. It's an ambition the Progress Party shares, even though we should see the plan a little bit more ambitious. But what I noticed was that the Prime Minister only mentioned the guarantee of dignity as the only means of achieving this. Well, that can't be right. It means a regulation that may give people access to justice, but that does not in itself lead to an expansion of the number of hospitals, which unfortunately now goes down. How has the Government planned to achieve the goal of full hospital coverage, so that we can end the need for elderly people in Norway – years ahead of us – to stand and wait in an unworthy queue? It is possible to solve this, especially if the government denies its resistance to private people and is a little more concerned with thinking about flexibility and getting others into competition to provide the elderly with a decent care and care. That's what it's all about, not who gives them the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e335	I believe that it has a role to play in developing Norwegian care for the elderly, but it is essential that public money comes, whether it is private or public. We provided a lot of extra public money for private and public kindergartens, and that's why it became full child care coverage. Now we're going to provide more public money for the care of the elderly, and then there's going to be full hospital coverage. But full hospital coverage is about at least three things. It's about home services. If we get more home care, more home care, less need to get to the institution. So it's about building out nursing homes, and then it's about building out nursing homes. That's the three things that we do at the same time, and that makes it possible for us to make an offer, so that everyone who needs it gets lucky care and supervision. I just have to briefly take one thing on the previous question, namely that pension reform was just a savings reform. It's completely wrong. I think everyone is going to appreciate freely being able to combine retirement and work, and it gets everyone in the private sector from next year. In the public sector, we failed to negotiate such an agreement, but there is thus a significant improvement in the ability to combine pensions and work for very many employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e344	It states that the government will ‘defend, renew and improve’ the welfare state. That's a good statement, and I think that's something that brings together the entire Norwegian big thing. It is not the desire to improve the welfare society and the welfare state that is what divides, but the way we intend to do it, and how we ensure it. In one area, there has been a failure in the development of well-being in the red-green area. Those who are well-being in voluntary and private organisations, such as kindergartens, child protection, rehabilitation — yes, in almost all areas — have experienced the last five years as a continuous decline and a lack of respect for the services they provide. The story is that children's protection is being sent around, that rehabilitation offers are being abandoned. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is he going to change that government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e352	The reality description of the question is incorrect. It is not that we are building up private offers. On the contrary, I believe that they have an important role to play. We're not against private people. Privates have always played a major role in the Norwegian welfare community. What we're against, is the market idea, that the market should control the distribution of these goods. It is the market that cannot control well-being, but the Church’s City Mission, the Salvation Army, the Sanitation Association and many others have contributed and contributed very positively to the development of the Norwegian welfare society. It became full child care because this government provided many extra billions for public kindergartens and also for many private kindergartens. So the premise for the question is not right. We cannot leave the distribution of welfare to the market, but private actors have played and will play an important role in the development of the Norwegian welfare society even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e359	No one is suggesting that the distribution of well-being should be left to the private sector or to the market, but there are questions about whether private individuals should have a role, whether volunteers should have a role in developing the welfare community, so that we use all the good talents that exist in our society. It's actually wrong what the Prime Minister says. 30 care stations in the project of the Salvation Army have closed the door of hope. The list is here – I have quite a lot of the consequences of what has happened. In addition, we now know that the government has created a great deal of uncertainty about the future of private kindergartens by proposing changes to their funding, which means that many of them are at risk of not getting loans in the future, and they have not abandoned the proposal. You've only exposed it. My question again to the Prime Minister: Does he recognise that both private and voluntary contribute to raising well-being, and will he give them better conditions within the tax-funded welfare system in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e368	Yes, I acknowledge that private and volunteers contribute to the development of the Norwegian welfare community. They've been doing that for many, many decades. Even when the Labour Party had a pure majority on the Stortinget, they played a role in the development of the Norwegian welfare society. What I'm opposed to is the market thinking. What I am opposed to is the extensive use of tenders, and so I am dependent on the fact that the municipalities themselves decide. This means that when we have examples of choosing one over another and perhaps decomposing one, it is the municipality that uses its municipal autonomy, its local self-government, to implement the policies they want locally. If you want to have as many tenders as you want, some people have to lose the tenders, and then there will be people who have to close or reduce their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e375	It was interesting to hear that the government is against the use of the market in relation to the non-profit sector, for what is the problem for the non-profit sector is that the government is running the market principles and the tendering principles so hard that institutional institutions have to close down. Then I'm not talking about the commercial institutions. I'm talking about the Salvation Army, which has had to lay down four child protection institutions, three drug institutions and two hospitals. These are facts that the Prime Minister cannot escape. HSH – the main organisation of trade and services in the past – says that non-profit institutions in the health and social sector may be gone in five to ten years if this policy continues. I don't think the Prime Minister wants this. I do not think the Prime Minister wants these kinds of results or these kinds of policies. I would therefore like to challenge him if it is not time to do as Mr Vegar Solhjell, my honourable Member of Parliament, has proposed: turn around the policy and secure the ideal institutions. Today, the Christian People's Party will invite the whole Stortinget to an agreement on this, for we cannot allow the cow to die while the grass grows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e382	I believe that we have found a proper division of labour between the state and the municipality in terms of responsibilities in the field of welfare production. We provide funding. We provide laws, regulations, minimum standards and minimum standards, and then it is largely up to the municipalities themselves to decide how they choose to organise the offer. Someone chooses to do everything in the municipal direction, someone chooses a combination of municipal government and maybe volunteers like the Sanity Association and the Salvation Army, and someone chooses a slightly higher degree of outsourcing. I believe that the municipalities still have to decide. It certainly means that some municipalities make decisions I might disagree with. But I believe that we have municipal autonomy, we have municipal autonomy, and then the municipalities themselves have to assess how they best organise this locally, given that they meet the requirements we make centrally for quality and offering. In terms of volunteering, we've strengthened it. It was this government that made sure that we now get over 1 billion. extra in VAT compensation to the voluntary sector in Norway, and there are far more places in both public and private welfare production now than in 2005. So it's going to be more. But everyone can't drive just like before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e389	It hasn't exactly been a dream summer for the government. Much of the controversy within has led to more attention being paid to each other than to developing new, great visions, and the speech of the throne is an example of that. It's very little new, it's very little concrete. [[sounding from the President's office]] What I want to wonder about is whether the Prime Minister has read Per Kleppes articles in Today's Business that were very good and inspiring to us who are busy renewing the public sector, thinking new thoughts and being part of and developing new visions. It seems that the government is concerned about saying the big old words like ‘tax’ or ‘welfare’ or ‘use the big money on the big things’ or expressing other such tumultuous words without really thinking about how to develop the welfare state and use different actors to get it. Has the Prime Minister read Kleppes articles?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e396	The answer is yes. I have read Per Kleppes articles. I have great pleasure in reading his articles, and I have discussed many questions with him over the years. So to the question of vision. The government has many visions, and I explained to three of the most important ones in my article. Ensuring Europe's lowest unemployment, securing the country perhaps the world's highest employment is a great vision. Those countries that don't manage to realize that vision know how painful and difficult it is. Renewing and improving one of the world's best welfare societies is a great vision, and we're implementing it now. Retirement reform — perhaps the largest renewal project ever implemented. The interaction reform – a new, big change. It will take time and is a direction, but we will gradually start a conversion from 2012. We're going through the disability pension system just to see if it's possible to make it easier to combine work and social security, and to make it easier to get into the labour market for the disabled. The conversion of the defence is slow, but safe – a massive modernisation of the defence is taking place. It's not a small one, it's a big modernisation project. And we have vastly increased use of information technology in the public sector. So we're renewing and improving the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e409	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e412	The last year has been marked by root, chaos and disagreement within the red-green government. Maybe that's why we got an unusually short throne speech on Saturday. It was unusually short, and it had very little to do – make ambitions. At least this may indicate that the government is spending time managing it — when they do not spend time arguing between themselves. Of course, there are differences between the Labour Party and the Progress Party, in which the Prime Minister is quite right. In a progressive party society, individuals will have greater space. When the Prime Minister says that he is opposed to market thinking, it means being opposed to the right of citizens to free choice over their own lives. Where the Prime Minister has the most faith in himself, the Advance Party and I have the most faith in the individual and their right to make wise choices about their own lives. Therefore, I find it strange that the government and the Prime Minister do not present any reforms. There are no visions and no visions of where they are going with the majority that they, after all, have in this great period. The need for reform is great, and let me mention some areas in particular. Elder care: This is where development goes wrong. Of course, the Prime Minister is quite right that this is about money, this is about local economy, because with today's model and today's system, the municipalities are responsible for financing the care of the elderly. But then they have to get that space of action, and they don't. Then I can give the Prime Minister two tips, if he has time to correct the state budget until tomorrow: one thing he should do was do something about the investment grant and like to double it – maybe triple it too – to increase the rate of expansion in the municipality of Norway. The other thing he has to do is to designate means of operation. It's the only and safest way to bring up the production of nursing homes, with the existing system. But in reality, the system is obsolete. The organisation of care for the elderly has been a major obstacle — with many different governments in Norway for many, many years. Nevertheless, it is the theme that is highest on the agenda every time we have choices. It tells me that this is an area over-mature for reform, but then you have to dry to think new thoughts, dry to look at a change of funding and dry to put the individual's right to make choices in the centre. Another area in need of reform is the justice sector. I noticed that throughout his speech, the Prime Minister did not mention this sector with a single word, and despite the fact that we are now receiving police district riots after police districts about de-employment, about vacant positions. Many of the newly educated high school police students do not get a job, and this has recently been confirmed by the police director. What, then, does it help to have an ambition in the throne to continue the admission to the Police College if they do have an uncertainty about what job is going on for the future? Norway needs more policemen, not fewer. It's about money, but it's also about thinking differently with regard to the whole police sector. It's primarily about giving the individual in this society security back. That should have taken the prime minister time to say something about it. A third area: bureaucracy and administration. Stoltenberg's first government had a fresh kick-off in this area — perhaps a bit inspired by then Prime Minister Tony Blair. But it was quickly put in the drawer after pressure from LO – unfortunately. After that, Jens Stoltenberg or the Workers' Party have not in any way had any ambitions to debureaucratise Norway with a view to putting users, citizens' rights in focus. The best example we have on it is Nav. Nav is the subject of a systematic criticism every single day from tens of thousands of people who do not experience being taken seriously when they enter the door. They experience a run-up to bureaucracy, to legal obstacles – just on challenges rather than getting their cases solved, based on their starting point, and on the problems they face in everyday life. That should worry the Prime Minister. Therefore, there should be a much greater focus on getting the public sector reformed with a view to making it more public friendly than it is. Then it would be an advantage if the government soon managed to get a slightly more relaxed relationship with the private sector – a private sector that is always able to show that it can think again. They can be innovative, and they can do more for less. There should be sweet music in the ears of this government, which is busy with tight budgets and coming back to the rule of action. Then you should also be concerned about getting the most out of each penny you spend on behalf of the taxpayers. Then you should let others go. Then you should be happy in competition. This should ensure that the needs of the population are put at the centre — and allow different problem-less people to compete for their favor. In all areas where this has been done, it has produced good results. Why not also release this in terms of health, care and education, which are the three areas where you have a manic relationship with this in the red-green government. In the languages of the throne there are some moments that I want to spend some time on. One is that the government decides that they will open up new exploration sites in the Barents Sea and/or in Lofoten. It's a little unclear where it comes from, but it's at least a sign that SV is losing enough of a fight, which I'm very pleased with. So to the asylum policy: the government is warning exciting things. They warn, among other things: that they will now pursue an asylum policy in the future which is more consistent with the practice of ‘comparable countries’. I hope the comparable country is Denmark, because there we have seen very, very good results. I hope that the comparable country is not Sweden, which is one of the few countries in Europe that have not yet taken a real debate on the development of the asylum field in their own country. But I would like to get an answer to that from representatives of the government parties during this debate: what is the meaning of 'comparable country' when it is said that an asylum policy should be pursued in line with these countries? Today, we were able to wake up to the news that many of our soldiers feel that they are being robbed, especially in connection with the foreign exposure in Afghanistan. They don't have enough rest. Of course, it's a problem for the individual soldier, but it tells us that the development of Norwegian defence is going in the wrong direction. The way in which we have chosen to formulate this for many years now has been to modernise the Norwegian defence system. The truth is that that's not what you're doing anymore. Now there is a planned reduction in the border of the irresponsible, and I believe that this will should discuss much more in-depth in the time to come. We have a defence that needs to be operational both at home and outside, but does not find the necessary connection between the expressed ambitions and the budgetary frameworks allocated to them. It's not a situation that can go on, and it should worry the government more than it does. Then it's just to note that the government's big project ever since the famous lunar landing speech, namely climate policy – yes, there are de facto all ambitions abandoned. I heard what the Prime Minister said, but when you read the throne, it's very difficult to see the new ambitions, the clear objectives, the concrete instruments that the government intends to use, and maybe I can say so: maybe it's just as good. In last year's debate, exactly one year ago, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to ask the government to establish a system of a welfare or Nav ombudsman. The government asked for that proposal to be converted into a transmission proposal, because there was obviously ambition to do something about it. One year has passed without anything happening. That's why the Progress Party takes up that proposal again this year because we think it's a little bit deterrent on the part of the government parties when they ask us to turn it into a transmission proposal, makes the impression that they're going to do something about it, and so it's in the drawer side. We also promote a number of other proposals, both in the field of care for the elderly, where we believe that the Storting should be notified, or a plan of progress, so that we can see how the government intends to achieve the goal of full health care coverage. It can no longer be just an slogan, it must also be seen through instruments and realities. It must not be a well-kept secret, especially for the sake of all older people in the country who need or will need care in the near future. I take this up with me all the proposals of the Advance Party that will be distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e444	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e449	I noticed that the representative Jensen used his entire speech to talk about the government's policy. Now she's going to have a chance to say a little bit about the Progress Party's policy. One of the success factors behind the Norwegian model is the tripartite cooperation that we have in our working life, between countries, trade unions and employers. Through cooperation with a responsible trade union movement, we in Norway have been able to find a new, sustainable pension system. We have been able to find reliable measures to meet the financial crisis, and we have also achieved moderate wage settlements that take into account the competitive industry. The Progress Party is opposed to country-wide tariff agreements and has programmed that central agreements concluded by ‘monopoly-like organisations’ hinder a free labour market. In addition, we know that the party is in favour of weakening the Working Environment Act, and consistently opposes the government's action against social dumping. Why is the Progress Party going to undermine the organised working life that has ensured us high employment, high predictability and high productivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e457	That's wrong. The Progress Party will not undermine the organized working life, but we want greater flexibility, and unlike the Workers' Party, which listens primarily to the LO, the Progress Party will also listen to the other organisations, who, on a case-by-case basis and in areas by area, feel neglected. They do not feel that they reach the government’s table with their positions and views, which often differ from those of LO. In fact, I believe it is important to listen also to the employees that are organised, as well as to listen to the workers who have chosen not to be organized, and there are some of them as well. The point is that we can finely care for the pillars of this by having a tripartite collaboration – the Progress Party has not intended to rock – but we also intend to lend ear to more than LO, without allowing them to become central government members of the Progress Party for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e462	In the previous row, the representative asked Jensen to read from the programme of the Progress Party, and I will therefore meet her wish. I refer you from the principal programme: «Work, pay and employment contracts work best if they are achieved by agreement between the employees and employers of each enterprise. Such a system will help to better adapt enterprises to downtimes. It will also be in the interest of employees to contribute to job security in Norway through temporary changes in pay and working conditions. Through corporate settlement, wages and salaries will be more adapted to the performance of enterprises.» My question to the representative Jensen is then: How can the Progress Party claim to be the party of the people most, while they have the opinion that the individual employee himself should take the bill if a company goes bad, no matter why?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e472	Firstly, I am pleased that Helga Pedersen is quoting from the Progress Party program, because it is very well written. It is essentially because it is more important for the workers in this country that their jobs remain rather than that they go under. I record that several of the trade unions also call for a departure from only the central wage-settings and take more into account the situation in the actual workplace. This does not mean that we should not have the protection that is in today's legislation in relation to unemployment benefits and other things, as the Progress Party fully supports. But it has to be better that people have a job to do than that they don't have a job to do, and you might have to be more concerned about, in bad times, in companies that may be in a very difficult time, finding solutions with the employees rather than ignoring the problem and hoping that it will go over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e477	All of them first: A possible FrP party for opening oil in Lofoten I want to cancel, and I probably wouldn't start planning the spring play either, I was Siv Jensen. Much can improve in Norway. However, it is far from believing that much can be improved to believe that Norway should do most differently, as the Progress Party believes in its programmes. The world is in a financial crisis, but Norway is doing well. The UN believes Norway is the world's best country to live in, we're the second best in equality, and we have much lower unemployment than other comparable countries. The Norwegian model of strong Community solutions, redistribution, equality and high level of organisation is gaining recognition from an increasing number of countries. But while the world wants us to learn, the FrPs prefer to get out of the country and back in time. They want to go to the Baltic, to the Republicans of the United States and to thatcher's England. Why did this suck to be like the countries that score the worst in living conditions, and where the class divisions are deciduously largest?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e486	I fully agree that very much is very good in Norway, but I think we should nevertheless allow ourselves to look a little behind the façade figures that were presented, especially in the case of unemployment. It may appear that unemployment in Norway is low, but the reality is that there are a significant number of people in this country in pre-age employment who are not recorded in unemployment statistics but who want to get to work. They are recorded in other statistics, they are registered using other instruments. An example of this is many people with disabilities who want to get to work, for example. Because it can be done if you make your everyday life something. I have not recorded that the government has been particularly concerned about doing anything about it, despite the fact that there are thousands of people, well educated, who like to work, would like to be ordinary taxpayers, but who are not defined as unemployed on the fine, beautiful statistics that the red-green government likes to sell abroad, but that is not quite correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e491	In the old days, it was socialized, single mothers and northerners who, in addition to farmers and people in the Third World, were to take the bill for the massive tax reliefs of the Advance Party. As the Progress Party has grown, the accountants have become fewer, and now there are only farmers and residents in the Third World again. The last is obviously unsolvable, the first is unintelligible and irresponsible. Today, millions and their entire future are investing in food production and agriculture in Norway. The policy of the Progress Party will mean ruin for thousands of families and individuals throughout the country. What have they done to deserve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e496	With regard to the financing of the Progress Party's very good proposals on the State budget, I would like to remind the representative Mr. Borten Moe that, unlike almost all other countries, Norway is running with huge profits which it is entirely possible to invest in our own country rather than not doing so. So for agricultural policy: when the Progress Party calls for a conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy, it is not primarily to finance care for the elderly or road construction. It is to free the country's food producers from an extensive bureaucracy, a comprehensive and demanding piece of legislation that does not exactly create the flexibility and dynamics and adaptability that Norwegian food producers could have had if the legislation was more liberal. This does not apply only to Norway. There are many other countries that are pursuing a special funding policy in this area, while talking nice about doing something about poverty in the Third World. Then you could start removing the customs barriers and including the poor countries in world trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e503	I listened carefully to the representative, Siv Jensen, when she talked about the individual's freedom and threatened the individual. One of the most fundamental freedoms is the right to believe and to express faith. Today's government has repeatedly chosen to ignore all the positive Christian and religious organizations that have to contribute to society – care for their fellow human beings, etc. One has seen the freedom of trust threatened through e.g. the desire to govern the church's liturgy in connection with marriage law, one sees it in voluntary organisations, one sees it in the Working Environment Act, etc. The party of progress has repeatedly called for the narrowing of its rights to express its faith, all from hijab to glorious religious cross or symbol. My question to Siv Jensen is: Does Siv Jensen and the Progress Party contribute to securing religion's place in public space and the individual's right and freedom to express and exercise faith?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e510	I was a little stunned when the Christian People's Party now chooses to take a line on the Advancement Party, because I thought it might mean that they are moving away from non-socialist cooperation. But when I heard the tone of the question, it is worth noting that many of the issues that the Christian People's Party is now addressing in the lineage, they find greater coverage in cooperation with the Advance Party than with any other party in the Stortinget. It should guarantee good cooperation in the future. So to this with hijab: I cannot with my best will understand why wearing hijab is primarily about expressing faith. As I see it, hijab is primarily one of the most women-repressive instruments available. No one shall tell me that most women who today wear hijab, especially in countries far away from ourselves, make it voluntary, make it primarily an expression of faith. They do it for completely different reasons, they do it because they live in communities that cultivate suppressing women. I believe that is something we must fight with beaks and claws.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e517	Last year, when we had a speech debate, it was just before the Copenhagen Summit. Many of us included in the evening prayer that things would go well. It did not, and the Advance Party applauded it in this house. I asked the representative Jensen, not once, but actually twice, during the debate last year. I didn't think I got any answer, so I try again: are there man-made climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e522	It is absolutely right that Copenhagen was on the agenda last year. It was also updated because the Progress Party itself made a proposal to get a status report from the government in Stortinget. It was turned into a transmission proposal, and it actually brought forward, so that the Storting was informed about the positions. But what we've seen in retrospect is that it didn't come forward. The government itself writes in the throne that it has no faith at all in the next summit, and the question is, When can we calculate a summit that actually produces results? What that tells me is that it's about a lot more. In Norway, however, this is expressed primarily by flakes, words and expressions and much less by action. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has too far recognised the existence of climate change. So the question is, are we people who stand for them alone, or can it also happen that nature goes its way and contributes to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e535	Norway is for the most part a good country to live in. That's when the red-greens took over in 2005, and it's probably also going to be when the red-greens go off in 2013. But Norway does not remain a good country to live in if we do not work for it. We have to tackle the biggest challenges and the most important ones. For the recognition that must be above all of us, we have ten years before the state's revenue becomes less than the government's expenditure, if we don't take action to increase revenue now. It will be a whole new reality for a country that has been a member of an exclusive club of land for decades blessed with large natural resources, which has given us large, stable profits in the budgets. Countries that have lived with large deficits on state budgets over time experience today having to make heavy and difficult adjustments. Massive cuts in welfare goods, mass unemployment and social unrest characterize many of those countries. Then we'll remember that the oil fund won't be an eternal protection against having to change. The oil fund exposes the problems, but it does not solve the future problems for Norway. I think that every generation of politicians in the future will be measured by the ability they have had to take the challenges of the future seriously, not just offer new things every year and in each election campaign, but how they can prepare the country for the challenges ahead. If we do not now address the changes required, and take this challenge seriously, our generation will be the first to leave the country to our descendants in a worse constitution than we have received from those who were before us. Right-wing ambition is to create a society with opportunities for all, because we know that the creative power of individuals, the ability to rise through work, creativity and effort, is the most important asset this country has, and that it is the way forward if we are to make sure that we meet transformations and changes in our society. But it's also important that it's not just about those who are strong and can use a larger room of opportunity themselves, it's also about helping everyone to use their talents. I was a few days ago at a conference where Thorbjørn Jagland spoke. He concluded his speech by saying that giving people opportunities today is also about giving people tailors, giving them the measures that allow them to make use of their opportunities. It was a speech to disabled people, but it is equally important for all groups in our society that it is not only the general but also the targeted actions that contribute to creating the society that provides opportunities for everyone. It's easy to talk about the challenges ahead, but it's action that's necessary to solve them. Then it's important to stress that we have the opportunity to show action over the next ten years. This is how we have a fantastic opportunity to focus on how to get growth-promoting investment in education, research and infrastructure, and tax cuts, while at the same time providing a welfare society that allows each to make use of its opportunities. The world around us is going faster every day. Then there will be little over a Norwegian political debate that is often marked by the satisfaction of having used one penny more than another. We have to be able to raise our eyes more, and we have to change the political course. For the right, it's important that we get more knowledge in school. We cannot have lower ambitions for our children than they have for themselves, and young children have great ambitions. They know a lot if we help them on the way – with better teachers, strengthened basics, focus on results from the first day of school and up. Better knowledge and more research are needed if we are to strengthen Norway’s competitiveness. And then we have to focus on creating more, not focusing on taxing more. We must invest in the welfare of the future through value creation and growth. Small and medium-sized enterprises need less taxes and more to go with in order to create jobs that help make society sustainable in the future. And people need to get a new chance to get back to work, so that they can do their own thing – participate and contribute to society and give themselves the self-respect it is. Many people get bigger problems than they would have needed in a society that has as many people as could work a little bit, but that's outside. Then we won't get past the fact that we have to improve the public sector. Norway is the world's financial champion, but we're not the world's best in results in many of the areas where we spend a lot of money. This concerns both the health sector and the school sector. So the answer to the challenges is no longer wasted on taxpayers' money, but to create new solutions that make us get better results for the money we spend, and give more choices, so that users get more power, and so that you can manage to make the tailor-meal that is necessary. There's someone who's trying to say that there's too much talk about conversion and change when the Right is talking about politics. Sometimes we do that, we talk about pragmatic solutions, how we can create greater space. For me, it's a cross of thought that a competition for cleaning and canteen operations in hospitals can release 3 billion. kr. This could mean that 150 000 more patients in Norway can be treated. It may be a little boring to listen to that, but it's actually absolutely necessary for a politician. If not many patients miss opportunities. Or public procurement can be done in smarter ways and maybe save us 20 billion. kr per year. That is why we need to look at migration and change and spend taxpayers' money better. But we also need to let go of all good forces, because in many areas it will not last if only the public sector is to solve our challenges in the future. Cooperation with non-profit and private individuals to improve the quality of services, greater diversity and greater freedom of choice contributes to a better society. There are private actors who have contributed to providing full childcare and good kindergartens. Therefore, unlike the government, the Right will cooperate with private people to improve health care coverage, provide faster health care and faster road and rail construction. So we have to change the course if we're going to solve the challenges we're facing. If we don't shift responsibility and problems to others and to the next generations. The well-being of the future also requires a solid economic foundation to rest on. That is the starting point for the Right-Handling and always going to conduct a responsible economic policy. It is also reflected in the fact that in the budgets we give priority to infrastructure, school, research and development. Taking rest cuts in these areas has its price in the long term. There will be lower value creation and less well-being. We will conduct the opposite kind of policy, a policy to ensure sustainable well-being through increased growth, not just through tax increases. We do that because economic growth is a much more solid foundation to create the guarantee of well-being than to increase taxes. Trying to ensure lasting well-being through increased taxes is like building a castle on sand ground near the tide: When the tide comes, the castle disappears. For five years we've heard a lot of boasts about how much money the government spends on different purposes, as if social commitment or welfare care can be measured in money use or in large words. I will now, after five years, challenge the government to talk about what they have achieved with their historically high use of money, what they have achieved in health, care for the elderly, care for the elderly, combating poverty and protecting children. Dear Prime Minister, this is actually the responsibility of the state, not of the municipalities! In the new line change, it seemed as if the municipalities had made an offer. No, it is the state, under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership as Prime Minister, who has made these offers. And we want to look at the fasit of what has happened. The health queues have increased, which is now 248 000. The increase is 53,000. The wait has been sessioned. There are over 4,000 drug addicts waiting for treatment. There's an increase of 350 in the last two years. So the list is longer in this area. Are there these results that make the government talk about a social model that you warn against making the slightest little change? I think a new course is needed to achieve better results for the money we spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e571	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e574	The Norwegian model has helped us to live in a society with small differences and low unemployment, and it has ensured good economic growth. The right has recently tried to present itself as a welfare party, and has also tried to create the representation that the government's political color does not mean anything about the future of the Norwegian model. Therefore, it may be appropriate to recall that the Norwegian model is based on three pillars — a level of taxation that can finance the welfare systems we have in Norway, a strong public sector and good tripartite cooperation in the labour market. We see that the Right Repeatedly goes into attack on all of these three pillars. They will have huge tax cuts, despite the fact that Solberg's representative is now pointing to the challenges of financing the future's well-being in his own intervention. The removal of property taxes and inheritance taxes only corresponds to the operation of 18 000 health homes. So my question is, how can Erna Solberg claim that the Norwegian model will pass anyway, when her own party systematically attacks the entire model?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e581	It is striking that the Workers' Party never talks about the main foundation of the Norwegian model is that we create economic growth. That's what gives us the basis for whether or not we can fund. When we say we should remove some tax forms, it's because it will contribute to greater economic growth. Today, the Labour Party's parliamentary leader has an article where she tells how dangerous everything is in Sweden, and that the Right will really do exactly the same. In the last four quarters, Sweden has had higher economic growth than Norway. In the second quarter of this year, they have a growth of 4.5 pst., highest in Europe. We have a growth of 0.9 pst. The difference, 3.6 pst. - Yes, you know what? – over a short period, means twice the number of sick home places the government has as its objective until 2005. The type of economic growth, which can be achieved through a good tax policy and contribute to more jobs, ensures better well-being than the status quo of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e588	There is reason to recall some fundamental differences between the developments we have had in Norway under the red-green government and in Sweden under the government of the Moderates. In Sweden, youth unemployment is 25 pst. The general unemployment rate is 8 pst. In Norway it is 3 pst. Those 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr that the civil government in Sweden Only within the school community has 3,000 teachers disappeared in less than a year. So my next question to Erna Solberg is: Can the Right show me the country that has carried out huge tax cuts, that have less differences between people, more well-being and higher productivity than what we have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e593	I'm sorry to say that, but I think it's a little daunting political debate if we in Norway don't recognise that the majority of the differences between Norway and many other countries through the financial crisis are about oil revenues and about the resource we have attached to it. It is not about the policy pursued in Norway – a policy that we have generally agreed to implement. But then back to the Swedish situation. Because when they have 4.5 pst. growth and we have 0.9 pst. growth, I'm sure you'll see other numbers when it comes to teachers at school in Sweden, other numbers when it comes to welfare. Because what happens when you have 4.5 pst. growth in an economy is, in fact, an increase in the tax revenue of municipalities. The potential for development of well-being is growing. So our starting point is something else. We provide better economic growth. This will give us room to develop our welfare in the future. Perhaps in a year’s time, the Workers’ Party may find the arguments when pointing to Sweden to be a little bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e600	The representative Erna Solberg has had a great deal of success lately, I would say, by putting the rhetoric firmly in the center and stressing a political rhetoric that we are all agreed on the big projects and how we are going to create for the time being after the oil – the welfare party Right – and in the article here now that we have to spend the money as much as possible. I'm in agreement with all of that. So I think maybe what welfare policy we're going to conduct is the debate we can actually conduct in Norway. A few years ago, representatives Røe Isaksen and Astrup wrote in a book that the vast majority of those who received welfare services in Norway today do not need it. We are all encouraged to ‘live a life of irresponsibleness because the community is to take care of all our desires and needs’. And the representative of Astrup is holding out in DN in 2009: ‘For us, the welfare state’s objective is not to do more and more; the result will be more and fewer clients on their own feet.’ Is the representative of Solberg summed up in such a view on the functioning of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e614	I agree with a view that says that the most important thing in a society is that as few as possible need public help to cope with their lives. The fact that as many people as possible are on their own, that as many people as possible are in a safe job, and that they have the opportunity to develop, is, of course, the wish that we should all have. And that's what I'm reading from that, among other things. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen says. I want more disabled people to return to work and regardless of the disability benefit, and that they need a minimal offer of assistance for the organisation to be there. I thought something we agreed would be the goal, was that the welfare state should be the most for those who need it the most, but first and foremost be a trampoline and not a web that clings around you – a trampoline that makes you come back to work, and can be independent. The advantage of that is that then we have more room to help those who are definitely always going to need the help most, those who don't have an opportunity to come back to work, because they're not functioning enough, because they're so sick that they need more care. We have many ambitions to develop care in our society for those groups that need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e619	I think it was a very special reading of the sentences that the great majority of those who receive welfare services in Norway today do not need it, and we are all encouraged to ‘a life of irresponsibleness’. Kindergartens, schools, school-time arrangements, health and care for the elderly are welfare services. Does the representative of Solberg think that we should have fewer who use kindergartens, secondary schools and all the other offers here? I don't really think she does. But there's probably a deep gap between the desire to build up the welfare state that many on the right have, and the new rhetoric of the Right. So I repeat my question, is it so that she agrees that the great majority does not need the welfare services, and that we live a life of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e624	Then I'm going to clear up a manifest misunderstanding with the representative, Bård Vegar Solhjell. I think we define the welfare state a little bit differently. I see education primarily as a social investment in people being given opportunities in the future. I see it as giving good knowledge and competence as an important investment our society is making to promise us in the future. You could call it the welfare state, we call it part of the welfare community. But we're just busy with a good school. That's why we have ambitions that more people will complete the school, that more people will learn to read and write. It's a shame we don't do enough for the adults who have left school without learning to read and write, so they fall outside. That's why we're concerned when we say opportunities for everyone, that the society we're going to create should equip individual individuals to become as independent as possible by giving them the skills, knowledge and ability to handle themselves, the ability to pay their bills next month. So we might use the words a little bit differently. But if I'm going to use e.g. Audun Lysbakken's old thoughts as a guide to what SV thinks today, we get a funny debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e630	I want to thank Erna Solberg for what I saw in many ways as a decent post in a good right-wing tradition. It was a straightforward description of reality both when it came to Norway being a good country to live in, and not least that income is less than expenditure in the near future. The solutions, according to the Right, lie in the mere public use of money, careful change and conversion in line with conservative ideology. The goal is to leave a better society to the next generation and to let go of good force. So far all good. But then the big question is, Where does the Progress Party get into this picture? It's a party that's stood out of all major conciliation. It is a lot that combines Norway's record of increased expenditure with reduced tax revenue. They represent a fundamental breach with much of the common policy Solberg talks about, and thus also with Højre's own policy. What's fasitating? Can Erna Solberg guarantee that the broad comparisons are on track if the polls were to go in and the Right and the Advance Party were to rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e637	With regard to the settlements that have been signed by the Right, I would be allowed to say, as a proposition, that perhaps the Prime Minister should thank the opposition and not only the trade movement for some of the similarities, since we have all signed them. So it's like when the Right signs a settlement, we keep the deal. We're going to do that no matter who we cooperate with in the future, or what government we have. It's about the climate deal, where we're really excited now waiting for the follow-up. It's a little special that it's been almost three years since we signed the climate agreement, and that it's going to take another year before we're going to have the follow-up to the climate agreement through climate change. Something tells me that the government could also put in extra drive to implement and make the suggestions that are needed so that we can reach some of the comparisons in the future. Yes, the Progress Party and the Right have different policies in some areas, and then we agree on a social direction in some other areas, including: the question of using all the good forces in our society and ensuring that people can get dignity through freedom of choice, which I believe is quite serious and important in our society today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e646	I have understood it so that the representative Borten Moe has asked for another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e649	I got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e654	Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e657	It's just a clarification, because I feel that what's being said now is quite important. The Progress Party has a completely different approach to the Action Rule. Siv Jensen said from the pulpit here a little while ago that the pension reform was about savings for the treasury, not that we were going to have a predictable and sustainable pension system for the future. And we all know the climate policy of the Progress Party. What Erna Solberg is currently doing in practice is to guarantee against the implementation of large parts of the policy of the Progress Party. I think that's good, but I think you could be even more specific, so we know what we're dealing with. So it's now just so that the Right Leader now guarantees against large parts of the Advance Party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e662	That's how we're going to stand for our policies. We have some absolutes – we've said that before. Among other things, the Right always conducts an economically responsible policy, because we know that in our society, where we want people to have the most independence and independence possible, having good framework conditions for economic policy is one of the most important things we do. It's a premise that I assume that anyone who wants to cooperate with the Right is also involved in their thoughts on how to implement policies. Then I want to say that I also notice with interest that the government is always clear and clear in its policy. In the census, there was an invitation to the opposition to be involved in clearing up an important center party, namely the stock targets for wolves and yews and other wild animals. I know that there's perhaps the government's biggest dot. Then it might be good to talk to us in those areas. I record that it would not be much wolf again if the policy of the Center Party's 2009 election campaign had been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e669	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e672	Let me start with a personal remark: getting responsibility in government and big business is a democratic privilege. With it comes a joy to have something done, but also days of countermeasures. The last thing we have to live with, the first is actually something to live for. The throne tells what the government wants. This debate is more than any other called the opposition debate. It gives the opposition the opportunity to judge what the government will do. What I want to comment on first is what's about to get stuck after the red-green government – two experiences related to its political project – and then I will use most of my post to talk about what the Christian People's Party has for visions ahead. The red-green Soria Moria project has in several ways become just that name tillsa, a utopia that gave promise of something that already said the name was an illusion. The poor will be more. They come with the red-green project as the niche on the load. Those who claimed that there was only political will can now choose from two explanations: they do not have that will, or they were wrong. The second part of what's about to get stuck is the constant demonstrations of internal disunity, and then I don't think about inside and between the parties, but in the government. I'm not going to funnel the Storting with a long list of examples, but we've seen it demonstrated here in the main hall today: While pricing voluntary efforts in words, the voluntary sector emerges through rigid bidding rounds when the market is opposed to making the health sector here in the Stortinget but allows market thinking to permeate public health businesses in practice when government governments decide to run high voltage currents over Hardanger in sample masts but at the same time gives the people the impression of being opposed. Well, we'll see what's going to be the fasit in that context. This is also a problem for Stortinget, because the lengthy and painful draw struggles in the government have given less room for interaction and cooperation and solutions across the parties in Stortinget. The issues are over in government, and if the Storting changes something, the balance of the fragile internal compromises can be distorted, and it becomes less important for different social interests to come here and hear. In Stortinget, we're going to have to take this situation as an extra challenge. The Christian People's Party is results oriented. We want to contribute constructively. We will show willingness to cooperate. The strength of democracy is that representatives with different backgrounds listen to each other and present their solutions. As the Prime Minister has said countless times, compromises are often better than starting points. But let's get that opportunity. I've wanted for the three years that are left of my period at Stortinget, that we actually get more of that kind of interaction between the parties. It is entirely up to those who have government and majority today, if they want it. I would like to say a little bit about the visions of the Christian People's Party in the future. The identity of the Christian People's Party shall be recognizable. We are a Christian Democratic Center Party. We are convinced that Christian democratic values are inalienable. Just the ability to unify three support columns that are all needed to build a warmer society: individual freedom responsibility for each other respect for human dignity The Christian People's Party is a centre party, because we – more than the true liberals – will bet on the Community solutions. A well-developed welfare society shall be a pillar of the community. But the state shall not grow up in such a way that it impoverishes other communities. That is why – more than the true socialists – we want other building communities to have space and responsibility. Not least family, volunteering and value-creating enterprises. Such communities are inalienable sites for personal maturation and responsibility, care, experiences and value creation. Our society is changing in the face of globalisation and greater cultural diversity, increased competition and new technologies. In such a future, we will need more than ever a normative, bonding glue in the social fabric. We find this in central values in our Christian cultural heritage and in the fundamental human rights. And the principles of equivalency and freedom of expression should not only oblige those who have Norwegian citizenship, but all who will be part of Norwegian society. Good traditions are worth keeping in claim. Our will for solidarity beyond our own borders is part of them. It's Norway's brand. Here, social democracy and Christian democracy have stood in a long-term alliance. But now the media are warning of aid relief in the government's government budget. Both the Norwegian right-hand side and the Norwegian left-hand side should now look to the British. They are much harder hit by the financial crisis than Norway. Nevertheless, the Liberal Conservative Government is protecting, or we are going to say the centre-right government, both health and assistance from budget cuts. The efforts of the world's poor must never become a balancing item. Against that principle, we are going to measure tomorrow's state budget. From an international perspective, Norway is privileged – and the state of the kingdom is good. The state finances are solid. We have natural resources from which we reap abundantly. We have cultural traditions that provide cohesion and stable democracy. The employment rate is high. Public schemes provide social protection. A lot is good. We will cooperate widely to further develop these qualities in Norway. But the need for reform and price change is also great. It was supposed to shine off the care of the elderly. But we're not much better equipped for the aging wave now than we were five years ago. And the elderly who are in need of care are still without legal rights to a decent treatment. It's going to have to get into place. It is promising that the government has notified it. And the Christian People's Party is pleased to be able to lead to the implementation of our main goal from the 2007 election campaign, the dignity guarantee. The government was supposed to eliminate poverty. Instead, it is reported in 10 pst. more homeless, more poor children, more than 4,000 in line for drug treatment, and more in line for psychiatric treatment. Here a new and different course is needed. Too many bullies for crime – and too few crimes are investigated and solved. We are disturbed when the police warn them that they must cut hundreds of posts in the future to keep the budget framework. Here a new course is needed. As oil and gas revenues decline and the waves of old age break down, the need for a forward-looking policy on value creation becomes more urgent. But we're still losing time. There is no proper and sufficient effort to promote a better school, more knowledge and stronger research environments. Here a new course is needed. Some believe that the future will gradually empty families for functions. The idea has ground on several teams, among left-wing orientated people who want to free individuals from old family traditions, and among adherents of individualist freedom ideology on the right-hand side. But you can't unpunished "outsource" the family's core tasks. Instead, we need to strengthen our families, make it easier for them to succeed in the pressures of working life on the one hand and the demands of everyday life on the other. We do that by providing them with flexibility, a real choice between cash support and good kindergartens, and better leave arrangements. It may be positive to extend the parental leave by a few weeks. But the Christian People's Party wants a far more comprehensive reform. We will introduce a ‘flexiperm’, extending the parental leave to 16 months, which can be withdrawn until the child reaches the age of 10. It will provide completely different opportunities to plan everyday life according to the needs of families and children, both in the first year of life of the child and in the next childhood. The Christian People's Party will grant independent permissive rights to father, and we will introduce siblings' bonus, which allows families to lose hundreds of thousands of dollars if mother doesn't manage to work long enough between two childbirths. There is a reform that will make a difference. I've spent a lot of my adult life building public well-being, and I'm a strong fan of it. At the same time, I know that without the voluntary responsibility and the ideal institutions, we do not maintain a good society. We want to make it easier for non-governmental organisations. We will eliminate VAT on voluntary activities and double the tax deduction on voluntary donations. And now we have to take action to save the ideal institutions. They're going down in Norway. Institution after institution has had to lay down under this government, and I don't think the government really will. But it's not useful, Prime Minister, to owe to the municipalities, because it's state health companies, it's state Buffdirektorate and it's state institutions for other things that govern a lot of this, and that make sure that the policy results in something we don't want, namely that the Salvation Army, the Church's City Mission, the Church's Social Service, etc. must make good offers. And those who lose are addicts to addiction, it's child-restraint, and there's others who need good services from professional environments built up over a long time. The Christian People's Party challenges the whole Storting, but especially the Government, in this throne debate of a settlement that puts an end to this development. We're not talking about commercialization. We're talking about taking care of the genuineness we have in Norway, with institutions based on volunteering, at the ideal effort to want something more in politics than just me and myself and myself and myself – something greater than myself. Ideal efforts need to be made in Norway in the future. And I'm absolutely sure that if it's will, there's a way to make such a deal here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e750	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e754	The turnaround began his post with what he called a personal reflection. I would like to ask you this by saying that there is every reason on this occasion here in Stortinget to also express respect for the politician Dagfinn Højbräten. He made a contribution to a very strong and clear Christian People's Party tradition – a party that has never been a party for the rich. It is a strong social policy history in the political activities of the Christian People's Party over 80 years. Now, however, I heard the Højbrätt in the NRK on the morning today, where he said he was not a socialist, but that he had had a very good cooperation with the right side of Norwegian politics. What's the interesting thing about this persuasion debate is to take up that particular perspective. For what is the challenge for the Christian People's Party is how to manage to implement this social policy tradition in cooperation with the right-hand side of Norwegian policy. In fact, the Højbråten did a limit to what he called the outer right, but nevertheless, it will not be able to be implemented, in my opinion. I would like to hear how Hojbräten thinks about this area, and we are talking about the further functioning of the Christian People's Party in Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e763	Let me first thank Mr Kolberg for his recognition and good words. Then he is very right in his description of the Christian People's Party's historical tradition, but he is wrong at one point. History shows that the Christian People's Party in government – and we have participated in all coalitions after the war as closely as the government now sits, and we have led three out of seven of those governments – with the help of the Centre and the Right in some cases, have carried out major social reforms in Norway. We put forward proposals on popular security, and we presented the reform in public confidence. We presented the proposal on Nav reform, and we carried out many of the major health reforms on which there has been even wider consensus in the Stortinget. We have, in cooperation with the Right, been in favour of an offensive international solidarity policy, with the growth of aid every year set by the Bondevik Government. So that's not what the representative Kolberg says. But it shows that the Christian People's Party in the centre of Norwegian politics can move both those that are smaller than us, and those that are larger than us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e772	Of course, it's hard to go into all the details of what's said. But the new situation for the Christian People's Party, as for Norway, is the position of the Advance Party on the right, which is a completely different situation, and which will create a completely different challenge for the Christian People's Party. It is also in that perspective that it is absolutely necessary to address the issue that I have raised. The other side of this, on which I want to use this second line, is what was discussed in the line change also with the Prime Minister, namely the relationship with NPISHs. I have to say that I have difficulty understanding the very consistent attacks that were carried out on the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government in terms of the relationship to volunteering. Voluntary activities are very strong in Norway. Just think of what the Cultural Promise has meant for the development of volunteering during this government. In all sectors, volunteering has had a central place. And what I think will be a common challenge for the red-green side – and for the Christian People's Party – is to prevent the right side from being allowed to commercialise the voluntary sector. Because that's what's going to happen. Look what happened in Oslo!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e779	The representative Martin Kolberg does not have to come forward Oslo to find examples of the commercialisation of the voluntary sector. He can look to his own government. He can look at the practices of health enterprises in relation to non-profit institutions. I'm not talking about private, commercial businesses, but I'm talking about non-profit institutions. I know that concern is deep inside the red-green camp. They just didn't manage to do anything about it. My post today was no frontal attack on that policy. It was an outstretched hand and an invitation to cooperation. And I had hoped that representatives from the Workers' Party, and not least the Prime Minister earlier today, had come a little more into the Christian People's Party. Because, in fact, I believe it is important that there is now a change in this area, as Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, who is one of my good colleagues among parliamentary leaders, has mentioned. It is strange that the Workers' Party has been so little open for that very much in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e786	To follow up this theme, the Prime Minister said in his speech that he was opposed to extensive use of bids for welfare services and that market forces were not suitable for distributing goods. We very much agree with that. Cooperation between the voluntary non-profit sector and the public sector is a choice of a social model on which SV is strongly attached. The point here is how to limit the use of tenders, which was also addressed by the Prime Minister, and the principles around it. The Christian People's Party invites a settlement in this field. Then it is very important for SV to clarify in which direction such a settlement should go. Because, in our view, there is a clear need to draw a distinction between commercial actors and non-profit-making non-profit organisations in this work. There's a fundamentally different approach to this question from us on the left and right and the Progress Party. For they are not willing to draw this distinction and create a code that can capture it in an appropriate way. What does the Christian People's Party mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e793	I'll answer that. The ideal actors that we're both talking about are essentially squandered from two sides. They are being swept away from a state and a public system that really seems to be the best way for everything to happen in public. These attitudes are deeply rooted in the state system. Everyone who's been working near it knows that. The second pressure is from the economic rationality of the market. It may come from a commercial part of the sector, but it also comes from government policies, because market principles are in use under the red-green government more than ever, and more than EEA legislation requires of us. There are exceptions, which this government has not been willing to use so far. I think it is necessary to sit down and stop this policy, which they really do not want, and to ensure that there is room for the ideal institutions, which both Karin Andersen and I are committed to ensuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e800	Nils Lavik founded a Christian People's Party and spent 20 years on the Stortinget. Kjell Bondevik gave a memorial in the NRK when Lavik left in 1966. I quote: ‘Nils Lavik has in many ways seen deep marks in Norwegian society. He was one of these warmhearted men, who certainly thought of the many small ones in society, those who had received the least economic and cultural." Lavik was also a living part of rural policy, innovation and agriculture, and Lavik was one of the first to use the word ‘population’ in the Stortinget in 1936. This is not only a distant inheritance, it has also been a red center thread in the work of the Christian People's Party all the time – Norwegian values and justice for all, from Lavik via Korvald, two magazines Bondevik and now also the Høybrätten, people we in my party share a lot and have great respect for. But that's exactly why it's hard to imagine that the Christian People's Party would go into close cooperation with the Advance Party, a party that represents a lot of other things. Nevertheless, it is important to ask the Højbråt about it today, because we also see that the debate is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e812	I believe my main post here today gave the necessary answers that the representative Borten Moe is looking for as to what kind of party the Christian People's Party should be. We in the Christian People's Party are firmly anchored in the tradition of Lavik, Bondevik, Korvald and Bondevik – Kjell Magne Bondevik. But we think that the center is at its best when the center has the ability to cooperate both on the left side and on the right side. The centre party has chosen to link to the far left in this magnification period, while the Christian People's Party has always been concerned that the centre should have the space for action to create solutions across the center. That's what we had under the central government, where our two parties put together. We also had that in the Bondevik II government, where we made a deal both to the right of us and to the left of us. That's the center line that Anne Enger Lahnstein has stood for, and I would like the Center Party to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e819	I think many of us have come to believe that volunteering in the welfare of Norway can be both developed and renewed, and that it is a very important contribution. They often take up new fields, new areas, they mobilize volunteers in a different way than others, and they are engaged, not driven by dividends. They differ in that they are an important addition to the basic, that is, the welfare state, but they also differ significantly from some commercial actors. I can't help but realize that there's a reason why, in addition to the extensive improvements that have been made in recent years, it could be possible to go further with a closer cooperation with the Christian People's Party. But I think it's an important commitment to it, because it's not just about long-term, stable framework conditions to the state, but also about being willing to take on with extensive competitive outsourcing and offering, where they're idealistically squandered by the commercial because they can't compete on equal terms, and because they're not recognised for their own value base. Does the High Commissioner agree with that understanding of the non-profit sector and the challenges there?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e826	Let me first give Bård Vegar Solhjell recognition for the political opposition he showed when he recently stated in the evening post that there was a need for ‘a shift of lines to a conscious bet on the non-profit private sector’. I could use the opportunity to say welcome after, but I have used the opportunity to say yes, we would like to be together about that. This does not mean that we necessarily agree on all aspects of voluntary policy. The Christian People's Party is probably more relaxed about the fact that even commercial people are getting involved in welfare production, assuming that there is a clear government. There I am in line with what the Prime Minister said that the municipalities must have a freedom in it. But I think that within what has been said – both from the Solhjell and from the opposition parties gathered here in the Stortinge during both the previous and this period – it should be possible to find solutions that stop this insane closure of ideal drug, child protection and social institutions, and provide a new give for the voluntary and non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e831	Dagfinn Højbrätten said that the centre party has left Anne Enger Lahnstein's centre line. No, on the contrary, we've just completed that center line because as the only center party, we've shown that we can cooperate on both sides. After following the debate and the Christian People's Party here today – and not least the change of words between Kolberg and Høybräten – I can't wait to sum it up that there is no justification between the policy of the government and the policy of the Christian People's Party, so that the challenge the representative gave me in his reply about the Central Party, I don't feel like a problem to return. The Christian People's Party also has a choice as to which direction one wants the Norwegian society to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e839	Yes, and I said a lot in my post about where I think we need to have a new direction of policy in relation to the policy that the current government is pursuing, and where the Senter party has committed itself to compromising with SV in all matters. We have never, on the part of the Christian People's Party, entered into an alliance where we have been bound to compromise with one of the extremes of Norwegian politics in all matters. That's the difference between the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in this context. And let me repeat that: we need a new course in the fight against poverty. The government hasn't worked out there, and the national effort we talked about in the election campaign last year, it hasn't been any of that. There we need a new course. We need a new school and research course, what's going on there, is far too puzzled. We need a new course that relieves business's value creation more in terms of burdensome burdens such as inheritance taxes on generation change, property taxes on working capital, etc., and we need a much more bold defence for the national Christian and humanistic values that I know both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are strongly on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e846	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e849	The left believes that we live in a good society in Norway today. There are a lot of people who are doing well, and society is prepared to help those who are not doing well. The challenge in today's Norwegian communities is to become aware of the challenges we are going to face in the future. The left believes that it should be at the top of a government's agenda not only to do good everyday life, but to do good in the future. That's why you have to make some big and important choices, including for the future. The first and most important area is our marine environment; the climate challenges and the major challenges facing our entire globe. It is not possible to ask others to do the job for us. Sick if we have a lot of money on book, what we have to do is make the changes, we are technology drivers, and we have to want to be drivers in the areas of future technology, climate solutions and energy solutions for the future. Norway has natural resources to enable us to be Europe’s battery if we had been busy putting it into operation. Now we see that many countries are raging past us in technology development and in the use of new technologies. Yes, sail China bets huge sums in areas where we think we're kind when we give them some money to set off some less coal-fired power plants. The second big effort is to create what we're going to live on in the future, and that's the knowledge of Norwegian citizens. Putting on knowledge from primary school up to research and higher education is about investing in and developing the citizens of Norwegian society, developing the possibilities and potential of them, letting them live out their dreams, letting them build their knowledge, so that we actually have something to live on in the future. It's Norwegian citizens' heads we're going to live off in the future. That is why we need to focus on knowledge, research and development. The third area is creating the business that's going to give us the income that we're going to be able to distribute in society. But it's also about human growth and the distribution of power. That is why it is important to have a business that is developing, and therefore it is important to renew the public sector, not just to do as the Prime Minister said, to have a good dialogue with employees’ organisations in order to develop new, good solutions. The left has now visited hundreds of companies in the last ten days to find out what Norwegian small and large companies are fighting against. I wonder if maybe the Prime Minister should also have the dialogue to find out how to simplify and improve the Norwegian society. And then you have to renew the welfare state. The renewal of the welfare state should be done by those who are happy in the welfare country. When the Workers' Party frames up the great milestones in the history of developing the welfare state, there are very many of the ramifications that really stem from the times of Gunnar Knudsen and the Left. The NRK's spectrum pointed to an interesting falsification of history here by day, when they rammed up important social arrangements that the Workers' Party had put in place, where largely Gunnar Knudsen had introduced all those that were rammed up. When it comes to renewing the public sector, it's not just about developing the models you have, but also about inventing new grips. The government goes back to old-socialist thinking about what's called a renewed grip. Such a grip is e.g. to tell all entrepreneurs – female entrepreneurs, mostly – and social entrepreneurs in the field, that their jobs are not worth anything. Although this government has had kindergarten expansion as one of its top and most important things, they drag away the carpet under those who have done the job for them. It is Norwegian entrepreneurs, Norwegian women entrepreneurs. Do not come here and talk about equal pay when you take the pension from all those who have completed the job that you have actually asked them to do. This shows the introduction of an antisocialist thinking that has left Cuba, China and Castro. The second approach is to the child protection sector, where there is great resistance to all the private actors who are disgusting and commercial. No, the private actors are very often ideal actors. Ideal actors are not only those who have stamped the Church's Bymission or other non-profit organizations on them; there are also many generations of companies that have sacrificed their lives for generations by using all their days to run good homes for children who need it extra. What is the problem with this government? I think that this government might have a good time reading Mona Sahlin's own evaluation of their own election campaign, that's that everyone should come along, but no one knew where. It's very hard to read today's throne and figure out what this government really wants. You take care of each other and make sure that someone doesn't get anything more than others, and then you end up not wanting anything. In addition, we see a constant feeding of our own partners, from the big brother Arbeiderpartiet. It's probably just this old-fashioned thinking about kindergarten profits for which SV has really got an impact. I've been reading the censuses for the last few years and I want to show some of the developments at one point where the government was clinking clear and direct in the throne, namely the immigration field. In 2006 the government said – listen now: ‘The government works for an inclusive society, free from racism. Participation in the labour market is central to successful integration. The government will present a separate action plan for the integration and inclusion of immigrants. The Government will also submit proposals for a new Foreign Law. The law shall facilitate socially decent and managed immigration.’ What do they say the following year? The left was very pleased with the first formulation. In the following year, it is said that the government will present a «burden message on labour migration». In 2008, it says that the government should work for a ‘human asylum and refugee policy’. And then it shrinks more and more. In 2010, they say that they should conduct a ‘consistent, fair and law-enforceable refugee and asylum policy’. The government will reduce the number of persons without the need for protection seeking asylum in Norway and quickly return non-residents.’ I understand that the government wants to have a small progress party, but are you willing to sacrifice words like humanism, inclusion and the fight against racism on that table? We now see, and have seen in the last few days, reports from Greece – a country to which we are European masters in returning – how they are economically unable – and are not willing to bet – to have proper asylum treatment. We know they can't keep the conventions they have. During the Bondevik II government, we experienced the same thing. Then we stopped the return immediately, and then we checked what really happened in Greece, before we continued. The left today has a proposal that I want to promote, to stop returns to Greece until we can be sure that they respect fundamental human rights and fundamental international conventions and are able to treat people properly. There's no reason for us in Norway to be world champions in returning to Greece when they say they can't do their job, and the UN High Commissioner says the same thing. The left has a sister party all over Europe that has taken this up and got it through. The Liberal Conservative Government in England has decided to stop returning to Greece. It is rather embarrassing that Norway should be the best in the class in this area! Well-being is becoming an ideological battleground, where you basically discuss how much you should have on the old arrangements, without being creative and thinking new. We need to focus on innovation, better regulation and facilitate everyone to take power over their own working day and build businesses on the basis of it. That's how you build well-being for the future. That's how you make choices for the future that we can actually live with, and then the Left believes that there should have been a completely different and more practical and concrete action in the debate on the throne.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e899	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e904	I think there is every reason for Skei Grande to highlight Gunnar Knudsen and the liberal tradition, which Left has represented in Norwegian politics. It has contributed to a lot, especially in the historical perspective. Much of the society we see today is based on what Skei Grande said in his article. But it is all the more remarkable that through the rest of her contribution she breaks that tradition so fundamentally by confronting the centre/left force of Norwegian politics and our relationship to the same, namely the important liberal value, the freedom of the individual. I would say in the historical perspective – not least in the current position – that we, as much as the Left, represent the ability for humans to live a good and free life and have personal freedom, which is the important liberal value. She did not say one word about the right side of her post, which is a real threat to this important liberal value – individual freedom. I noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e911	We're now discussing the throne of this government, and I find reason to comment on the throne number. I wonder if it is such that the representative Kolberg believes that the proposals relating to maximum profits and the taking of property through the nursery rules were good in relation to the individual freedom of people? Is there such a regulatory framework that one can open up foundations and innovation within the social area? It was just a small example of how today’s government intervenes in people’s freedom and ability to develop their ideas into businesses – but also in the social field. Shouldn't it be that all good ideas and all good businesses are always created within the hard productions? Ladies must also be entrepreneurs of what they are concerned about. They have often been busy making good kindergartens, and I don't understand why the government is attacking their freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e918	If the representative from the Left is critical of the government's asylum policy, I am curious about how she will characterise the asylum policy in which the government put its own party, represented then they halved the number of quota refugees. We have tightened up mainly towards those who do not have the right to stay in Norway. The left-wing government has tightened up against the very weakest refugee group — those in camps without resources to pay traffickers to get to Norway. Without budgetary support from the Left, the Progress Party would not be part of the power of the city that the representative Skei Grande and I represent. With words and actions, the Oslo Progress Party has shown that they are foreshadowing illiberal values. The leader of the Oslo Progress Party has compared people with immigrant background with the Nazis in the 1930s. In one year's time there will be local elections, and then the Left will have a new opportunity to show that power is no more important than responsibility. How long will the Liberal Left continue to be the crack that the Ilberal Progress Party will use as its local political platform in many places in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e925	It is true that the Oslo Progress Party has better offices than the Oslo Left, but we are the ones who decide. The Progress Party has no opportunity to influence with its opinions, either in immigration policy or in refugee policy, from its fine offices in Oslo. We get very well done in Oslo that we are proud of. And then to the beginning of the question. Yes, we are proud of the immigration and refugee policy that we had in government. The reason why we didn't increase the number of quota refugees was actually because we had a huge increase in the number of asylum applications. What we did then was not to send out horror messages around the other streets, but we actually did a huge job to get those who had to get out quickly, got a quick treatment, and then we fixed up the whole system. But what does the government do? The government says, now we're going to send out scary images, now we're going to tighten up, now we're really going to take them out, go out on the nets and take people out of their homes, while the kids are standing next to and see that dad disappears. It does the government of the day. But are they increasing the number of quota refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e934	The left-hand side likes to look like a center part. But we see more and more that they are joining forces with the Right and the Advance Party. I'm particularly surprised that the Left joins with the Right when it relates to the weakest in society. In particular, I would like to point out that the Left is associated with the Right Party and the Progress Party when it involves a strong rejection of an offensive measure against social dumping. They claim that measures against social dumping prevent competition in wages. But we know what competition for pay is going on. It's the weakest in society. Then I wonder who it is Left Mein to get less pay? Is it the washing staff, is it the building workers, is it they added to the fishing industry in the north? We know that a wage to live off and a job to live with is the most important measure against poverty, which the Left is very busy with verbally. We asked the same question in connection with the revision, and we got no answer, just around the conversation. [[The President clubs.]] So now we want to know, who's going to have less pay for the Left to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e939	The President asks the representatives to deal with the speaking time set aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e942	I'll try. It was a long question, but I'll give you a short answer. The measures taken to combat social dumping most often lead to the opposite. Let me give you a concrete example. If SV had checked their study circle against reality, they would probably have discovered the following: When the first Poles arrived, they would have to have approval to come in. In order to prevent social dumping, each employer had to make an agreement at the local police office for each individual Polish who came in. That means they were linked to this employer. SV’s anti-dumping measures led to their being linked to one employer. They could not provide their labour force to others. Now they're cancelling out. So what do we see? Well, now Poland can negotiate wages and salaries, they can offer their workforce, and everyone has increased wages and salaries. All have increased wages and salaries when the restrictions were actually lifted. Now I think it's time for SV to take some reality checks on what's going on around them, and don't think it's desk regulations that actually save people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e952	The representative of Skei Grande has talked about climate and climate, and her previous questions to the representative of Siv Jensen were also good, namely whether climate change is man-made. Climate and environment are just one of many areas where there is a great distance between the Left and the Advance Party. I see the Left as a party that is largely based on the values of my own party: respect for the individual, faith in the private initiative, the will to strengthen local democracy and the vision of renewable society – short and good centre values. The left has also co-operated with the government in several important settlements, in which the Progress Party has not participated. My question to Skei Grande will then be: Will the Left continue to stand on the centre line and be a guarantor of cooperation with the Progress Party, which will lead to a dramatic breach of the model of society on which Norway is based?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e963	I could say yes. But what matters to the Left is not necessarily who sits in the offices, which are very detailed. What matters to us is which policy is being pursued. Our mandate is about our programme. It's about doing something about the climate challenges, it's about doing something about the knowledge society, it's about finding modern welfare systems, and assuming that we're going to get into a business that lives and thrives here in the country. That's what we're going to vote on, and we're going to search with those who provide the best basis for us to implement that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e970	Let me first say that I like the representative Trine Skei Grande very much, and the post was also very good. But one thing I don't like is the representative Skei Grande's constant references to SV and study circles. I think, on the contrary, that the Left should free itself from desktop theory and ideas about how politics works, which is not consistent with the laws of gravity in the hall. I wonder: Left dreams and agitations for a civil majority, and in a situation where Norwegian emissions are going down, where we have a broad climate agreement, and where Norwegian climate commitments are miles ahead of the Left in government, and in a situation where the largest bourgeois party on the Stortinget will subsidize petrol, Norwegian climate requirements will be eliminated, and not on three direct questions from the representative, Skei Grande, will be able to recognise man-made climate change. Why does the Left want to give the Progress Party a hand on the steering wheel of climate policy? Why is it so important that you want to make enemies the parties that might be closest to you in the climate issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e975	I must also declare that I like the representative Serigstad Valen very much, and that is because we agree very much on environmental policy. I hope that we will cooperate on environmental policy in the future, too, and I don't see how we will vote to get into conflict with that very thing. But what I see is that the Left has shown many times that this is something that can be countered in politics, and we have shown that with two representatives of big business, we have been able to get three government councils. So we're not so busy with the weight. Maybe SV should have learned a little bit about that too. Because I feel that SV has become a bit like the end of «Animal Farm» when the workhorse is inside and looks at the pigs that have taken over the farm. And I think the quote is quite clear: he looked from man to pig, and from pig to man, and finally it was impossible to separate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e982	I'm not going to follow up on what the representative is now suggesting, but I'm going to re-examine the debate on social dumping. I believe that the representative Skei Grande is very easily jumping over the measures that have just taken to ensure that those who come to the country get pay and working conditions that are in line with Norwegian workers. So the left has chosen to vote against these measures. Trine Skei Grande says, "It's very nice that people who come here get real pay and working conditions." Yeah, that's right. However, the main argument that this is the case is that the measures that the government has actually taken — and that the Left has been against — are based on the fact that Norwegian workers who are in a poor position in the labour market, or the foreigners who come here to work, must find themselves working under worse conditions and underpaid than in the Norwegian labour market. Does the representative Skei Grande think that Norwegian wage and working conditions will remain the same if there is no strong measure against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e991	Yeah, I think so, because that's what we see in practice. The practice is that when people have the freedom to make agreements with their employers, we see that Poles and Filipinos are not dumber than they are actually making good deals. They know what the price of the labour force is in the society in which they provide their labour force. But what should be the government's focus is about the human trafficking that also exists in all the areas that we don't connect with women. There are equal numbers of men who are exposed to human trafficking in Norwegian workplaces within Norwegian entrepreneurship companies, but no form checks are detected in Norway, because the forms and papers look very fine according to all laws and regulations. But there are criminal structures that have access to people, and that make the money they get on the paper, they actually don't get into their own account. These are the challenges we face with more labour mobility in Europe. These are the challenges that should have been addressed – not ensuring that the papers are in order, because the papers are in order more often than they are in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e999	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1002	In these days it is one year since the majority government regained confidence after the red-green electoral victory last harvest. This fall is also five years since the red-green government began ruling the country. Therefore, it is natural to sum up and ask: Has this been a good year for Norway? I believe the answer is yes, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, the Norwegian economy is strong. While the countries around us experience unemployment and great well-being, we have been so far well-off through the financial crisis. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and we are still in the top level on the UN list of the world's best countries to live in. Norway was not a bad country to live in 2005, either. But since that time, many parents have had a simpler everyday life because the goal of full kindergarten coverage has been achieved. Many fathers have been given a much greater opportunity to share in their children's lives through the expansions made by the paperwork and to be done. Many older people and caregivers have been given the help they need, because the red-green government has given priority to the ability of municipalities to hire more people in care rather than tax havens. Norwegian drivers have just experienced the asphalt summers of time on Norwegian roads, which is due to an ambitious national transport plan that is being followed up. Norwegian business leaders are largely optimistic about the future. We see that the number of new jobs is increasing and industrial employment is rising. My own part of the country, the northern part of the country, has also regained the belief in the future, which is largely due to the government's offensive initiative in the north. But the fact that we are doing well in Norway, should not be a resting place for the government and the red-green majority. We still have big problems to solve. It's about ensuring that we still have a low level of unemployment in a world where many countries still have both legs deeply planted in the financial crisis. We're going to work for a more decent working life, not least in women's dominated industries such as cleaning, hotel and restaurant. We need to give new opportunities to the many who are out of work for different reasons. We need to secure enough nursing homes and day care places for our older people who need them. We need to improve the quality of primary school and combat the dropout in high school. And we will systematically continue to correct imbalances and injustices that still exist in Norway. Nor is Norway going to be a perfect society in 2013, but it's going to be a better society in three years' time than it is today. We're going to bring the world's best welfare societies into the future. There are probably not many who will express disagreement about these objectives, but political Norway differs in two ways in how to meet tomorrow’s challenges – together or individually. The red-green parties and the right parties also separate layers as to how to use the community's resources: on tax cuts or to finance the great promises we have to make within care, health and school. It was previously called the ‘Nordic model’, but which is increasingly called the ‘Norwegian model’, has given us small social differences between people, low unemployment and, not least, high productivity and economic growth. The model has been tested, through rising times and through an international crisis. It is therefore understandable that the right-wing parties and their supporters also want to present it as if the government’s political colour had no bearing on the development of the Norwegian model. The problem is that the model is based on three pillars: a level of taxation that can finance the good welfare arrangements we have in Norway a strong public sector tripartite cooperation between the state, trade union movement and the employers' side; As long as the right side consistently challenges the model by attacking all three pillars, they are not credible defenders of the Norwegian model – either of our welfare society. To put it another way: the balls of the welfare society are not found on the right-hand side of Norwegian politics. When the Right sat in government with the Christian People's Party and the Left a few years ago, their Right Policy was moderated by the Center Parties. Now the Right's only possible way to power goes through the Progress Party, and it's going to be a completely different political direction for Norway if they get that opportunity. Defending and managing the welfare society is not compatible with implementing tax cuts to several tens of billions of dollars when we know at the same time that we need to ensure sufficient care and care for a population of increasing age – and when we know that oil revenues will fall and that fewer workers per pensioner will be involved in and bear the fragility of the welfare society. A welfare state as a re-consultant and a public sector that ensures good and equivalent welfare offers to all, regardless of wallets and wherever you live, has both ensured small differences between people and widespread upsurges in the way we have organised Norwegian society. Ideal actors have played a very important role in the Norwegian welfare society over several decades, and we also use other private actors when appropriate and cost-effective. But the right-hand side's eagerness to privatise and commercialise basic welfare services is contrary to this tradition. The money the community spends on, for example: care for the elderly must be used as effectively as possible precisely on care, not on enterprises that will make money on the commercialisation and transformation of basic welfare services into markets, or by building up heavy bidding bureaucracies. For the Workers' Party, the publicly paid elderly care is not about industrial policy. For us, it is about good services for the individual who needs help, care and human contact, regardless of the individual’s ability to pay. Tripartite cooperation is part of the Norwegian model which can hardly be overestimated. Norwegian workers have had an impact on strong professional rights. In return, in Norway, we have a responsible trade union movement that has contributed to sustainable pension reform, metsure measures against the financial crisis and moderate wage-fixing in the interests of industry. There is therefore a link between employee rights and a competitive Norwegian business. This is in stark contrast to the way it is in countries such as the United States and Japan. France, where government and trade union movement are scarcely on the verge of speech, and where there is a strike almost at all times, with the social costs it has. Therefore, it is disappointing that the right parties in Norway do not value our responsible trade union movement to a greater extent, but doubt their proposals to weaken the labour-environment law and systematically vote against measures to combat social dumping. The fight against social dumping is, of course, about caring for workers in the most vulnerable sectors. However, it is also a matter of ensuring that serious companies do not compete with unprofessional operators who exploit their workforce and who also want to take shortcuts in relation to laws and regulations at the same time. I ask, how can the Progress Party defend undefiled conditions within clean-up, hotel and restaurant while otherwise trying to appear as a law-and-order party? And how does it turn out that the Right, which in other contexts is engaged in a level playing field, seems to be a good thing that unprofessional companies are intercepting tenders and commissions from the companies that offer their employees tariffs and orderly conditions? Finally, I would like to stress the importance of equality for the Norwegian welfare society and vice versa. The participation of Norwegian women in the labour market is a fundamental element for obtaining the income we need to finance well-being and for manning all the tasks to be solved. At the same time, kindergarten development, good maternity leave arrangements and a finely masked social safety network have helped to give Norwegian women the freedom we enjoy today. Therefore, gender equality policy must continue to be a social task and not a responsibility solely on the shoulders of each woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1054	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1057	Helga Pedersen talked a lot about what the welfare state has to offer. She spoke very little about what the welfare state requires in order to function in terms of the need to produce income and the need to provide services in the best possible way. The latter debate has been very much affected, but in the first debate, oil and gas policy, which has been our main source of income, has been brought to the fore. In a line-up earlier today between Inga Marte Thorkildsen from SV and Siv Jensen, Inga Marte Thorkildsen gave a clear impression that the Progress Party does not need to celebrate oil and gas activities in the West Pole and Lofoten. You don't even have to have a vorspiel. Ergo: The impression she gave was that the government has already concluded that there will be no activity here. I know a lot of workers' party representatives, especially in the West, who would probably have found such a conclusion already quite perceptive. Therefore, it is natural to ask the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party whether she is aware that the government has already concluded in line with the impression of No Marte Thorkildsen giving today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1066	Building the welfare community is about demanding its right and doing its duty. When people are at work, they do their duty both by engaging in social activities and by participating in and raising incomes for the community. I am glad that under the red-green government we have succeeded well. Then I expect my relatives in the West, like my associates in the North, to be very pleased with the Northern Region policy that the government has led, with the new initiatives that have led to new activity in the Barents Sea by the fact that the divider line has come into place, with the prospects and opportunities it offers. We will continue to have offensive policies to create jobs in the north. When it comes to the sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Vesterål, we haven't concluded. There we are going to carefully weigh the consideration of Norwegian suppliers' jobs against the fishing industry and the interests of the fishing industry, which has carried the settlement in North Norway for several hundred years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1074	That was really a very nice answer, because it shows that SV once again in the oil and gas policy is put on the sideline when it comes to the playbacks they're going to join the Stortinget. Then I'm very pleased with that answer. At the same time, we have talked a lot about the Norwegian model. Now it is at least known that the Workers' Party has not cancelled oil and gas as an important source of income in the future. That's good. But I have a plan from the Workers' Party here that shows changes in employment. From the third quarter of 2008 to the third quarter of 2009, the Norwegian model, according to this plan, is based on a slight increase in employment in oil extraction, which can be pleasant and good, but in addition to this, there is only an increase in employment in central government and municipal government during this 12-month period. In all other industrial areas, construction, trade in goods, transport, financial services and others, there is a decline. Does the representative think that it is a good way to illustrate the Norwegian model, that it is actually the public sector that the government is using to get to the policy they want to pursue, while where they actually create values and export incomes, do you reduce employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1081	I believe that the red-green government has found a very good balance between the consideration of new activity and business and the consideration of the environment. It was very well illustrated when we presented the management plan for the Barents Sea a few years ago. Then the oil industry said it was pleased, the environmental organisations said they were very happy on the way, and the fishing industry was cheering. I am sure that we will be able to find the good balance and the wise solutions – also in the matters we are going to solve for the harvest. The Norwegian welfare society is based on creating income and then sharing the values. It is in stark contrast to the policies of the Progress Party, which are about distributing tax credits to those who need it least and who have the most from before. In this way, we can't get sick homes, take away health cows and build the good school for the future. I am very pleased that Norwegian business has become well-concealed through the financial crisis. It's in stark contrast to many countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1090	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has become the leading spokesman for the new political debate that I am seeing among the red-greens, not to believe what we are saying in Norwegian politics, but to try to look for examples everywhere else: in Sweden, in the United Kingdom, from Thatcher and Berlusconi – yes, I do not know when we are going to get new ideas about what the Right really stands for. One of the major examples is the tax relief in Sweden. It's true that the Swedish government gave 74 billion dollars. kr in tax relief. In the election campaign, Mona Sahlin was asked what she wanted to reverse. Then she was going to reverse two of those billions. That's why my question to Helga Pedersen is, is it that 72 billion? kr of the tax reliefs to Fredrik Reinfeldt are good politics, but that it is only the last two billion that are the problem, and that creates the degradation of the Nordic welfare model, as she argues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1097	In my post and in a line change earlier today, I have challenged the Right Party and the Advance Party to talk about their policy. They still have the opportunity to do that, for example: say where to take the tens of billions of tax bills that the Right and the Advance Party want together. Is it in health, is it in school or is it in other important areas? You can't cut 15 billion. NOK, as is the case with the Right, in property taxes and inheritance taxes by bringing down the county – not even the 50-70 billion. kr that the Progress Party wants to cut. It was also shown earlier in the debate that the reason why Norway is doing so well is because we have oil money. What Norway and Sweden have in common is that we are rich countries that have a lot of resources at their disposal, and that is the big question: are we going to use them to secure jobs and develop common welfare, or are we going to give them away in tax havens to those who have the most from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1104	I record that Helga Pedersen would not answer my question. But that's a little bit of the rhetoric you're conducting, it's exactly the same way that you were against all the tax concessions that the previous government gave. But when you decided that you had reached the level in 2004, it was fine, and you wouldn't increase the taxes from there. But what I think is the main challenge is that the Workers' Party is trying to pretend... Sorry, but someone has forgotten to put on a line. Shall we start again?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1114	No, no, no. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1117	But I don't know how much time I've spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1122	You have 35 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1125	The main challenge, I think, with Helga Pedersen's rhetoric, is that she does not take on what is actually happening at the moment in our neighbouring countries. Denmark has a growth of 3.8 pst., Finland has a growth of 3.4 pst., and Sweden has a growth of 4.5 pst. Norway has a growth of 0.9 pst.Oh, my God! To say that the Nordic model is buried in the other countries when it is based on higher productivity, higher growth to support well-being, it may well be that when you measure in two to three years, the answer is that it is really the three other countries that will get the best through the financial crisis. Has the Labour Party's parliamentary leader at all reflected on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1130	Numbers can be used for so much, and the figures that Solberg's representative now used for, among other things. Sweden, doesn't tell the whole truth about a Sweden where the differences are increasing, up to 25 pst. Among young people, the general unemployment rate is 8 p.p., where well-being is reduced, and where there are fewer teachers in school when the number of pupils rises. That is why I think it is fundamentally irresponsible to address tax havens in the situation while in Norway we have difficult welfare tasks to solve in the years to come. And when Swedish young people come to Oslo and to Norway to work in cafes and restaurants, it may be because they think Norway is an amazingly exciting and exotic country, but I think the real explanation is that they just don't get to work in Sweden. And that's a long way to go as a result of political elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1135	President! It's an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1141	Yes, then we will have to take it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1144	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1149	The Labour Party parliamentary leader makes it clear that the Workers' Party wants to further develop the welfare state by 2013. She lists three posts in the so-called Norwegian welfare model. She does not mention the contribution of the non-profit and voluntary sector in this regard, but the representative Pedersen nevertheless says some positive words about the contribution of non-profit actors to the welfare state in his contribution. The Christian People's Party has noted this with great interest. However, today’s situation is that the important contributors themselves demonstrate that if the framework conditions continue as they do today, these offers will be gone in five to ten years due to the red-green policy and framework conditions. So the question for Pedersen's representative is, is the Workers' Party comfortable running the country while the ideal actors show that this is the situation? And: Will the Workers' Party accept the invitation to a settlement that the Christian People's Party has given in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1158	The voluntary sector and non-profit organisations carry out very important tasks in the Norwegian welfare community, and the need for their efforts will not be diminished in the coming years. That's for sure. We basically share the Christian People's Party's view of this important part of welfare production. That is why we have also taken the voluntary and non-profit organisations out in our own bidding rounds in the area of child protection, so that they do not compete with the commercial ones. When I have had conversations with others The Salvation Army and the Church's City Mission in Oslo, they say, "We can't wait to be measured on quality." We can compete. What we don't tolerate is being out of competition by commercial actors. For example, such actors tend to squander them. employee relationships. So the answer is, yes, we share the Christian People's Party's basic view of this area. We'll probably get the ideas of the Christian People's Party in the field in the course of the fall, and then we'll have to take the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1167	Just one year ago, I challenged the representative Helga Pedersen on the issue of future municipal structure, and whether there was no need for larger municipalities with greater responsibilities than today's, especially in order to provide better welfare and health services. If necessary, this had to be done with a mild form of coercion. At that time, the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party replied: ‘I see that there are some places where there is a need to make changes to the municipal structure, but I believe that to get a good process it is important that it is based on volunteering.’ Now obviously the pipe has got a different sound. A few weeks ago, Helga Pedersen told the NRK that we have to open up coercion of municipalities, because this is about the big lines of Norwegian welfare policy. Did the representative Pedersen say this because the centre party is down for count? Is that a delay? Or is it because Pedersen has realized that the Left was right a year ago, and that the Workers' Party now agrees with us in the Left in the view of the future's municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1179	In fact, the Workers' Party has programmed the need for changes in the municipal structure. Both the party and I still believe that the best is based on volunteering. What I have mentioned in our programme discussions by 2013 and 2029 is that we need to discuss whether volunteering should be stimulated to a greater extent than it is today. And then I've said that if this doesn't show up, at the next crossroads, we have to consider whether we're going to have a guided aggregation where a commission is going to draw the new Norway map. But I would very much like to stress that the Soria Moria statement is fixed for this period, where the government, in other words, offers to pay the cost of aggregation for those who want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1188	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1191	The Trontals show that the red-green government will continue its projects on the environment, climate, integration, well-being, work – a range of areas. Today, we have one of Europe's most radical declarations of government. With a number from the Progress Party and the Right, we can get one of Europe's most dark blue government statements – if the last months' measurements were to be taken at one time. So we would be the only country next to Italy where the right and outer right sit in government together. I think that because of the common growth of the Right Party and the Progress Party on the measurements, we owe the voters the debate on the clear ideological differences that this gives. I notice that Erna Solberg doesn't like international comparisons. For good reason, I would say, because it will be a violation of what most right parties in Europe and in Norway have done before. When the Right cooperated with the Center, it was the center party that moderated tax cuts to the Right. They moderated the weakening of the local economy, and slightly moderated the cuts in employee rights. Now, instead, the Right shall cooperate with the turbo version of itself. Instead of strengthening labour rights and intensifying the fight against social dumping, we will see attacks by two parties that are both opposed to the current policy. We also want to see two parties who want to lead Norway towards a society of greater social differences, and who, when it comes to the fight against poverty, say that there is no difference, despite the fact that there is now heavy evidence internationally and in Norwegian research that small social differences are important for lower crime, better health, right life expectancy – yes, good for the whole of society. So right has been a brake block in the development of the Norwegian welfare state for 126 years. From being opposed to general voting rights to the reluctantly accepted eight-hour day and tax-funded age sentences, the Right's job has been to oppose, so reluctantly to accept in retrospect. That's why I wasn't the only one who got backwards when Erna Solberg claimed that the Right's soul is in welfare policy. For example, the list of what they have systematically countered in the last three decades. children's housing, statutory entitlement to further education, school leisure arrangements, max. price and full child care coverage in the kindergarten arrangement, free textbooks in further education, paper commission – «you name it». To use an example, when the Stortinget decided in 1997 that municipalities should be obliged to have a school free time scheme, the representative Sanner argued against a law-making process, because the SFO was to be organised ‘by non-governmental organisations and parents’. Senner had noted with interest that the right-wing council in Oslo had encouraged parents to ‘may use its Gro Day to work in the school leisure scheme. That, I think, will be a positive measure for both parents and children». So one is just a Google search or a trip to the deposit library to find a number of such examples from the recent history of the Right's welfare policy. I took this up instead. Then Erna Solberg came up with a rather eye-catching definition of the welfare state. She said that one in the Right might see it a little different than the SV, because it wasn't all the welfare arrangements that we want people to use, a thought -- not in school, old age care, kindergarten, etc., that we're a few people to use -- but that's all we don't want people to use. That's a great logic! Then the reasoning will be perfect. We want to cut the welfare state, because the welfare state just means everything we're not supposed to use – and that's the goal that no one should use it. But that's not how it works. In the future, we will need a range of welfare arrangements, all of which are some that we will use. But there's also a lot of other things, because people need support and help from the public. An example where I know that Erna Solberg himself has shown a great commitment, applies to adults who are tired of reading and writing. Right to further education, which we now have for everyone, has just been an important right so that everyone can go to the public and say, I need this offer, and I actually have a right to it. That's why being an offensive welfare policy means building up the welfare state, but also developing it further, renewing it and thinking about it. It's not the Right and the Advance Party that's going to do if they get multiples, but it's the project of the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1211	It's going to be line change. It's a small challenge with the clocks, but the president has the clock on his arm, so we get to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1216	The representative spends a lot of his time drawing a scare image of an outer right that can be in government in Norway. At the same time, he talks about his own government being the most radical government in Europe. For me, it suggests that the outer right of Norway is really the centre of Europe, when we see what the scale really is. Thus Norwegian voters have little to fear, but much to rejoice about. Let's do a concrete thing: Kårstø. The government promised to clean Kårstø by 2009. The party of progress has always been against it, but the government has still spent more than half a billion dollars on cleaning – despite the fact that Gassnova, which is the government’s own trade union body, recommends not to spend time on Kårstø yet, but concentrates entirely on cleaning in Mongstad, for which the Advance Party is for. Will SV finally admit that the Kårstø project, which has been in place until now, was defective? Will they stop spending time and money on it, so that we can concentrate on success in Mongstad – in line with both the opposition and Gassnova's recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1223	It surprises me very much that the representative Solvik-Olsen believes that the facts about what the Right Party and the Progress Party can do when they gain power, simply to form government, are a scary image. Are they the scares themselves on what can happen in Norwegian policy? The fact is, if the Right and the Advance Party get multiples, they are very likely to form governments. I think the Progress Party agrees. In Europe today, it is common for the right to cooperate with the centre party – as in Sweden, the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands. Sometimes they have the support of Parliament from an outside right party. In Norway, all the times that the Right has seats in government, it has been like that. I've been against those governments, but I've also seen how the Christian People's Party and the Left have helped to moderate right something and not give them full publicity. On many of the areas, the Progress Party will be the turbo version of the Right, because the party is further out. And I didn't even go into the areas where the Progress Party stands for a completely different policy, for example. environmental and climate policies. So, after three attempts, we have the right to the leader of the Progress Party here in the Chamber will confirm that she believes in man-made climate change. [[The President clubs]] So when it comes to Kårstø...
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1231	It's not interlocking on the clocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1234	I felt a bit of time. I agree with that, but I looked at the clock. Then I will answer briefly when it concerns Kårstø. What's saying about it is in the government statement, and we will come back to that. I was there on a visit just before summer. It is a large and exciting facility, and we will of course come back and report on the follow-up of those projects – just as we do with Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1241	I guess that means that Kårstø is scraped until Mongstad works. That's good policy. I also hope that the Advance Party will be the turbo version of the Right, much more than the SV turns out to be a slack turbo version of the Workers' Party. Fortunately, the party that has won this government cooperation is the Workers' Party, while the partners have become more or less neutralised. It must be the joy of the Workers' Party. In the case of another specific matter, the Barents Sea, Kristin Halvorsen said that she wanted to have the resources in the Barents Sea surveyed for oil and gas. In Lofoten, an entire climate argument is used against extracting oil and gas from there. What is the difference in CO2 from oil and gas extracted in Lofoten versus oil and gas that can be found in the Barents Sea east?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1253	The agreement on the divider line, which has now been concluded, opens up for us to cooperate closely with Russia, including in broader international cooperation, on a range of challenges in the north – it is beyond the borders, fishing resources, energy, monitoring of the sea areas, and others, not least the perspective in relation to a possible opening for more than just test traffic in the north-east pass. So, if, once in the future, we're going to carry out a survey of the energy resources, and if it's going to lead to discussions about activity, then questions I think we might be able to get a few if it's far ahead of time. Then, as in the debate on the Lofoten and the Vesterål, I will be busy that there should be extremely strong environmental arguments at the bottom, that climate and CO2 emissions belong as part of the image, but that the vulnerability of the areas must also be carefully assessed. And it's too early now to address issues that are far ahead of time, which are hypothetical when it comes to possible energy resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1263	Now we're going to try to get the clocks going. Otherwise it'll be a little dunk when it's been a minute, and then the president's a little liberal after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1266	The representative Solhjell was concerned about the fight against poverty, but the result after SV has been in government for five years is that many of the worst-timers have got much worse. There have been more poor and more homeless – although SV has had the richest finance minister of the time for four years. SV has determined that the queue of addicts who need help should be closed. However, the reality is that there are more than 4,000 remaining in line and that the waiting time for drug treatment has increased significantly during the SV's reign. Drug addicts have to wait an average of 78 days for help, and many wait even longer. There's an increase of two weeks in two years. This is dramatic for sick addicts and their families. SV has apologized earlier for not being able to eliminate poverty, as they promised. What will the representative Solhjell say to all those addicts and their relatives who feel that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get help?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1275	I disagree with the description of poverty policy. Although there is a lot left, in this period we have received a significant increase in the minimum pension, which has been completed in two rounds, and which is a lift we haven't seen before. We have increased social assistance rates twice – 10 pst. We have expanded and changed the support system, which is very important to many. We have introduced the qualification programme, which is now being phased in and gradually being used by many – far-reachingly raised when it comes to poverty. In the russian area, we've had an increase in vows, and contractions, but there's no doubt that there's big, extra challenges. It goes on the rise, making sure there's enough institutional space. The level of that will be returned to the state budget tomorrow. But it is also about the policy arrangements, and there has now been a proposal by the Stoltenberg Committee for a number of changes also on the thinking about how we are going to operate the policy, which I think will be very important in the further debate. So I think it's both about the level and the arrangements of the policy towards drug addicts – it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1280	While SV and the government think, there have been several poor people, there have been several homeless people, and there are several addicts who are in line. More than 4,000 people are waiting for treatment. When drug addicts are motivated for treatment, they need help now, not in months. Here the government has failed completely, and even though Solhell is now trying to refute the fact that there are more poor and more homeless and more addicts, there are facts. So humble should Solhjell be to them this applies, that he could actually admit that here the government has invested too little – with its majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1285	I refuted the claim that we have not acted. Then I referred to a series of different, quite comprehensive measures, which have started to work, but which will have an even greater impact in the years to come. So I also said in my post that although much has been done, there is no doubt that there are major challenges in the field of poverty in the years to come. And the drug field points out, with particularly strong needs there too, but it also makes jamming child protection, where there are major challenges. It is a fact that too many people still live on low incomes. When it comes to all those challenges, SV shall be a clear voice to fight to meet them. A number of measures are going to come, and in the field of drugs, we also have a special debate on the policy arrangements, which I believe it is necessary to take. I didn't think we should just go and think – it's an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1290	I want to return to the debate on the non-profit sector which has been brought up here today, and note that the representative, Mr Solhjell and I, are probably quite in agreement that ideal institutions are being pushed from two sides, from a growing public sector and from a commercial market. What's the point of the Christian People's Party is that it's a self-esteem in the non-profit sector – not just by doing tasks that the public needs to do, but by representing values in society that make people engage, and by doing something for others. And it is not the commercial sector that needs exceptions to tender law, it is the non-profit institutions that need long-termity and predictability in this dispute and the exceptions to the tendering legislation provided for in the EEA Agreement. The question is whether one is now prepared to move forward on such a line from the government and from the government parties, so that one can stop the closure of institutions and have jobs that make it possible to actually have such ideal health and social institutions in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1295	Even if a lot has been done for the voluntary sector in the last few years, with a step-up that is now taking place with its own rounds of child protection and with a private school settlement that ensures stability, it says that some, and I have listened carefully to the representative Højbrätten here and elsewhere have said about it. The perspective that the non-profit sector has a self-esteem and is challenged from two sides by the need for stable, long-term agreements with the public, but at the same time being challenged from the commercial ones, is a description I share. That means that we have to look at the long-termity and stability that the high-rise requires, but it also means that we have to look at how the commercial works. In Oslo, both the Red Cross and the Salvation Army have stopped operating hospitals, not because they wanted to end it, but because – when there are three years of supply in the municipality, where the Right and Advance Party govern and the Christian People's Party are a supporting party – they cannot compete, with little capital compared to the heavy commercial ones, nor can they compete because of the low pension costs that commercials have. But I think there is a basis for better cooperation and a broader cooperation on this in the future, according to the representative Højbrätten says in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1301	The left has long been concerned about the situation of asylum seekers in Greece. TV 2 has recently demonstrated in a number of reports that it consistently violates the human rights of asylum seekers and violates its international obligations. The situation is now so serious that countries in Europe stop returning to Greece despite the legal possibility of doing so in the Dublin Regulation. On the TV 2 news on Saturday, the representative Heikki Holmås, who belongs to the same big group as Solhjell, said that it is important to stop sending people and rather deal with the issues here – i.e. So in Norway. I am pleased that today the Left has put forward proposals in the Stortinget that Norway should immediately stop all return of asylum seekers to Greece until the country has improved its procedures and complies with the signed EU directives and the refugee convention. My question to the representative Solhjell is: Does Solhjell agree with his party trap Heikki Holmås that Norway now has to stop all return to Greece, and will the SV's pool support the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1308	There's a story behind that we started returning to Greece a few years ago, and now I've also seen that recently there has been a particularly strong criticism of the returns to Greece from a number of organizations, including from the United Nations team. In that context, there are two things that are important. Firstly, the Minister of Justice has said that we need a greater review of the policy towards children in a number of fields, and I assume that the question of families with children in Greece is included here. But in addition to that, I think it would be wise, with all the criticism that now comes when it comes to Greece and the idea there, that one should reconsider whether we should return asylum seekers to Greece, and go through and get the full picture there. It would make sense if one did it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1313	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1316	The center party celebrates in the year 90 years. It's both right and wrong. That's right because it's been 90 years since our first national meeting in Kristiansand, wrong because our party jumped out and represents the continuation of a movement that has shaped Norwegian society for well over 90 years. Throughout the 1800s, the self-owning Norwegian farmer was central to the democratisation of Norway. From 1814 with the Constitution and until 1913 with general voting rights, there is a red thread in the history of the nation that is about popular government, national construction and equivalency. This legacy is also our legacy. Illustrative enough for the debate that is going on here today, it is only the Right and the Progress Party that does not have its starting point in the Left. 1935 and the crisis agreement between the Bondepartiet and the Arbeiderpartiet represented a new start in Norwegian politics. Much of what followed in the following years is still floor planks in the Norwegian model. The laws on turnover in the primary industries, the main contract system and a careful start on the development of the Norwegian population are evidence of the practical results. The desire for active allocation of social resources, better opportunities for education and development independent of class and geography and a pragmatic relationship with the market and state represents the ideological superstructure. These are the ideology and values of our two parties still share. Why is this important in a drumming debate, some will ask. Well – without knowing where you're from, it's impossible to know where to go. Sometimes questions are asked about our participation in the red-green project. History gives you the answer. After the Progress Party became a big party and has pulled both politics and right to the right, it is important, right and natural for us to follow our historical traditions and values. Our participation in a centre-left alliance should therefore not surprise anyone. Because unlike what many people are trying to tell us, there's a lot of stuff going on. A government by the Right and the Progress Party will certainly pursue a policy that violates Norwegian traditions and the values not least of which the Centre Party is concerned. The ability to develop communities and to live good lives throughout the country has always been our focus. Active policies and wills are required in this room to succeed. It has been present until now and represents a central element of the success of our society. Our total value creation is undoubtedly higher as a result of the fact that people live all over the country and use it every day. However, neither the Right nor the Advance Party has acute competence at the centre–periphery dimension of Norwegian policy. The eradication of Norwegian food production in districts, the removal of the agricultural agreement, large-scale aggregation of municipalities, the centralisation of public revenues and investment, the privatisation of Community resources such as fish and hydropower, and the lack of willingness to active industrial development across the country carry the wrong place for Norway as a whole. A secure society for all requires an active state, an active distribution policy and a regulated working life in order to ensure the individual's security and freedom. It's created a lot of wealth all over the world for the last generation. But where wealth is not distributed and people are not guaranteed a worthwhile life, we also see how wealth becomes the source of division and conflict. The centre party has nothing against people doing well; it's on the contrary important to us all. However, everyone must be involved in contributing to the community that has made success possible. Large tax reliefs to those who have the most are the wrong answers to important questions in our time. On the contrary, an egalitarian society is important because it maintains social capital and trust between citizens. Both democracy and politics have served to seek broad compromise and stable solutions on important issues. Retirement, climate, elderly and foreign; there are many such things, and it is our desire to facilitate solutions in this room as well as the other centers, and sometimes the Right, both contribute and stamp. But where does the Progress Party fit into this picture – the party with which the Right will rule and with which, according to the polls, they can have a majority? They are out of line and have the largest increase in government expenditure combined with the largest reductions in income. They say no to development aid, agriculture and local self-government. They have the strongest attacks on the state as an actor in the development of society and are the parties who point most to what divides, not what gathers, in the debate on how to shape the Norwegian community for the future. At a time when we need predictability and security more than ever, the two largest opposition parties point to chaos and unforeseeable solutions. Either the Progress Party must renounce central parts of its policy, or the Right must cancel the broad similarities and throw the country into an uncontrolled political experiment we have hardly seen before. To rule one country is not about being against the other, it's about presenting your own solutions. It's time they showed off their cards. It is time that both the Norwegian people and we were told how they intend to govern Norway together. We also need to develop new policies, reform and change the Norwegian society in line with time and urgency. Equal opportunities, new activities and value creation, strong communities and good life require solutions in the future other than today. But policy must come from common values and starting points. If you believe in the values and targets, you can cheat on the instruments. Interaction reform is one of the most important things to do in this period. Better solutions for those in need, more services across larger parts of the country and more efficient use of resources are good policies. But other reforms of society, the public sector and state bureaucracy are also correct and necessary. Also in a part that has been close to my own party, the agricultural bureaucracy, there is room for this. I'm sure the government will take advantage of this room. The major issues in the future, on the other hand, are the rich Norway and multicultural Norway. Our wealth, especially the management of petroleum wealth, requires responsibility, seriousness and wisdom, but also gives us enormous opportunities. The multicultural demands clarity as to the values and principles on which social development is to be governed. The answer is simple: Basic and Norwegian law. But it must be communicated wisely and inclusively. British Prime Minister Harold Macmillan once said that ‘a week is a long time in politics’. That truth was confirmed during the weekend, with the latest developments in the Christian People's Party. The political will of party founder Nils Lavik was once summed up as «Christianity, Norwegian judgment and justice for all». He also breathed for district policy and agriculture, cages in the Eksinge Valley as he was in his time. All of this has gone like red threads through the development of the Christian People's Party since: social justice and a social development based on deep Norwegian values. One thing, however, is certain: there are light years between the principles, program and personality of the party founder Lavik and the eccentric Anders Lange. Let's take a look at the legendary meeting at Saga cinema on April 8, 1973. Long ultimatum referred to the name of the party. Otherwise they had to find another one. ‘...not me otherwise. Because I shall have the power of that party!" Fortunately, the heirs of Hagen and Jensen are less self-centered and more socially interested. But they're still a completely different place from the centre of Norwegian politics. The right has been committed to the mast and said that they are willing to cooperate closely and obligingly with the Progress Party, even without the Christian People's Party and the Left. With such a layer, they should lay down Per Brenten's words about carrying staur in memory: it may be difficult 'if the staur begins to crack'. I can add: not least when the tail cracks initially. Then it's hopeless. This debate has also shown so far, and there is no alternative in the traditional sense at present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1371	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1374	It's always interesting to listen to Borten Moe's history description of all the other games. I understand very well that the representative Borten Moe does not want to describe the story to his own party. Others might be able to take the task of doing a deep dive in that respect. I also understand that the central party is a little worried that many people are asking questions about the central party's participation in this government. I record that in Borten Moe's posts there are other parties and others' policies that come into focus. This has also been repeated in the previous line changer where Borten Moe has been up today. He is very concerned that the Advance Party will be in government in 2013 – there are many who are – and the Away Moe is very concerned on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Right. I think there are a lot more people who are very concerned about the Centre Party and their movement in fast-moving to the left in Norwegian policy. It might have been interesting to challenge the representative, Mr Moe, whether he is pleased to be in government with the Socialist Left in terms of transport policy, predatory policy, immigration policy and local self-determination. Does the representative, Mr. Borten Moe, actually feel that this government has gone in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1387	First to the reality description of my post. If Per Sandberg heard the post, he would have found out that most of it was my own party's history I described. As far as participation in this government project is concerned, for my part, I am becoming safer and more confident that this is the option the Center Party needs to fight for, too, in the future. I actually think that we're going to be able to convince an increasingly large part of the Norwegian people that that's the way we have to go, just because the alternative represents thoughts and ideas that I think many of those who are now threatening to vote on something else, in practice won't be supporting. Then you ask if I'm satisfied with the development under this government, in all fields. Let me answer this way: if the centre party had over 50 pst. by the votes and sitting with the government alone, parts of Norwegian policy today would obviously be different. It's not like that. We're representing a little over 6 pst. by the voices and have to make sure to draw society in the direction our voters want, in the best possible way. I stand firm – and I feel that the whole party also does – that basically the choices we have made are correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1396	My challenge to the representative Borten Moe was whether the Centre Party is satisfied with the core tasks the Centre Party is trying to express its commitment to, in particular in the fields of transport policy, predatory animal policy and local self-determination. The Central Party is satisfied with the situation in which Norwegian municipalities have been put through this government, where there has never been any sign of any major deficit or shortages, for example:? So I also registered that Borten Moe in his previous post was actually very concerned about this with common values. Away Moe, like a number of others in the hall today, has been busy linking the Progress Party and the Right up to the most extreme right in Europe. My question to Mr Borten Moe – a representative from the Central Party, who is responsible for this government and common values – is that Norwegian culture is clearly superior to all other culture. Are there common values in the government? Is it collecting, or is it splitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1403	To the last one, I haven't said what Per Sandberg said. After all, he himself was present in the assembly where those words fell, and it was in a context that was about equality, democracy and human rights. I said we didn't have much to learn from the Middle East regimes. I'm still on it. I think it can also sum up what I want to assume is common values in this room. So transportation – well, we lifted the National Transport Plan together with the Advance Party in the period before the previous period. Now we have raised those frames further and far beyond what I think most had to dream of just five to six years ago. In the case of predators, we are promised – and we have achieved – new stock targets for the large predators, a kind of new predator deal. Of course, we are very pleased with that, while we have twisted the predatory management little steps in the right direction for every year that has gone. Local democracy is not least about local road choices. There is no doubt that this government is the government that has given the municipalities the greatest possible economic space for action. Is everything perfect? No, it's not. That's why I stand here and still want to pursue politics. It's to drive society forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1416	In the middle of the big focus that the representative Borten Moe gave to other parties, I also perceived a desire to further develop a welfare state. The right-hand side shares the Central Party's desire to improve the welfare state and ensure that we get jobs and growth across the country. We do this best by having a good organization of how we can not only have a lot to live for, but also to live with, in District Norway. Often it is natural resources that give District Norway the opportunity to have something to live on. One of these options — a great opportunity — lies in the development of small-scale power projects. The Central Party has been running the Oil and Energy Department for five years. It takes more than five years today to receive concessional applications for small power plants. Is there a situation the representative feels that District Norway is satisfied with? Is the Centre Party itself satisfied with such a long treatment period?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1422	The short answer is of course no, but let me also add that there have never been any more permits for the development of Norwegian small power plants before. Never have we had more activity around the exploitation of Norwegian natural resources such as small power plants and green energy around this country. There have never been any more possibilities in total. Then we have a way to make public bureaucracy and the approval process even more effective. An important measure came a short time ago when the county council was given decision-making powers in parts of this complex. I also want to add that we have put a lot of time, energy and prestige into the goal of putting in place a green certification market in common with Sweden, just to stimulate further development of Norwegian small power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1429	I noticed that Ola Borten Moe talked about cheating on the means of achieving the goals in certain situations. Whether this instrument includes the government participation of the Central Party in the Red-Green Government, I don't know, but I agree that what was under Borten Moe's posts, namely that the centre is marginalized in many ways, is a challenge in the political everyday life we have now. The question, however, is how the representative Borten Moe looks at the possibility that the centre, as a common political force, can become stronger on the ground and whether the central party's government participation in the block we now have contributes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1436	To the overall goal: I believe that all the representatives of the centre parties in this room presumptuously share the same analysis, that the centre as political force had been stronger united, that the centre as a political idea had stood stronger together. So the story has led to that it's not like that by date. But history has also shown that there is always dynamism in Norwegian politics. The solutions you have today don't necessarily have to be the solutions you have in the long run. So the Left and Christian People's Party has given us this challenge over the last five years, related to our government participation, and said that it is the main challenges associated with an overall centre of Norwegian policy. But I also think that this issue is important to turn around, because this is not only a choice for the Central Party, it is also for every reason important to focus on the choices that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have to choose, not only for their own party, but also highly likely for Norwegian social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1445	In recent years, the left has made a number of proposals to make everyday life easier for small businesses in the country. There are everything from improved social schemes for self-employed people to measures to ensure more risk capital in the start-up phase, business deductions for individual enterprises and proposals for own Norwegian regulatory councils based on the Swedish success model. Common to all the proposals is that they have been voted down by the Government Parties, including the Centre Party, and although many of the proposals are identical to the program formulations of the Centre Party programme. It's just a little bit sad and a little bit weird. But out of the way I am today, I'd like to give the Center a new chance. The left has a proposal to deal with the Stortinget that we adopt a binding target of 25 p.m. as soon as possible. reduction in the business-to-business form load by 2012. If we succeed in that, we can release over 10 billion. kr for value creation and innovation that is currently disappearing in red tape and form completion. Is this a proposal that the Central Party will support? The question can initially be answered with a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1454	I think everyone in this room shares the goal of reducing the public form field as much as possible. In fact, much has also been done in recent years, not least through Altin, electronic registration, simplification of form and system. As regards the proposal for 25 pst. reduction, I will refer to what Stepe Skei Grande said earlier in this debate, where she just said that there were parts of the government coalition that had too much faith in desktop bureaucracy and adopted goals. Had I thought we could have removed 25 pst. of the bureaucracy through a simple decision in Stortinget — that is, of course. But I think the world is a little bit more complicated than that. Ask your old business minister, Lars Sponheim, if he could reduce the form field by 25 pst. By a simple decision, I think the answer you would get is clearly no. I rather believe that the answer to that question lies in targeted work at many levels and a clearly expressed objective, namely reduced bureaucracy, a smaller form. That's what I share.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1461	The representative, Mr. Borten Moe, spent a lot of time writing about the Central Party's political platform, and it was nice to hear it. There's nothing bad about it in and out of it. I have actually perceived it so that the Borten Moe also has a small blue tab in his political will from time to time, but nevertheless he goes to the frontal attack on the Right and the Advance Party. This has been mentioned earlier today, but there has been a sharp increase in red tape in this period, especially in agricultural bureaucracy. A predatory policy has been implemented that has killed a lot of farmers and their livelihoods. There is an increasing and lack of respect for ownership. There is an over-control in local democracy, so that those who are now in local government soon have nothing they should have done, because the county is going to overdo it. Does the Borten Moe feel that this is a policy and a development that the Center Party is pleased with, or does the stature crack strongly, as has been said earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1470	For the Central Party, of course, there is no goal – and I don't think it is for any party in this Chamber – to increase bureaucracy and increase the time and energy spent on things that you see as useless and meaningless. That's why I said in my post that I think there's room for reform. I said that I believe it is important that we, who are now in government, take the lead in this reform. I think it's important to think about large parts of the public sector, and then of course I think the answers that were right for a while back are not necessarily right in the future. So I'm more than open to looking at new solutions. I mentioned the agricultural bureaucracy in particular. There I said that there was room for simplification, room for efficiency, and then I said that I am absolutely sure that the government for which I am part of the parliamentary basis uses that space. So I think we're going to take seriously what I see as an output from Myraune, which is what is perceived as a lack of local space for action and local autonomy. I think that's a big challenge to make large parts of national service production work. Then there's a need for play.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1477	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1480	I notice that there is a basis for saying that today's debate on the throne is being held while Europe's social stability is under pressure. What we see is that it marches in Europe's capitals, more than it has been in many, many years. Who's marching? Well, that's what can really be called for most people: workers in Europe. What are they marching for? Well, they march for their social rights, so that they do not alone share and bear the burden of the consequences of the financial crisis. They march for that. So in this persuasion, in our political reality, the Norwegian model is discussed in the light of this. We hear the representatives of the right-wing parties here in this debate professing to be the Norwegian model, but they do not go in and out of political agreement with what is the cornerstone of it: the cooperation between the trade movement, the authorities and the business community. That's where the half-squared thing immediately shows up on that topic. There is, of course, a fundamental distinction in Norwegian policy. What the red-green government has done, with the background of the Norwegian model, with it as a foundation, is that, over the past five years, Norwegian welfare has been significantly built up. Just think of something that has not yet been mentioned here, but that I will put my finger on: the political and professional efforts to prevent the effects of globalisation on workers' rights in the Norwegian labour market. What's this about? Of course, it is about something as fundamental as the stability of Norwegian workers and that we should have a good working life. But what's a big paradox for me is that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy does not see and admit that this is also the prerequisite for stable value creation in society, that it is what has done that the gross domestic product for Norway has grown as it has done under the red-green management. I would like to remind you very much of what Erna Solberg said in 2005. She said that a finance minister from SV would contribute to the value creation going down. I just remember it. Developments have gone in a completely different direction, and this cooperation has included: this government, in cooperation with the other parties in the Stortinget, subsequently obtained through a pension reform that is sustainable within the Norwegian economic framework and is the foundation of the future social security for the entire Norwegian population. That's what this is all about. So the Right parliamentary leader here in the debate today says that she thinks it's a little silly that we don't understand that the oil money has created this situation. Yes, it is clear that the oil money plays its role in Norwegian economic reality – no one denies it – but it is primarily that we have managed to use the money in such a way that it has benefited the entire people and that we are able to maintain employment. Moreover, it is to say that if, under pressure from the outer right, the Progress Party, over all years, had their relationship to the use of oil money, we would not have had those resources. And we're not going into coalition with the Progress Party. That's the right thing to do. So these things are closely related, and that's where the nerve in the political debate really goes, and that's where the distinction in Norwegian policy goes. To all of this, the right one says in a lot of ways, squeezing, squeezing. This summer I have had a debate with Røe Isaksen, who is running a notorious whitewashing of Right's political history. Among other things, he said: that he could not understand what was the problem that there should be relatively small differences in Norwegian society. Of course, the cats came out of the bag. Yes, that's what we have in front of us, because we want the whole community to evolve so that everyone is involved. We understand that the political tradition of the Right will continue: they do not want everyone to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1493	The President would point out that the term ‘notorical laundering’ concerning the activities of other representatives does not fall within the scope of good language usage from the Spokesman of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1496	The representative Kolberg and the Progress Party may have a different sense of reality. The representative Kolberg and others from the government parties would like to say up and down that they have built up their well-being. The facts are, unfortunately, something different. Every year since they entered the government premises, they have increased the hospital queues by 20,000, for example, I am concerned that it is building up and expanding well-being. Nor do I think the pension reform will be seen as building up well-being, rather on the contrary. Nor do I believe that the last four years’ considerations about the infrastructure in Norway can be said to build up and build up well-being. I also do not believe that the decline in the public sector in the last four to five years can be seen as a significant improvement in terms of well-being – unfortunately. It's gone in the opposite direction. I listened with excitement to the Prime Minister today. The Prime Minister had 20 minutes at his disposal, and he had 3 minutes and 18 seconds in good hands when he finished his speech. During his speech, the Prime Minister did not mention police or legal certainty in one word. But what the Prime Minister chose to pay great attention was to defend and renew and improve the world's best welfare society. For me, one of the fundamental foundations of a welfare society is security — legal certainty, security of well-being, social networking, work and predictability, and health and care. But not least it's about securing people's lives, i.e. the police and the judiciary. So it wasn't the prime minister at all. I understand that, too, when I now briefly refer to some headlines that have taken place in the media this year: last – on Sunday – 3 October: Trondheim Police Station stops for the audience September 29th: Sunnmore has the lowest police staff – 1 per 1 000 inhabitants April 16th: new summer without police – it is in Geiranger August 11th: police did not move out despite tips September 8th: burglary in progress – police did not move out September 27th: Storberget’s big bluff – 147 new graduates have not got a job March 22nd: the Riksrevision wonders where the money has become of May 11th: the police get slaughter for efforts against organized crime by the Riksrevision’s new red-green politician – 660 fewer positions since 2005 less visible police in Oslo due to the helicopter issue I could have taken a lot more. When the Prime Minister and others do not want to pay attention or focus on the basic – perhaps the most important – to build security and security, do not pay attention to the concept of legal security in view of the abuse that many people are exposed to from the public, and when you do not pay attention to the fact that the police have no presence and are not where security is to be created, then we are moving towards a welfare society that loses confidence and respect for the rule of law and the police. If you don't have the basics, you're going to have to talk in big words about the world's best welfare state, but if you don't have the basics, it collapses. Then I also notice that all of the government parties claim that this government is working daily to reduce bureaucracy. I want the government to contact all municipalities around the country and to ask whether the new Planning and Building Act will reduce or increase democracy, ask whether this Planning and Building Act will increase or reduce bureaucracy. I think the government will get clear answers from all the rapporteurs. The new Planning and Building Act will suffocate local democracy and build an enormous bureaucracy, which in the next round will ensure that growth and economic development in this country continue to decline further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1544	I record that the representative Sandberg is optimistic and positive, as he uses to be. I want to go into some of the numbers that he uses in his post when it comes to the police. You talk about police students. If you take the Police College now: it's graduated 429 – 100 of them didn't exist and 270 have got a job. That means there are 59 out on the labour market. There are 150 vacancies in the police force. So I actually think that the representative Sandberg is painting the situation a little black. Since 2005, we have had 1,600 new annual works within the police and prosecution authorities. We've got the cows down. In the current year, the police budget has increased by 1.3 billion. kr. There has been no cutback in the police budget since Per-Kristian Foss was Minister of Finance, and he was well placed in a government that perhaps the Sandberg representative was a little more excited about than the government we have today. So my question is, does Sandberg want to get back to the time of Per-Christian Foss? The second is, does he deny the hard facts and figures that I'm presenting here now, with an actual increase in the budget and increase in the number of annual works?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1555	No, the Progress Party and Per Sandberg want to go back to the 2005 budget, where the Progress Party, in agreement with the Bondevik government, got an increase of 105 million. kr. The police are still cheering over that year. That's what we want to get back to. Then I have not denied that there has been an increase to the police of 1.3 billion. kr. I have not denied it. But the point is that when you grant 1.3 billion. Kr, is because you have to take it back. In the last 15 years, the police have had almost a hundred new tasks. There has been a population development that no one has taken over. There has been a policy of immigration from this government that has a major impact on the police. There has been a development of crime that has not been in line with the appropriations that have been transferred. So that's not the right thing to say about the vicariate and students -- it's now 120 completely available, and then it's 80 that's got a preliminary vicariate. What the Progress Party is proposing here today is that we give the government permission to say: give all of these a job, and then we get to pay through the budget in 2011. It should be in its place. No one should go free in the situation that we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1564	I think there might be a need to go through some numbers with the Sandberg representative after this meeting, so that we get a proper description of what the situation is, so the Storting uses the same numbers. The representative was also involved in the fight against crime, and then I have a budget question. The last alternative state budget presented by the Progress Party cut shorts in many areas: the Customs and Fee Directorate, the Credit Authority and the Tax Administration, which are important in terms of combating crime. Important measures in the area of integration – UDI, housing, Norwegian education – that I believe are important things to prevent crime, and I believe that at least the Progress Party uses to see the link between immigration and crime. Then I wonder: does the representative Sandberg believe that these cuts that the Progress Party came with will contribute positively or negatively to the fight against crime? What does the Progress Party really want? So I wonder at another thing: which country does Per Sandberg think that Norway should look to who is better at fighting crime than what we are?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1573	That's very interesting. We have great faith that our models will work, as opposed to what has been the situation for the last 10–15 years, where we have seen an unfortunate development. So there's a need for some changes here. And of course, we believe that by reducing immigration to Norway in all possible areas, we will also have less expenditure in the next round, on integration challenges and on crime, etc. But that kind of proceeds calculations isn't at all willing to use this government. We see that with our policies on integration and immigration, we will get a profit, so that we get less expenditure on the other side. At the same time, in our ordinary and primary budgets, we have increased the appropriations made available to the police in a number of areas, including what is going on in criminal matters, where there has been agreement in the Grand Duchy. So I'd like to give a talk about which countries to look at. My committee has just been in Poland, and it has been very interesting to see that the Norwegian state, this government, spends a billion a year building up a modern and strengthened police force in Poland. Then I come home and see that the police station in Norway's third largest city is closed. It's a paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1580	Sandberg's leader did not answer a question that was asked here earlier today, namely, whether climate change is man-made, so I'm going to give Sandberg the chance to try on behalf of the party. Siv Jensen said that we don't all think that's what we don't think all climate change is man-made. Well, no one has claimed either. The question is whether there is a link between dangerous climate change and human activity and greenhouse gas emissions. I see that the Progress Party has a very strange approach to this issue. It's like clinging to the hope that climate change isn't really man-made, but that these are natural variations, and that, as a politician, you can't do anything to protect the population. It's a completely opposite approach to what you normally have. If all the research tells you that you can do something about a problem, then as a politician, you'd like to say, OK, then I'll do everything I can. Instead, the progress party does the opposite. They say, no, unfortunately, we don't believe in it; we don't want to do anything to protect future generations from being deprived of their livelihood. How's that hanging out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1587	Well, it's pretty simple, if you just want to pay attention to what the Progress Party actually does. The Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals in this process, which I am convinced would have a much greater impact on the environment, but also on climate change emissions. But what is the intention of SV and the state of this government is to create a picture that we need to have higher taxes and taxes – to punish people the most – because you believe in a certain development. I continue to record – in 2010 – that they show that they are at odds with what are the main challenges in terms of climate. But what I am convinced of is that we are facing climate challenges. Then the Progress Party has a different approach to how we're going to meet these climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1592	Another approach, therefore, is to systematically try to undermine the research we have today, which shows that we are likely to face man-made climate change that will change our globe in very fundamental ways, and which will particularly affect future generations, but which the world's poor are already hit by very hard. It's grossly unsolvable. If we go in and look at what the Progress Party is actually doing, it is also that they are voting against all the measures we are trying to achieve to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions here at home, as well as that one believes that Norway should not be a driver to get things done internationally. They have also agreed to make a fundamental change to Norway. The Baltic countries, Thatcher, Reagan, are being promoted – Per Sandberg’s leader. So I also want to ask: is that what you see, and that is what people should see to get an idea of where the Progress Party wants to bring Norway forward in terms of the environment, but especially in terms of distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1599	I think Norway has a lot to learn from a number of other countries. Not least in Denmark, I think we have a lot to pick up on when it comes to meeting the huge challenges that we all agree on when it comes to welfare. At some point, Norway also has to make some decisions in relation to the policy pursued in relation to, for example: welfare schemes and benefits. We can't continue the race that SV and this government have in relation to it. At some point you meet yourself in the door. I believe it is completely wrong to say that the Progress Party does not justify a wish for us to have a change in behaviour in relation to the environment and climate. But we do it in a positive way, where we get the movement that is necessary to change behaviour in relation to the environmental and climate challenges. This government wants to punish, while we want to do it in a positive way, so that we get people and business with us to take the changes that are necessary, and to prevent and be leading was in relation to the challenges we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1606	The basis of the welfare society is people's security in order to live up to their years of work and economic conditions. I would challenge the representative Sandberg on a case concerning the interests of employees in a number of sectors of Norway, whether or not they are organised in the LO and the Norwegian regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts, which is required to be amended by the monitoring body of the EEA Agreement, ESA. The regulation requires that: ‘providers of services, or contractors of public works or works, must guarantee employees their wages and conditions of employment at the level of the collective agreement in force in the industry, or — what is otherwise normal for the place and profession in question’. The centre party is a member of an active nation state, for it allows the individual security and freedom. The regulation is important to ensure a decent working life in Norway for a wide range of workers who keep the wheels running in Norwegian society and who regularly have weak labour market power. To ABC News July 23, 2009, the Förskrittspartiet Kåre Fostervold said: ‘There is no better principle than the principle of competition. Free competition is more important than maintaining pay levels in Norway! [[...]] We have nothing to do with requiring non-resident companies to pay Norwegian salary." The question is: Will Fostervold's view of working life improve the situation for most people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1629	Now I am dealing with what the Progress Party has laid down in its programme, and the job that the Advance Party's big group is doing in this house. I do not conceal that having standards in terms of equal pay for everyone, no matter what business it may be, is destructive to competition. I believe that at some point there will be a directive from the European Union that will strike this regulation in some way. Because at some point it will force itself through a directive which requires workers from Schengen countries to be allowed to take pay and working conditions from their country of origin. So Norway has done a few things in advance of what you might think is going to stop it. Then we have done ourselves a bear service, because, unfortunately, before one comes to a common regulation in the EU in this field, Norwegian workers will be out of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1635	I note that it is a difficult question for the representative Per Sandberg to answer if climate change is man-made. But there is another question I want to ask: I register that there are several deposit representatives from the Progress Party, among others. The representatives Vosskensen and Fredriksen, who warn the Christian People's Party against changing the attachment paragraph and against allowing non-Christians to join the Christian People's Party. Then my question is: this is an area where any change will result in a Christian People's Party becoming a little more similar to the Progress Party, as far as I know, the Progress Party does not have a confirmation paragraph. Is it so that the Progress Party will, on a general basis, warn the Christian People's Party against becoming a little more similar to the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1642	I have no reason to interfere in the inner relationships of the Christian People's Party and will never do so, just as I would have wanted the Christian People's Party and other parties to stay away from the inner conditions of the Advancement Party. If the Christian People's Party's strategy selection at some point ends up dissociating from the profession paragraph, probably the Christian People's Party's strategy selection has made it out of broad and good judgment. I have no reason to participate in such a debate. But of course, we are very happy every time the Christian People's Party signals that they agree with us in politics, just as the Progress Party wants to be strong in those areas where we believe that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party agree. I believe that we are in a number of areas, which unfortunately are not part of the debate, but rather the debate where there is disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1647	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1650	I have understood in several red-green speakers, most recently the representative of Kolberg, that it is the red-green, and in particular the Workers' Party, who have the exclusive right and monopoly of saying something about the welfare society and the Norwegian model. Nevertheless, I allow myself some considerations about what will happen in ten to fifteen years, when the state's revenue is no longer greater than its expenditure. In that case, the Right believes that there are some areas we should look at, especially those values that never disappear in this country, namely human capital. This means that Norwegian schooling and education must be strengthened, that the basic skills of the students must be emphasised, and that the skills of teachers must be improved. Better knowledge and increased emphasis on research and development will provide the basis for what we will live on in the future. But then we also have to have a business that works and that is to be the basis for the value creation of the welfare society to be built on. It is then necessary to improve the conditions for SMEs in particular. Small businesses in this country will always be the large majority. 95 pst. of those in the private sector, working in those types of enterprises. Then there are essentially simplifications that are important. It does not help in entrepreneurial education unless the ideal world outside is designed to make this work, and it is not, in practice, today. I'm not talking about support measures. I am talking about simplifications in stock laws, in relation to auditing obligations, in accounting law, and not least reductions in the form field, where it is now time to set courageous goals, as has been done in our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark. And then the tax system has to inspire institutions, and then of course I think first and foremost of the property tax, which imposes taxes on businesses before they make money, and when they don't make money. Secondly, it is not just to increase value creation and revenue in order to safeguard the welfare society. We also need to use the revenue we have in a rational way. There are a number of surveys and comparisons with other countries that show that we are the most important — at least far ahead — in terms of public consumption, while our results are no more than average, especially when we think about school and health. The answer is a more efficient public sector, more rational solutions, more targeted use of taxpayers' money. The right will facilitate more competition for the provision of services in the public sector. We believe that it provides both the rational use of resources and the quality of supply, and we do not believe that better and wider cooperation between the public and private sectors, perhaps in particular health and transport, will result in an economic optimisation of resources. It gives diversity, it gives choices. Then it is depressing to hear the Prime Minister almost dismiss this today with market thinking. Then we also have to take care of the human resources that the nation has. We have low unemployment, but we have almost 700,000 people who are out of work and who do not participate. The Prime Minister's single line on that was more inclusion, nothing more concrete. The worst thing is that there's a constant access of youth to this number. This problem, because there is a labour force that we need, together with an ever-increasing public cost level, is one of the real threats to the welfare state. It's along these lines we'll build our policies to secure the welfare society in the future. Then it is strange to hear the Labour Party's parliamentary leader today make his intervention without talking about education and research, without talking about the conditions of business in the future, without even mentioning the 700,000 who are outside the labour market, without mentioning the need we have for rationalisation and efficiency in the public sector. Instead, she used, and so have other speakers, the time to frighten with the Right and any future partners. What's scary is if you don't want to do anything with the areas that I've now been in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1665	In many national assemblies in the world, the big issue is how to cut public spending in order to keep a certain order in the economy after the financial crisis. Fortunately, we're in a completely different situation. We took the right action at the right time and managed both to secure finance and credit for the business community and to initiate counter-cyclical measures that kept people in work, while at the same time taking care to solve important tasks. What was left of the opposition while the financial crisis was at its worst, namely that it was too late, has proved to be the right dose at the right time, and it is with great relief that we can look back at the steps that were needed to ensure that we have Europe's lowest unemployment. That doesn't mean we don't have any significant challenges ahead of us. Internationally, there is now a considerable concern that a lost generation of young people can be faced with such high levels of youth unemployment that many people will have problems getting into the labour market and perhaps forever encounter challenges. But we also have some significant challenges, because although we have low unemployment, the future labour market is going to look different than it is today. There's going to be little space for people who only have primary education, and we're going to have a big need for people with high school. We have many challenges on the knowledge side, but in particular three that I would like to add some comments to. First, of course, we need knowledge to solve what is the most important challenge of the future. We are facing a youth wave – it is not as big as the wave of old age – we have many challenges to solve, we have climate challenges, we have industrial development in the cold water of a new and sustainable economy, where Norway needs to be in place, and we need action in the field of research and higher education. However, many people are not aware that the biggest challenge we face in relation to the labour market of the future is that we recruit too few for a professional profession and are going to have too few skilled workers. I am surprised that business is not much more concerned about this. We can be in that situation if we don't quickly manage to do something about this, that significant parts of our own generation of young people can be dissatisfied too early, while we rely on Poles and Swedes to do the jobs for us. Honor them for that, they are warmly welcome, all of them, but at one time the economic situation in both Sweden and Poland may be such that they want to go to Poland and Sweden and do the job for which they are qualified and which they are doing today in Norway. Then the Norwegian business community and the Norwegian welfare community will have a significant problem because we lack professionals to do the job. The second is that there are too few graduates in the first five years after high school — approximately. 70 pst. Today, and it's been like this for 15 years. We know that if we can increase the implementation from 70 pst. To 80 pst, we're saving as a society between 5 billion. and 9 billion. kr per year coal. But what we have in particular the effect is that we find almost no young unqualified people who have completed secondary education, almost no young unemployed, almost no young people on social assistance who have completed secondary education. That is why we have initiated systematic cooperation between the states and the state, following the model of how we got full child care coverage, much closer to and with common plans and exchanges of experience. We can achieve a lot more in this area, both because the future needs labour and because it has such a big impact on the individuals involved. There are far greater social differences in Norway than many like to believe. The issue of non-response does not start in secondary education; it starts in kindergarten. It starts at least in high school. We are now running and preparing a big message about the situation in high school, which I am in close dialogue with students and others who have their daily work in high school. It is one very clear challenge we get from there – we need to have a more practical approach to theoretical subjects and a more relevant, motivating high school to keep 13-, 14- and 15-year-olds under the pressure to be hungry and thirsty about knowledge and the challenges of the future. Finally, I just want to say that the full child care coverage has meant, is that we now have an opportunity to give all children a completely different starting point than what we've had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1687	Now Kristin Halvorsen was able to talk a little bit about the kindergartens, and that's who I want to bring up here. It has stormed around the private kindergartens this summer, and the regulations that the council threatens to send out have given frustration to the private kindergarten owners. But not enough – in a few months, one of the biggest transfers to the municipalities, where kindergartens have been earmarked, reaches 27 billion. kr enters the framework of the municipalities. It's the Progress Party very worried about, especially when we know that the government hasn't managed to get up to 100 pst. equality between private and public kindergartens. When we were able to read in the evening post last Monday that the State Secretary to the Council says that the new framework funding for kindergartens will clearly lead to differences between kindergartens around the country, it is worrying. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be no difference between the day-care centres and the year-on-year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1694	It is absolutely right that we are facing the greatest inclusion of some earmarked grant into the local authorities that we have ever faced. It's like what's been in the cards all the way to the children's hail lift, that at the time we had full coverage, it was the municipalities that had to take responsibility for kindergartens, which they are responsible for schools and care for the elderly. The switch from ringing to criteria within the framework funding system means that municipalities will not get a crown for crowns as they have previously received in relation to kindergartens. But I think we've found a good system. We have to watch it well, because kindergartens are obviously vulnerable in the situation that is. What would make them even more vulnerable was if we didn't also look at how to prevent single examples of gross benefits from the kindergarten sector. When the kindergartens are going to fight with schools and care for the elderly around the municipalities around the krona, there are no municipal politicians who would be able to keep a high level of childcare if you saw that this money went to private profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1701	State councils were concerned with high school drop-outs as a significant social problem. In particular, the problem is in the field of vocational education and training and among those who do not receive an apprenticeship. So is this harvest. A lot of people don't get what they want. The result is probably they're dropping out. On a question from the Right in June on progress in the work of a new social contract to provide more apprenticeships, the Council of State answers: ‘I propose to invite all the main social associations to work together without delay. The process is anchored with a first meeting with all the parties to which the Prime Minister and I together invite. Work will be undertaken to complete a contract by 15 October.» I am well aware that the matter is now on the spot resting, three and a half months after this answer. How will the Minister of Knowledge explain today that two weeks before the deadline set by the Council of State itself, a meeting of the parties has not yet been held to establish a new social contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1713	I am happy to have this question, because I need to inform Stortingen about the arrangements for this work. We will not reach it within the time limit that I have previously informed Stortinget about. It's because, after looking at the social contract that was concluded 15 years ago, I see that there's a need to go through whether we should not think a little bit differently about the design of the social contract in terms of the way forward. In particular, because the business community itself needs so much more searching for the professions and their implementation, it is a topic that should be included in the discussion on how to participate and raise the status of the professions, which was not as clear 15 years ago. So this is a matter that I work closely with. Fortunately, we have a little bit more apprenticeships this year than we had at the same time last year. But it is absolutely essential that we be able to achieve good cooperation here, because so many of those who start high school in the professional field depend on an apprenticeship to be trained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1720	We are pleased that the Christian People's Party will finally get the impression that the high school is now on the go. I'm satisfied that this work is in progress, and then we'll see what the content is. Last week I was again on an exciting visit to one of the two ships for high school that we have in Norway, which are ‘Gann’ and ‘Sea Course’. They missed the Council of State – they had sent an invitation – but she probably gets a chance to come again. They can show that no one has dropped out in the last year. They have hundreds of applications from students who want to go in. They receive telephone calls from counselors, parents, and others who want their pods to receive this offer. But now this offer is really in danger, because it is more expensive to run a school that should be both on land and at sea. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the Private Schools Act, so that this type of school is also maintained, which will be an important contribution to the completion of its education by several of those spoken about by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1728	I think this might be a small issue tomorrow, too, when the government budget is presented. There's no doubt that the schoolships are doing a very good job. They are able to recruit young people and give them challenges that they may not have previously been motivated to accept. I hope that we can have a good funding system for this in the future. So I hope that that way of working much more can also be a model for the county offer and the public school, because a lot of students need a more practical approach to theory. I think Dagrun Eriksen agrees with me that the track on which the Right is currently, namely to reduce the theory requirements in the professional field, is to undermine the status of the professions in the future. Making sure that there are better, more varied and clearer professional approaches to the theory is the way to go. That's what I'm concentrating on. We're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1737	The last time I had a line exchange with the council, she was a little annoyed that I cared about small things, namely bananas. The 235 million. kr as it means, I won't rip up. But when I left the pulpit, I thought it was actually a little bit positive, because if the council believes that 235 million. kr is small money, it has to be a huge effort on the things we agreed on. I'm not going to ask the Council of State to disclose anything in the morning, either, sail if I'm a little worried that it's primarily the class environment that you focus on when it comes to learning. The left has always focused on getting more and better teachers into Norwegian school. If I do not want to ask for leakages, I would like to ask if the Council of State can reach out a hand to the Left, so that we can agree on the escalation that we have proposed in Document No. 8:145 S for 2009–2010, to get more and better teachers, with vocational training in the subjects in which they teach.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1744	It is quite obvious that the success factor in school is motivated and knowledgeable teachers who also have the necessary authority to be natural leaders in classrooms. We know that's a success factor. Fortunately, we have made a strong commitment to continuing training. We have some challenges with regard to how we have designed this continuing training offer, because we have more capacity than we can use. So it's an important topic for me how we're going to get better at this. We'll get back to the rest of this tomorrow. There is no reason to disagree between the learning environment and the results in school. We have more recent research that shows that the schools that are capable of having a good learning environment are also able to work in such a way that social background, minority background and other conditions that we know lead to differences in education are less important. And then two words about bananas finally. The rounds I now have with high school students show that there are a lot of high school students who eat nothing but these bananas during a school day. So thanks to a banana, they keep cooking out the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1753	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1756	The pillars that together form the Norwegian model have not come about by themselves, and they have far from been the subject of political consensus through construction. Step by step, the labour movement has advanced the decent and organized working life that has provided the basis for our well-being. The right-hand side, we've dragged us all the way. Today, politicians from all parties in the rhetoric will say that they end up on the Norwegian model and defend the Norwegian welfare state. The truth is that many of them work daily to tear it down into the practical policy. The Norwegian model is not a menu where you can pick the dishes you prefer. It's as well-known as the sum of the ingredients that make up the cake. Without yeast or without flour, there is nothing special to serve, and the Right and Advance Party will bake cake with only hot water. High levels of employment have not come without welfare policy schemes such as kindergarten, father's allowance and other measures that got women out of work. Our competitive economy requires strong tripartite cooperation. These are elements that form the Norwegian model but against which the right side has contested. I wonder at the Right's claim that it's those who are defenders of, and who have the answer to, the welfare state's challenges. The right-wing spokesperson has even identified the Workers' Party as the main threat to the Norwegian model and to the welfare state's future – the Workers' Party, in fact. What I'm going to give to the Right is that the Norwegian model is threatened, but it's always been. Because never have the elements that make up the system, which the movement of workers has fought for, been political peace. The right side has always argued that the welfare state and community should be built down, in response to the challenges we always face. And the right-hand side has always claimed that the Norwegian model has been in crisis and that it stands for fall. In my short 30-year life, it's been in crisis every day. It was a crisis throughout the 1980s, it was a crisis throughout the 1990s, and it is a crisis now. Globalisation of the economy, more open borders, migration patterns, financial crisis – there is no way of what has constantly threatened the Norwegian model, and put it at risk of tilting over. But we have survived these crises because we have always managed to renew, improve and strengthen. Yes, today we are in a unique position. We are a paradise in a sea of unemployment and crisis, with a social model that the rest of the world sees as an example. We're stronger than ever. We are facing major challenges. We've always done that. The three main challenges we are now facing, which social democracy must solve, are linked in a chain and can be summed up in the fact that we will succeed in solving poverty problems and preventing poverty by making working life more inclusive, so that we can get more hands to work to deliver the care services that the elderly deserve in the future. Although Norway has less poverty than any other society, people are excluded. It's unacceptable. Work is the way out of poverty. We're going to get more from passive benefits into activity. Too many people are out of work and want to enter, but meet a job that doesn't have room for them. We need these people, and these people need us. Demography means that we will experience labour shortages in order to solve welfare problems in the future. We need more hands at work to keep the wheels going, and to be able to solve care tasks in the future. The challenges of the welfare state and the Norwegian model are not met by the right-hand side – by building up parts of it. At the latest in 2004, the right-hand side tried to destroy decent work by destroying the Working Environment Act. They are voting against all our measures against social dumping, and we know who has to pay for the tax havens; it's not just farmers and people in the Third World; it's all the country's people who are going to have to pay in the form of a weakened welfare state. So when the right hand side and the right hand side and their representatives talk about the Norwegian model being threatened, it is. The only real acute threat to the Norwegian welfare state and to the Norwegian model is a Right and Advance Party in government that is ready to tear it down, bit by bit, with a practical policy that we are going to hear a lot about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1769	Today's debate is important, but it gets a little caricature when you get so many black-and-white images of the opposition's position, but actually also by the government itself. On the one hand, we've heard Ola Borten Moe from the Center Party talk about this government having a significant center orientation. But in the post just ahead, SV's Solhjell talked about how radical this government was. It is not possible to have one leg in each of these camps without prescribing. That's what the government has done, with so much squabbling we've seen in the last five years. But the picture of what the parties stand for is not as black and white as many people imagine. The Norwegian model is not such that the red-greens are the only ones that stand for cooperation between the authorities and the employee/employer, while the opposition is most likely to get a franc where there is conflict and no conversation. It's not like the red-green government is to provide all the good public services, while the opposition is only thinking of giving tax relief, where the money, in the red-green eyes, just one day of the day, is spraying and giving nothing, no matter how they're used. Such a debate is both false and meaningless. Of course, most people in Norway, and not least in the United Kingdom, want to create the best possible society for everyone. It's not like we have a class-shared society like you'd like to have in the 1800s, and you still see it in some other countries, where the parties represent only one class and finished it. The differences are about how to provide welfare services. What role should the private sector play in this function, and how should it stimulate economic growth and prosperity? Should the State govern or facilitate? There's the ideological difference, and it's important to discuss it. I am concerned about developments, as the Workers' Party's plan on a presentation showed, that the only sectors which have had an increase in employment during the red-green financial crisis package are the public sector, including the municipal sector, plus oil extraction, which is cozy, but which is out of line with the policies they themselves believe they stand for. It's not a way to create a sustainable Norwegian model. If that's the red-green brilliance of the Norwegian model, I don't want to be in it. I want to be part of a society that creates better conditions for everyone, but that has to include tax relief, tax policy, industry and energy policy to create the values before you start bragging about how to tax to create a large public sector and give trade union movement a monopoly on how to design the work environment law. I would like to mention three important areas of activity. It's not the only three, but there are three that I think are important. First, it's the industry. We need to have competitive conditions, so that industry will choose to produce in Norway and taxes to Norway rather than move out. It is a paradox that the government travels with three government councils and the Crown Prince to open industrial plants abroad, which one would not be allowed to build in Norway. One has to ask: what does the Norwegian government do to stimulate industry to invest in Norway? In central Norway, there is a project called Ironman, with Swedish investors who want to invest in Norway, but they do not get access to the necessary framework conditions. Then we have a government that removes the value creation from Norway instead of including it. I will give tribute to the government in one area, and that is the clarification that came about that Norwegian industry will be allocated CO2 allowances in line with the EU. There's SV going on a painful defeat. It is only one and a half years since SV in this room said that Norway should not give a free quota at all from 2013. They have now had to go back on that. There the government must be praised for cutting through. I hope it intersects in many other areas. So to the oil industry. The Lofoten-Westerålen must have a political clarification. I respect the presentation of the management plan. I hope it will be submitted early, so we get a decision before the election campaign in 2011, but I am now beginning to fear that the government will train the case, so they can go into the election campaign without taking a stand, hoping not to lose voters. The same is true of the Barents Sea. When the parliamentary leader of SV, Mr Vegar Solhjell, in this Chamber today has said that the decision on petroleum activities in the Barents Sea is very far ahead of time, I am concerned because it is one of the things we are going to discuss in the management plan. The Barents Sea east is part of the management plan – the government itself has said so. Then one should come and be able to make some decisions already in a year and a half. Finally, on the power sector. It is very good that there have been green certificates, and I am very happy that the government has turned around in the last year in terms of the principles of what will be the basis. They have now taken the position of the Progress Party. It does not, however, prevent the fact that we have lost five years to the fact that in this area too the government argued internally before they were able to decide. We see the same thing in the powerline case and in the small power industry's relationship to green certificates, and not least in Mongstad. If the government had been able to cooperate with the opposition, we would have found more robust solutions and would have come much further in these areas – rather than having its own internal arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1791	We also see today that there is an ideological debate about the welfare society, in which we try to make this a debate between the right and the left. We are once again seeing that the Prime Minister, the Labour Party parliamentary leader and others play a role in this by referring to and defending the so-called Norwegian model. What is the Norwegian model? Is there a welfare state dominated by municipal and state monopolies? Is there an uncritical use of market economy and competitive outsourcing? What is the history of the Norwegian peace society? The Norwegian welfare community has its origins in the fact that people saw sickness, suffering and poverty and took responsibility for the community on their own. It was developed primarily through ideal and religious actors. Examples can be mentioned in flanges; whether it is the potato performances of the 1600s, the Church's Bymition, which started its work in 1855 or the Blue Cross, which started its work for addicts a hundred years ago. This work started before social service, and Nav saw the light of day, before hospitals, before municipal medicine, before public health and health stations. Why did these people do this? Was it because it was socio-economically profitable? Was it because it paid off for society and working life that people were healthy and able to work? Was it because you wanted to dampen rebellion, or maybe even wanted to get votes at the next elections? No, they did it because they cared. Then it followed the government and built up state and municipal services, which have since lived side by side with the volunteers, and which continue to form the foundations of the Norwegian welfare community. That's the welfare society we have today. The societal forces that cared about the 1600s, 1700s and 1800s live, and they didn't just care, they still care, and they're there every day and make Norway a warmer society. This is the Norwegian model, not the unilateral emphasis of the left on public monopolies, where the state and the municipality are to provide everything, and not the unilateral emphasis of the right on competitive outsourcing and market mechanisms. The Norwegian model is public welfare services that live side by side with voluntary, non-profit organisations, which provide both diversity and every day provide the Norwegian welfare community with a vital contribution of commitment and care, where the bearer and the only motive is value-based: giving something to others. We are told that there is a critical situation among the non-profit organisations and their institutions. HSH has stated that these actors will be gone in five to ten years with today’s policy. In the area of child protection, some have started talking in two years. This is because the state is constantly demanding that its own sites be filled in only before anyone else's use, and this is due to tendering and market mechanisms. There are interesting signals that have come from the SV parliamentary leader in this situation. The Christian People's Party has invited to a settlement. And that's not just a strong wish, it's actually a virtue of necessity for us to take care of these important qualities of our welfare society. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made. In terms of child protection as such, we don't need to spend more time on it – it's clearly described in this room before. When it comes to calling for action, we still need to spend time on it. And as far as municipal child protection is concerned, there is no longer any doubt that the designation of municipal funds is required to get the escalation we want. The Christian People's Party is a value-oriented non-socialist centre party. Where, first and foremost, the right and left sides make the ideological debate a matter of different emphasis between individual and collective, Christian democratic ideology begins with a completely different starting point. Human vision, human dignity must be at the heart of a political ideology along with the question of what values should characterize a society. A warmer society is created by letting human dignity be the foundation wall, and where we build a society where it is not either the individual or the collective that is the outlet, but the individual as the community-seeking being, which naturally forms a community of family, community, organisation and enterprise, and where we give space and freedom for those communities to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1814	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1819	I noticed today that Siv Jensen was startled, or a little embarrassed, because the Christian People's Party allowed itself to repeat her – respect for such courage stands. Then I registered that it almost went into a bit of a good talk when the red-green replicators were going to have a line on the Højbråten. It got me in a bit of a good mood. Then I hear Hope now keep his post. That's what I'm asking -- because I'm sure the Christian People's Party really cares -- whether it's not good to also have with the privates, especially the ideals, to solve some of the welfare issues. But whether it's in public or it's in private, it's usually the public that pays. Is it not Hope that significant revenue losses due to tax relief will also kick legs under these offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1826	The Christian People's Party presents its own, well-balanced alternative state budgets that show the relationship between revenue and the financing of public welfare, whether it is offered through private solutions or public funds, so I'm not afraid of that balance. The proposals of other parties for tax relief may be replied to by themselves. I still want to add, since the representative addresses the issue, that also in this area, like the other I affected in my post, I think a very artificial distinction is made between the fact that even in these issues there is a great debasement between the right and the left. If that's the case, for example. as several representatives of the red-greens have stated today, that tax measures are needed for the development of hospitals, you can increase the taxes accordingly so that you can put in place the places where you live. The example simply illustrates that there is a balance between value creation, income and the building of public welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1833	It is that when we record that parties as we seem to have it in common with us that they care about people and are concerned that everyone should be involved, and we see an icelet of good prognosis, we kind of try to draw a little bit. That's why I'm saying it's been a good day. And it's tough for the Christian People's Party to cooperate with the right parties. When they had to cooperate only with the Right, we saw the rather brutal attacks on workers' rights that they had just before they left in 2005. If the Progress Party is to become a partner – to say it like that: we don't want you so bad. If this is something that disturbs the night sleep a little bit, we're ready for a good dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1841	In the Christian People's Party we sleep very well at night, and it's simply for the reason that it's Christian People's Party national meetings that decide our cooperation choices. So we're just cooperating with whoever we want, and then we're choosing it from how we get the most out of our own program, our own solutions and our own tax policy, if that's what was the starting point here. Otherwise, I would like to respond to Hagebakken's invitation to point to common points of contact in terms of values in the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. This also shows the debate that we have in several areas. And when the opportunities are right, we also cooperate with the Workers' Party. We have done so over the years in the context of budgetary cooperation and important welfare reforms. We want to do it again when it serves our policy. That is why we have today invited a settlement, including with the Workers' Party, to take care of the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1848	The Christian People's Party is a party that talks a lot about that they're occupied with values. I want to ask questions about it. In important value issues, I experience that the Christian People's Party is closer to SV than the Advance Party. In terms of balancing, reducing differences, as the Christian People's Party calls neighbourly love, I experience that the Christian People's Party is closer to SV. In terms of international solidarity and that we as a rich country in the world are going to spend a lot of money on aid, I feel that we are closer to each other than the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are doing. When it comes to climate policy, as the Christian People's Party will call it the trustee, I feel that we are close together, while the Progress Party is away from the Christian People's Party. In some questions, on the question of Israel's occupation and on the question of homophiles should have the opportunity to marry each other, I feel that the Progress Party is closer to the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1855	Like KrFs, it's very nice to be present in the debate today. We are constantly receiving confirmation that other parties are very close to our policies. I regret that I did not take the workpiece with me on the inner pocket. But I stress that in my article I also referred to how Christian-democratic ideology takes a different starting point than what both the right and the left are doing, because we are taking on the basis of values and human vision. Therefore, the question is not whether we agree most with SV or with the Progress Party, but which of the others agrees most with us. That's the starting point for us. I like to share Holmås’ analysis that in many areas we have the same values as SV, not least related to national and international distribution. With regard to family policy, we also see clear differences, not least with regard to having confidence in the family’s ability to choose solutions for their daily lives. In other areas, we're also separating from the left-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1864	I have a party, and I have the job block on my inner pocket – right down. I'm open to anyone who wants to join SV, if not through a recruitment campaign. But next to that, I just want to move on to the question. For one can weigh the two things up against another, look at the values that the Christian People's Party has in common with the Advance Party in the specific matters, against all the matters where the SV and the Christian People's Party are closer together, in relation to international solidarity, and also in relation to local politics. Now we're going into a local election, and the Progress Party has programmed that they want all of the things in the care of the elderly and school that are currently happening around and run by the municipality, the state should take responsibility for, both funding and operation, as far as it's desirable. With regard to alcohol policy, where we are in favour of a sensible alcohol policy with high taxes and limited access, we agree more. Will it not be that the Christian People's Party will have more impact on its policy in cooperation with the SV than with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1871	The Christian People's Party is a centre party – a value-based, Christian-democratic centre party – that does not base its policy primarily on analyses that everything should be built up around the collective. Nor do we base our policy on an analysis that everything should be built on the individual. But we build our policies on a human vision and a clear view of what values we think should characterize our society. Therefore, we will always seek solutions with those who agree most with us. These solutions are sometimes found on the right side and sometimes on the left side. But Norwegian political history also clearly shows that many of the best solutions are at the centre. Holmås himself mentions good examples of where we differ from the left – in business policy, in value issues, questions about caring for the Christian cultural heritage, the freedom of choice of the family – which makes this balanced. We're safe in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1878	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1881	The debate of the throne is an opportunity to discuss the state of the Kingdom, but also important choices forward. I believe that in politics it is important to keep an eye on what concerns people in Norway, what concerns voters, and what they evaluate us every four years, namely the results. And in the area that our government has said, the most important thing is that people should be able to work, that unemployment should be kept low, that we should strengthen value creation and govern Norway safely through an international financial crisis – yes, there is nothing less than formidable. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We have higher employment today than we had in 2005, even after the financial crisis, and we are far ahead of our neighbouring countries in terms of the development of employment and value creation. Consider the following: Norway is the world's 116th largest country in population, but we are the world's 22nd largest economy in absolute numbers. So it's not just that we're one of the richest countries in terms of income per. It's a population, but we're one of the world's largest economies. Last year we even passed Sweden as the Nordic largest economy in some statistics, even with half as many people. This doesn't come of itself. It comes from clear political choices. It comes from an active state. It comes from a sound economic policy that ensures that long-term value creation, interest rates, exchange rates – the important framework conditions for business – are such that value creation is strengthened. If right-wing policy was better for business than a red-green policy, the results from 2001 to 2005 should have been much better than they have been in the last five years. It's not like that. On the contrary, employment has grown much more rapidly in these years than it had under a bourgeois government, even with the Progress Party on the team. Not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector, employment growth has been higher. And while other European countries are struggling with record unemployment, the EU has 10 pst. unemployment, while the United States has 9.5 pst. unemployment, while our neighbouring country dreams of and hopes for unemployment down to 8 pst. Thus, by 2012, we are down to a lower level of unemployment than in the years 2001–05. When the financial crisis threatened and we continued to discuss and fear how this would affect Norwegian business, the government acted. We took the situation seriously and put in place strong measures to strengthen the framework conditions of businesses. At each crossroad, we got criticism from the opposition. In the autumn of 2008, when we made the state budget, the message was that we had to hold back and watch out and not spend too much oil money. We did not listen to the advice, but we had a relatively offensive budget. It turned out to be absolutely right. When the crisis package arrived in January, it was «too little» and «too late». Once again we met quite exactly where we were going to be. In this year's budget, we have also created a level that turns out to have met business and the needs of the total economy quite precisely. The growth outlook for the Norwegian economy has improved from last autumn. The GDP of mainland Norway continues to increase, order intake increases both for exports and the domestic market, and we have a growth in industrial employment. Most other countries would have envied our results. But we have to keep looking forward to succeeding. We still need a sound economic policy to ensure that the level of interest rates, exchange rates and framework conditions for business are the basis for continued competitive development in Business Norway. We need to facilitate an innovative knowledge-based business, not least in the five areas where the government has said it should bet. We do not want a business-neutral business policy, but an offensive effort in the areas where we have a special advantage. We need to continue to reduce red tape and cost to business, and we need to make sure to develop the entire country's potential. We will contribute to this in the years to come, and our results speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1905	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1908	It's good to see the Council of State in good, old drive with its posts from the pulpit. I'm actually going to be able to back up some of what's done later, and it's obvious, for most of the crisis packages that are being promoted, got unanimous support in the Stortinget. And it's the Stortinge that grants money; it's actually not the government. My question to the Council of State is about next year's budget. The background for me to take it up today is that the council itself is out there telling through the media, before he tells the Storting, that he's going to cut $90 million. kr related to Innovation Norway. I don't think it's the wrong way to go, but my question to the Council of State that I want the Council of State to confirm is how the Council of State has intended this money to be saved. The last thing that has to happen is that it is on the internal audit page and on the quality assurance page that these posts are removed. I think that's what history has shown us. Can the Council of States confirm that he will ensure that the internal audit and quality assurance are high?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1915	I'm very concerned that we're going to provide good quality. That is why we now have a full evaluation of Innovation Norway. We will follow up with a separate evaluation of the travel life and a separate evaluation of the outpatient offices – which helps Norwegian companies to export. We have increased many budgets under this government – I did it myself as Minister of Culture, with a formidable increase of 40 p.m. We're doing it in the business area, we've doubled the travel life rate. Let's do it in the police area. I heard the Progress Party was satisfied with its 105 million. kr in 2005. They must have cheered every year afterwards, because the increase has been greater every year compared to when the Progress Party got its hand on the budget. But we are concerned that we should use the money well at the same time. That is why we need to reduce bureaucracy. We need to keep state administration under control and ensure that the money goes out to those to whom we are going to grant, to the companies that are going to receive grants for the creation of new technology and to develop their potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1923	It was an overwhelming story the Council of State had to tell in terms of the formidable results achieved, also to the Minister of Industry, without saying anything about Norway's special situation with regard to the oil fund. In today's Business on Saturday, an interesting chronicle of a former finance minister from the Workers' Party, who thought that in time after the oil age – and the future, the Council of State was talking relatively little about – had to make things better for business, that small businesses were important, for most of them, and as the crown of the work: that the tax system had to be revised in order to make business easier. Does the Council of State end up with this description from former Minister of Finance Per Kleppe, and will he do something in the future to follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1932	Yes, I fully agree with Per Kleppe that we must constantly change and renew ourselves. The Workers' Party, for example, stands for 2010, is quite different from what the Labour Party stood for when Per Kleppe was Minister of Finance, because the world has changed. But the objectives are the same: full employment, increasing value creation, ensuring good distribution, being internationally active. That's where I think the numbers speak for themselves, because if it was that civil policy was better for business than red-green, the employment and value creation in business should have increased much more strongly during the Bondevik government than under us. But the truth is that, for example, In industry, according to the national accounts, employment fell by 26 000 between 2005 and 2009, while it is greater today than it was when we took over, despite a financial crisis. That's when I think you have an incredibly bad case when you think that civil policy is better for business than red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1937	: The Council of State has a constitutional responsibility both for what he does, and not least for what he does not. Today, there is a great gap between the objectives adopted by the Stortinget for social development and the strategy followed by the large state-controlled companies. The state is Norway's largest company victory, and each Norwegian owns shares for around NOK 125 000 in Norwegian companies. In order for these values to be used for the benefit of society, the state must ensure that the strategies of large companies are in line with important societal objectives. One goal no one should miss is the UN target of global warming at a maximum of 2 degrees. No state-owned companies are being measured on this requirement today. On the contrary, the State’s surplus power could have been used for a large contribution to renewable energy. Statoil, on the other hand, is blessed by the government to drive... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1944	We have announced that we will present our own big message about state ownership – it was announced in the census – where we will discuss both why the state should own, what we should own, and how we should own. In this context, it is also interesting to discuss what expectations we have of state companies, how we communicate those expectations, and how we respond to how companies actually follow up. However, I believe that the overall objectives of climate policy, of the 2 degree target and of contributing to sustainable development must apply to public companies, as well as to private companies. We do this best through regulations, laws and regulations, but also through economic instruments that make it profitable to operate environmentally friendly. And not least, we do it through international commitments that help businesses in all countries go the same way as Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1951	The Council of State has a description of reality that makes it important to bet on the history of Norwegian school, so that young people are allowed to settle their opinions. But that's not really what I was going to ask. I should ask about rule changes. The Council of State spoke hotly, both in its reply and in its speech, about the importance of renewing the public sector, about simplifying, so that bureaucracy does not become too big. We have proposed a rule board. We have proposed major objectives. Ola Borten Moe ran the game with the goals pursued by the Center Party in Sweden. Maud Olofsson, the party leader of the Center Party in Sweden, has established a regulatory board, and they have soon reached the goal of 25 pst. The problem with our Minister of Industry is that this primarily affects the small ones, and that is not so important. At the NHO Annual Conference in January, the Council of State said he would set a target. Now we've been waiting since the NHO Annual Conference. Sweden and Denmark are doing it. Is there a target for the state council soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1964	Firstly, I fully agree that historical knowledge is both useful and necessary, and also what kind of political results we have achieved today and what way we will go in the future. History can teach us something about that. Among other things, the Left has a proud story, which I think has little in common with what the right party stands for, but quite a lot in common with what the red-green stands for in the development of Norwegian society. I fully agree that we need a concrete objective for simplification. But it's not enough just to think about a number. We need to have concrete measures that follow up the figure. That is why we are now reviewing the Accounting Act. We have the audit obligation up to date. We need to look at the stock law. We need to look at the reporting field. We have an ambition to get 95 pst. of all reporting to Altin by 2012. It'll be close to a double from today's level. All of this will contribute to an easier everyday life, not least for the small and medium-sized enterprises that mark the bureaucracy most strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1971	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e1974	I was in that error that I thought the census was about what we were going to do next year, but I note that many of the contributions are about 2013 and about when the Progress Party and the Right take power. Nothing pleases my heart more than that. I'll try to talk a little bit about 2010 and 2011. “Knowledge trumps everything,” said Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in the New Year’s Eve. That he barely mentioned education and research in the throne, I expect was a glitch in that way. Whether the theme is participation in professional life, climate, energy, integration or social cohesion, themes that red-green people often talk about, is the answer in the knowledge sector. The representative Pedersen, the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, spoke in his speech about the challenges facing the welfare state in the decades to come, the challenges that are involved in increasing the cost of maintaining the level of welfare, while at the same time reducing the state's revenues from the petroleum industry. If we are to cope with this, the welfare-producing and value-creating sectors must work smarter – simply deliver more well-being and value-making per hour. In addition, a larger proportion of the working-age population must actually be at work. These objectives can only be achieved through an overall commitment to the knowledge society. Today, the representatives of the Workers' Party have talked several times about working for everyone and everyone is going with it. Both bulk bottles represent, to a large extent, important objectives for the welfare country. Unfortunately, not everyone is part of the education sector that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government currently rule, and that the Workers' Party has largely ruled since 1945. Today's school is far too focused on A4 students, and social education has gained too much leeway and too much importance. Ideology has simply guided school and school policy, not knowledge-based solutions. The result is e.g. one in 10 children in Norwegian school are bullied so much that they are afraid to go to school every single day during all or part of their basic education. Of course, there is no good basis for a child's learning if the child spends a lot of his time grunting about going to school. It is also true that one in five young people after 10 years of school is so poor at reading that they cannot understand a technical text or, for that matter, a newspaper article. This, of course, is also a poor starting point for further studies, such as: shows that one in three who starts high school falls away without having obtained a degree or study qualification. So state councillor Halvorsen says it's been like this for 15 years. But does it have to be like that for 30 years before they take hold of this, then? The chances are great, as everyone knows, for those who fall out of high school to get very tough in the labour market. A lot of people want to go outside. It's possible that everyone should come, but it's only in the parties of the Workers' Party that it's actually like that. In the education sector that the red-green government has now ruled for five years, not everyone comes. Unfortunately, this does not apply only to those students who have the greatest challenges of achieving academic results in school. This also applies to those who perform above average, despite the fact that the Training Act legislates that the strongest students should also be entitled to adapted training. It must be a goal – not just for the Progress Party, but for the whole of Stortinget – to facilitate that all students in Norwegian school are seen and that as many students as possible reach the highest possible level at school. The Ministry of Knowledge has just received a report from a sample of the Ministry of Knowledge itself. They propose to divide mathematics education in Norwegian school into two, with one theory-intensive part and one practical-oriented part. It would be in line with the State Council Halvorsen talked about instead, but nevertheless she has defused the proposal. I'll assume that's for ideological reasons. But then, unfortunately, it's not just in high school that the drop-out is big. In higher education too, we notice an increasing decline, especially in the technical fields such as: training in engineering. This is not so strange, for one in three students taking higher education in Norway does not receive full funding for their education. Every time we get statistics that there are more students entering higher education and research, government councils and depositors from the red-green parties are in line and cheering over how great this is. However, two out of three of these students receive full funding from their study places, while one out of three places of study is not funded. Now it's time for us to give higher education a boost, especially technical subjects. Then I have to say that I hope that during 2011 all the parties at Stortinget can jointly ensure that we get back a binding and ambitious plan for continuing education of the most important element in Norwegian school, namely the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2002	Our fresh world champion, Thor Hushovd, has once again shown that a small country such as Norway can cope with the greatest, only we are sufficiently determined. Right-hand calls for the same competitive instinct in school. Instead of taking up the fight with the best, we have become experts looking for explanations of why Norwegian students do not get up, despite resources at the top of the world. It doesn't make us any better. Norwegian well-being and value creation depend to the most extent on our being in the knowledge front. We take it as a matter of course that Norwegian sport should claim to be at the top of the world. Norwegian practitioners have in turn proved that it is possible to set high targets and reach them. Norwegian school can learn from that. Research in Norwegian schools in recent years has concluded that learning pressure is not high enough. Our students are underperforming because the school doesn't meet them with high enough expectations. Despite high levels of resource use in schools, Norway is in central schooling below the OECD average in terms of knowledge levels. It should worry the government much more than it seems. Right will have a new knowledge balance between school and parents. The right-hand side wants the school to become clearer when it comes to meeting the students. Schools must make clearer demands for both professional development, positive behaviour and good interaction between students. This is the basis for a motivating learning environment. From the research team, we hear that learning gives pleasure and that well-being gives learning. Through a knowledge balance with parents, the school should help all students to expand, exploit their real potential. Here in the country, everyone can take free education, because the community takes the bill. But there's a reason to ask if not many people let this become a sleep cushion. Results from both international and national student surveys suggest that work efforts at different levels of Norwegian education could have been more beneficial. On the right, the government challenges because we believe it is necessary to raise the ambitions in the field of education: Norwegian students need to get more hungry on learning. The qualifications of teachers must be guaranteed through the right and duty of continuing lifelong training. The whole education system needs to become more flexible in order to avoid apostasy and give more young people and adults a new chance. Norwegian education at all levels needs to interact better with working life in order to provide key labour of the highest quality. Norwegian students need to have more focus on depression in order to be as well equipped as possible for transition to professional life. In order to strengthen Norway’s competitiveness, the country’s real science and language skills need to be strengthened. More research needs to contribute to increased innovation, new jobs and better welfare services. The dropout in secondary education is one of our most serious societal problems. It is unacceptable for one in five young people to be hooked on in their teens because of lack of literacy skills. We have to ask ourselves why the school can't give these students the help they need. Is it because it has no consequences for the school? In that case, we have to do something about it. To the right, Norway should look to Canada, where feedback systems have been established to provide information on the performance of former students in the school cycle. This has been made a central theme in the quality assessment of the school. Norway’s competitiveness is under pressure in an increasingly globalised world. It is essential for further growth and prosperity that the Norwegian education system can process new generations of professionals, researchers and experts that can increase profitability in existing industries and develop new, more environmentally friendly industries. Real science competence is a critical factor in this respect. The right has long called for warning because important real-time skills are not replaced quickly enough. The right is also seriously concerned about the current underestimation of the importance of good linguistic competence in the working world of the future. Norway needs a better climate for value creation, we need to improve public services, and we need more knowledge in school. On the right, it is committed to ensuring sustainable well-being and orderly society to meet new obligations towards, among others. older people. That's why Right will invest in knowledge and research to build the skills we're going to live on in the future. The aim of a knowledge balance between school and parents is that more students are motivated and realize the importance of active efforts from the day they start school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2048	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2051	After the government change in 2005, Norwegian schools have become more calm. There has been peace around national samples, including: because no one is hanging out in view of the results. The promise of knowledge has been implemented with broad support in the Stortinget and the privatisation wave that the Right and State Council, Clamet, were about to start was stopped. There is no call in Norway for more privatisation of the school. Fortunately, the debate is now more about how to do the public school better and better. It is good and in stark contrast to our bourgeoisly overthrown neighboring country. However, one has to ask whether this would be the situation even after a possible majority of the Progress Party and the Right in 2013. Do we then want to see an increase in the privatisation of the school? Is it possible to make money in private schools if the Right Party and the Advance Party get what they want? And will a privatization release of the school be what becomes the future Norway? I wonder what the representative Aspaker's view of this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2057	This has been a strange debate of the throne, because here one representative goes from one government party to another and draws caricatures of political opponents' policies that don't belong anywhere. The questions the representative of the Aasen travels here, she could have read about in the Right Program. That's a policy right there doesn't stand for it. We arranged for a certain amount of fresh oils in Norway, 85 pst. publicly funded, because we wanted the parents who wanted it to be able to choose a different school offer for their children. The existence of this possibility is also an obligation for Norway under international conventions. Then I think it becomes quite strange – when less than 4 pst. by Norwegian students go to that type of school today — making it a question of whether the Right will continue to bet on the public school. Of course we will. We are committed to the promise of knowledge and will complete it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2062	Elisabeth Aspaker refers to the government's contribution to trying to identify the differences between a possible new right-wing civil option and the current government of a caricature. No, it's not. That's the facts. In my hometown, Drammen, we faced a situation before the 2005 elections where about half of the young people who were going to take high school had to go to so-called private, commercial high school because the government Bondevik had opened up to a release of that type of school. Then there's not, with respect to reporting, a cartoon to ask: what will be the starting point of a new, possibly blue-blue government? I think it is quite remarkable that representatives from the Right cannot respond to the reintroduction of the policy introduced two major periods ago by a possible blue-blue alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2069	The changes made in the law on early school leave last period were based on the assumption that we wanted Norwegian parents and Norwegian students to have greater freedom in the choice of school. So we know that at high school there were some more schools than it did at high school. So we don't have reason to believe that in the future it's not going to be positive for the public school that there's a certain amount of private that can help you increase the choices that students have. Unlike the Workers' Party and Micasen's representative, we have great faith that students and parents themselves are able to make good, wise choices in the field of further education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2076	I also think it's been a bit of a strange drumming debate, among other things. because the Right Party now puts its rhetoric and its sayings very far towards the centre of Norwegian politics, and talks in general about things everyone is for – so much that I had a big problem finding something, except for the criticism of the red-green ones, in which I disagreed in the representative Aspaker’s posts. It is not a caricature that the representative of the Aasen here takes up what will be the outcome of discussions there about. 50 pst. by any government with the Right and the Advance Party will have one view. One of the two parties opens up the possibility of a dividend in the school. Well, well, it's interesting to know what the outcome is. But then let me ask the representative, Aspaker, about two things she didn't raise, but as last I checked, the program was on the right – and they're on the right. Would the Right argue that the private sphere in force before 2005 if Right obtains government power? And question 2: Will there be grades in 5th grade if Right wins an election and gets to implement its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2083	To Bård Vegar Solhjell’s two questions: Right is very clear that we want a school sector in Norway with greater opportunities for more people to choose an alternative school offer, if you want. The law of free school that was passed under the previous government had clear rules in relation to not taking dividends. It's not a private school law like that of the red-green ones today drawing a picture of, because it's a school law that says that 85 pst. of the school money is public. The parents get away with 15 pst. that there is a school offer that everyone should be able to make use of, in effect, regardless of the size of the wallet. So when it comes to the question of grades from the fifth grade, there's a reality that there's a need for more and clearer feedback in school. Then we'll come back to what kind of way we want to design that feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2090	I would like to pay tribute to the Right for having had a thorough process in the Party Organisation on the EU Data Storage Directive. The scepticism of this Directive is in line with the Right's policy and tradition of defending privacy and the individual's rights. But I'm still waiting for the conclusion from the party in this important matter. The Data Storage Directive will represent a paradigm shift by storing traffic data inconclusively with the aim of fighting crime. I think there's every reason to be skeptical about a monitoring reform that means that we're all going to be suspected of being or could become criminals, until the opposite is proven. I am excited to hear what the representative of Aspaker can tell if it has intended to do so in the case of the Data Storage Directive. The question is whether it is more important for Right to avoid using the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement than to fight for the right to privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2101	We are in the situation during this great period that we have a majority government, and this big deal, including the Right, is now waiting for a government case, related to the data storage directive that Jenny Klinge is so concerned about. There is no secret that opinions on the directive are shared in the Right. Nor is it a secret that the Right has asked many questions to the government about how this directive could be designed, and how Norwegian legislation in this area could be in order for us to give our support, if necessary. It says the matter today. We are now waiting for the government to present the legislative proposal that it believes Norway should be able to live with without using the right of reservation. We still reserve the right to make assessments relating to that matter until the government has presented its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2110	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2113	Before the throne speech that the King read on Saturday, as chairman of the nomination committee in the Workers' Party in my home town, I had the pleasure of presenting a new proposal to the Workers' Party candidates for the next period of the City Council in the Drammen. At the top of the list, as our rapporteur candidate – and rightly so, the nomination meeting – is a man named Masud Gharahkhani. He's a young man, raised in Scotland, but born in Iran. He's at the top of the list -- not because of skin color, not because of quota, but because he's who he is, because of the qualities and the potential he has, and because of the belief we have that he's the right man to lead the Dram into the future. His nomination is a breakthrough for the new Norway and for the Workers' Party. For the first time, we can see that we have a rapporteur with a multicultural background. The fact that this is happening in a large city such as Drammen shows that integration in Norway is on the right track. When Masud's parents chose to flee Iran as quite young parents, it was to give security to their child. They did not want him to live in a world and in a country characterized by war, impunity, oppression and lack of democracy. They sought security, and experienced being welcomed with open arms in Norway and Scotland. Masud loves his country, he says himself. He says he is forever grateful for the way he was accepted, and that he has grown up in a country that makes demands, but also gives opportunities. The fact that he, who was born in Iran and grew up in the Community community of Norway, has the opportunity to become rapporteur for the country's largest party in one of the largest cities in the country is a strong and vivid proof that everything is possible in Norway. Someone's asking us what's our project in government. Well, the answer is exactly what Masud's history represents: a country where everything will be possible, a country where everything is possible through effort, but also through support from a strong community where everyone will have the opportunity to succeed. Norwegian society should provide the basis for people's future beliefs, whether one will be a hairdresser, carpenter, teacher, doctor, researcher, lawyer or rapporteur. The goal is that everyone should be able to live good and meaningful lives. The same applies to immigrants to Norway who are threatened by war, torture, persecution and repression in their countries of origin and who fulfil the conditions of residence in Norway. The government announced in the census that we should continue to conduct a strict, consistent and fair immigration policy that takes care of those who come here with a real need for protection, like Masud's parents who fled from one of the world's worst regimes. And those who are allowed to stay should be entitled to the same possibilities as everyone else. Self-employment requirements shall enable them to take part in the security and confidence of the future provided by the community. Because when we succeed in integrating, those who come from the outside become a resource and not a problem, as some other parties refer to these people as. But such a society does not come of itself. As politicians, every day we have responsibility for making decisions that help to build the country in the right direction. How we put stones on rocks today is about what kind of construction we'll be left with in the future – what kind of society we're going to have. We as politicians can do a lot. We can afford money, we can create good structures and systems, and we're going to put forward a government budget tomorrow that's going to be absolutely amazing. But it doesn't solve everything. We cannot adopt more humanity in the Storting. We cannot adopt neighbourliness and spirit of virtue. Every adult in this country must take its share of responsibility for it. I think we have to go back to the cohesion tab – also in a country that is flowing with milk and honey. People have to care when the kid in the neighboring house obviously is not doing well and sitting alone on the stairs out in winter. People have to care when everyone knows that the man's people are on the wife's side – but no one's saying from – or when the teenager in the street is at full speed on the slope – without anyone taking any action. We have to dry to care. I have faith in Norway – believe that this country will be even better. If we are able to create security through a Community-based society, we also have a good basis for people to have faith in the future. A country and a society's potential is the sum of all of us who live here. This will also make a country where everything is possible, a country with all its possibilities. I'm tired of hearing about the project of this government. This is our project, neither more nor less. Finally, I have to say that I hope again that it must be possible that this government, as won the 2005 elections, which was re-elected in 2009, can soon have a real alternative to discuss with – not a dream picture of everything that we do not know what is, not an opposition that does not know who to cooperate with. We have our project. During this debate, we continue to benefit from seeing what the opposition's project as a whole is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2139	The red-green parties and the Prime Minister also used the well-known concepts that have gone back and forth both before this census and in previous years, such as well-being and inclusive working life – a working life with room for all. But I also noticed that the Prime Minister continued to spend time on pension reform. He says that from 1 January 2011, it will be so that everyone in the private sector can combine pensions and income without any curtailment. This is nothing new. Three and a half years ago, on 23 April 2007, these new policies were adopted. They were confirmed in law as late as 15 May 2009, i.e. a year and a half ago. When the government tries to turn old politics into a news story, it does testify that today's government has more than enough with itself and has few or no new visions of the future. I have also noticed that not one of the red-green parties has mentioned the term "nav". The Nav reform is, in my opinion, the key to the functioning of our welfare system. What was the Nav reform supposed to be? Yes, it would lead to more people working and fewer in social security. It should make it easier for users and adapt to the needs of users – a holistic and more efficient management of labour and welfare. Has the government succeeded? Has there been more in work and less in social security? Unfortunately, the answer is no. If we look at the last numbers from Nav, we see that the unemployment rate is going up. In particular, young women are the most struggling to enter the labour market, and especially those with training in the care and care sector. When we know that there is a need for more and more people in that sector, more warm hands in the care sector, it is incomprehensible to me that we have not succeeded in getting more of these employees. Let's look at social security: have we had fewer social security? The answer is also here no. The first quarter of 2010 increased the number of new recipients of a permanent disability pension by 31.2 pst. compared to the first quarter of the previous year. Norway has a good impact on unemployment statistics, precisely because we have a lot of underprivileged people. It is also confirmed from studies conducted by the OECD and the Frischsenter. If you look at what happened from the government of Stoltenberg took over in 2005 and until today, you will have more than 169 000 new disabled people, who have gone from working life to disability. To me, it testifies that they have taken the weakest out of work and put them on a permanent disability. It does not testify to a policy that can include more and include the weakest. I also record that there are still 80,000 disabled people who want to enter the labour market who are not being taken care of, and that no policy is being created that allows them to get into the labour market. So you can ask yourself, has the government succeeded in making it easier for users to get help adapted to their needs? When we look at all of these individuals that stand out in the news picture, the answer here is quite clearly a no. Have we been given a more comprehensive and effective welfare management? We see today that we have many good performances, but do they work well enough? Take, for example: work trips for the disabled: budgets are exhausted early in the year. People who have got a job don't get to work because the system doesn't work. We've got a rigid system for the allocation of aids, and we've got a response system that doesn't work well enough. I want to take an example from my own home built from a visit I was on earlier this summer. It was a small farm that had been converted into Inn on the tune, which had specialized in getting people with mental disorders back to work. They had 18 young people, 16 of them had entered normal work. What does Nav say on March 1st, 2010? No, we cut out this measure. We don't have any more money left. This tells me that something is seriously wrong with the system, and that it doesn't work optimally. We could have pulled out one story after another. Unfortunately, there won't be time in five minutes. But I just want to say that we have got a Nav system, a welfare system that is not mentioned by the government parties, which has become more bureaucratic than ever. How is this government going to red tape that system to make it better for its users? I finally register that silence is also a language.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2156	The Norwegian model is inextricably linked to municipal welfare. We have a large and good public sector. We have good services, and we have a lot to be proud of. The red-green government, like no other government in the past, has given priority to the municipal sector through a large-scale investment and the injection of money to the municipalities. The needs are not met, and someone asks the rhetorical question: Where has the money gone? The money has been used for what they are to be used for. They've gone to the kindergarten school so that we've approximated full kindergarten coverage, and they're among other things. have been transferred to several municipalities in the care and care area. However, this does not mean that there are no challenges. Some of the challenges are related to the lack of maintenance of municipal building mass, increasing debt burden and new offers to the increasingly older population in the country. One of the great, future promises for the municipal sector is offered to everyone when they need it, either sick home or happily manned nursing home. It's an improvement in the welfare community. The Workers' Party will ensure that this objective is achieved. People will have real freedom of choice to be in their own home as far as possible, in a nursing home or in a nursing home as necessary. The certainty that there are places available, if necessary, will increase the safety of individuals and thus improve the quality of life. The well-being of the lacuna test community is linked to the feeling of security not only for today but also if the life situation changes and the need for help from others is present. This will be well funded by the State, which will enable the objective to be achieved. The funding shall be good, unbureaucratic, and the assessment of the need for places is unabated in the municipalities. Municipalities’ applications shall not be evaluated or reviewed by the State. However, the goal of full hospital coverage and lucky day care facilities cannot be achieved unless the municipalities implement the development. This is hard work where the state and the municipality are interdependent. We all have to do this independently of the political point of view in order to give good enough offers to everyone in this group who needs it. Work done is usually free of charge. It's not this. The State should contribute to good financial instruments that do not burden municipalities so that other services need to be built up. We cannot build a sector at the expense of other statutory services. We must continue to have full childcare facilities, good schools, cultural services and a satisfactory technical sector. We see that there are differences between municipalities in priority in this area. Since 2003, workers’ party-driven Trondheim has increased the number of hospitalised places by 200, while in the Right and Advance Party-driven Oslo, the number has decreased by 430 in the same period. The working party will not assess a single tax cut until this expansion is completed. We have a right-hand side that will eliminate the wealth tax and redistribute the funds to those who initially have the most. The property tax constitutes the operation of 15 000 health homes. This example shows how important taxes are to finance our well-being goods. Even more important than good financing solutions is the future need for competent staff in the care sector. More hands need to be provided in this sector. This will be challenging for municipalities, and in this area too, government and local authorities will have to make a commitment: several places of study, continuing training and training, upgrading real skills and raising status within this important work. Health workers are an important part of the silence of the welfare society, depending on the accumulation and government in order to achieve a new, high level of health care. We can only improve the welfare state if everyone contributes to it!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2178	After hearing the post from the previous representative here, I started to wonder if the representatives from the government parties had the necessary ground contact with the problems in Norwegian municipalities. But I won't talk about it. I took the floor to talk a little about the asylum and immigration policy of the sitting government, and not least about what was announced in the throne speech on Saturday. It was not inconceivable what came out then, but I would say that when you keep what was said in the throne to what various representatives from the government parties have been jumping around and saying in the media lately, I cannot understand it other than that there is the total uncertainty about what should be the government's asylum policy in the future. In the throne, the government says that: ‘will reduce the number of persons without need for protection seeking asylum in Norway’. It is well and good, while on the same day you could turn on TV 2 and listen to the representative Holmås from SV who spoke for one side from Norway to stop returning asylum seekers to Greece. The day before the throne speech, Justice Minister Storberget was out in the evening post and signalled what cannot be understood in any other way than amnesty arrangements for families with children who have stayed in Norway for a long time while waiting for their case — and also for those who may go in hiding and who oppose their posting. The problem here is, of course, that these things are not hanging together. The government has not learned from the major mistakes made in the previous period. I remember them very well. I remember that in 2005, 2006, when this government joined, the number of asylum seekers who came to Norway was 5 000. Then some liberalisations were made, including: stop in return for Greece. They made it easier for families with children to stay in Norway. And what happened? Well, what the Progress Party warned against happened, because it was an enormous increase in the number of asylum seekers who came to the Kingdom. In 2009, a sort of record was set, with over 17 000 asylum seekers coming to the country. And then you do the same problems again. It is amazing that the sitting government obviously needs a history lesson in relation to the grips and mistakes made by the same government in the previous magnificence period. Because there's a connection here. It is clear that if Norway unilaterally stops returning to Greece, and if Norway unilaterally introduces amnesty schemes for certain groups of asylum seekers, only one thing will happen, and that is that the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway will once again increase dramatically. I fear that the government simply does not take lessons from history and the mistakes that have been made in the past. Then you've also taken some action. It started late, but there were some restrictions on Norwegian asylum policy – one did not go as far as the Progress Party asked for and wished, but one did. Fortunately, this year's influx of asylum to the Kingdom seems to be falling in line with 2009, but we are still there that there are probably twice as many asylum seekers coming to Norway in the current year as it did the year this government joined. It's a fantastic situation that you don't take lessons from history. So it's interesting to note that the government has realized that it really makes sense to make demands on immigrants if you're going to succeed in integrating them. Some action has been taken in relation to demands for support, work, education, but I still demand what the government promised in Soria Moria-II, namely that you should: ‘introduce a general requirement for four years’ work — and or training as a condition for family establishment’. It shines with its absence. However, it is also essential to have control of family immigration to the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2203	Estimates show that by 2050 there will be half a million people over 80 years of age in Norway. By 2035, the number of people with dementia will be doubling compared to today. If half of these people need hospitalization, it'll only require 50 pst. increase of today’s 40,000 sick places. This creates challenges for our provision of health and care. However, the main challenge of future care for the elderly is the availability of sufficient labour and sufficient outreach labour. Only to keep up today's standard services will the need for labour be doubled by 2050. In such a situation, it is important to ensure first and foremost recruitment, for example. by strengthening efforts towards involuntary part-time work and the right to a full-time job, and ensuring care workers, or, more precisely, the care women, a wage to live on. The public debate on care for the elderly is dominated by criticism and lack, and in particular the lack of health care places. I thought the debate was unfurnished, because there is a lot of good and positive in today's care for the elderly. According to a report by Health Research in SINTEF, Norway is now investing more in care services for older people than any other country in Europe. The availability of institutional facilities is as good or better than in other Nordic countries. Only the Danes surpass us when it comes to the provision of services. According to the report, both users and relatives are happy with the services they receive. But of course there are challenges in this image, and much is not good enough. But with regard to many other countries, we have a better starting point when the wave of older people comes. The centre party is particularly concerned that, in order to meet the challenges of care for the elderly, we need to make more provision for older people to live in their own homes. The focus must be shifted from large institutions to decentralised provision – to own housing, home and community. We should do as we do in Denmark. There they have the objective that all older people should live in their own homes, and there is a prohibition against the creation of institutions for the elderly. The center party believes that we will not be able to build ourselves out of the coming wave of older people. It will be important to strengthen home services in municipalities, to exploit the great potential of cooperating with voluntary and non-profit organisations and to exploit the potential of family-based care. Family-based care today accounts for about 50 pst. of the total care provision. Family-based care is therefore a major resource for which it will be very important to provide support in the future. The development of public home services, the strengthening of care pay systems, good access to download sites, increased funds for house conversion and the like, may together or separately provide a basis for more elderly people to choose to live and live longer in their own homes. It's positive for the elderly, and it's positive for society. The right side today advocates massive privatisation before care for the elderly in response to tomorrow's challenges. The Central Party believes that health and care provision is a common task for the local government and local government. Private health services shall be complementary and must be regulated and included in public health plans. Non-profits that have become part of the public service must be guaranteed good conditions. As a local politician over the years, I have followed the process of postponing homes and home care in Bergen, which is run by the Right and the Progress Party. The first argument was that one did this to save money. And then one didn't. It was then argued that competition should improve quality. So it didn't happen either. Finally, the argument was put back, that competition would secure the earlier choice. It's true, but it's like giving an option to a family of children by letting them choose between a community and a public offer. It's a trick of choice. The important thing is that older people with needs for care have a real choice between living at home or using other care services and deciding on their own everyday life. 2 pst. by the users in Bergen have selected private providers within home care. It shows that what the right-hand side is betting on today is not exactly a popular requirement out there. In addition, the private care providers are exempted from providing help at night. This means that it is the municipality that is left with the heaviest users and the sickest elderly. The centre party has ambitious targets for the care of the elderly in Norway. Together with the other government parties, we shall follow up the older arrangement in Stortinget and the care plan. This means 12,000 new year’s works and hospital places and implementation, among others. of the guarantee of eligibility and of the commitment of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2222	A safe and good health and care service is one of the pillars of the welfare society. Health services shall contribute to good health and to the prevention of disease. In the coming years, health and care services face several challenges. We're getting more and more older with chronic diseases. Medical developments also give us more opportunities. We can treat more and treat more, and we survive disease we died of before. In order to offer the opportunities offered by medical development, the government is making important changes in the organisation of health services. The population should receive even better health and care services in the future. The government strengthens the work on quality and patient safety. An important effort is being made on the competence and use of ICT, which will provide individuals with better access to their own patient information and to communication with healthcare even within the healthcare system. As we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, we have strengthened the commitment to care and mental health. The main priority of health enterprises in the future is to reduce waiting times. I have submitted a more frequent report. No breach of time limit may be accepted. Hospitals shall be better placed to provide simple and good information on rights when deadlines cannot be met. With the Interaction Reform, the government is taking the big steps to meet the challenges of healthcare. We need to prevent more and treat earlier. Norway has one of the world’s highest life expectancy, but life expectancy is still 12 years higher in Oslo west than in Oslo centre-east. The key to addressing these health inequalities lies in prevention and active policies in many fields. Healthcare needs to be adapted to the needs of patients, not vice versa. When the municipality can offer treatment of equal quality or better quality, the patient shall not become a throw-off between home and hospital or hospital and hospital. Treatment should be provided more closely where the patient lives. The local authorities are therefore given a stronger role. It requires better cooperation between hospitals and municipalities, more obligatory cooperation agreements and agreed treatment processes. As part of the implementation of the Interaction Reform, the government will, in the autumn, submit to consultation proposals for new public health legislation, a new and comprehensive law on municipal health and care services, and we will carry out a broad consultation on a new national health and care plan. Many municipalities are already developing their own health and care services, and municipalities are cooperating between and with hospitals. New offers are being established in local medical centres. The interaction reform has met with commitment and willingness to find new solutions. The instruments provided by the government provide the basis for the implementation of the Interaction Reform from 2012. Those in need of help should receive it — whether it is older, people with mental retardation, disability, drug problems or chronic diseases. Elders who need it will get a happy day's care. The government's promise of 12,000 new places of health care and health care by 2015 remains firm. We both need to develop a care service and focus on the content. As important as care and medicine are care and care. Creating a safe and dignified care service is about focusing on three key areas: capacity, competence and quality. I am pleased that we have an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party that underlines this, and the Government will follow up this agreement on the concreteisation of the care plan 2015. The government is fully involved in care services. We have the next 10 to 15 years to meet the challenges that we know are coming. We are already laying the groundwork, both in terms of expanding capacity, increasing skills and improving quality. We see and hear examples of people not getting what they need today. Although we've done a lot, we're not yet in the goal. With the 2015 care plan, with a competence plan and a dementia plan, the Government will work for a comprehensive care offer that meets the individual’s needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2260	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2263	The Human Drug Policy Association is working for the legalisation of drugs, the distribution of heroin and the organisation of drug use. Support from the Health Directorate continued this year. The ‘benefit’ network, which consists of former drug users working for drug-free treatment for more than one, did not receive further support. Is this a deliberate calculation of the government's drug policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2268	The government is committed to a comprehensive drug policy, which is varied and offers a range of people at different levels and at different levels of drug use. Of course, prevention is the most important thing, but it is also important to care for those who are already addicted to drugs. There are different organisations receiving grants. There's a lot of organizations that get it. There are many non-governmental organisations that are doing a huge job in drug care, which are also receiving grants, so that they can make important and valuable offers for those who need it. It is a policy we want to pursue. Then we have the Stoltenberg report, which has now been sent to the hearing, and the government will continue to work with the drug policy when the consultation deadline is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2275	In his speech, the Minister of Health said that they wanted to strengthen their commitment to mental health. We have registered that she has announced that the government will propose to give Health Bergen a loan to build a new children's and youth centre. I think that's very good. It will be completed in perhaps four to five years, and only then will it be available. But children and young people who need mental health protection in the West of Health have the longest waiting time in the country. Priority patients must wait almost two and a half months for help in outpatient settings. In contrast to other regions, although the waiting time for help is so long, Health West has not given priority to strengthening the supply of mentally ill children, as the Stortinget has requested. They use less resources than the national average, they have fewer daily places and fewer outpatient consultations, as reported in the Health Directorate’s 2009 report. Then my question is: what will the Minister of Health really do now to ensure that children and young people in the Health West get a better and more equivalent offer of mental health protection? They cannot wait until 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2282	I fully agree that the children cannot wait until the new Children's and Youth Centre is finished. Even if it's been a long time, they can't. They must be taken care of today, and they must also be taken care of today. Psychiatric health has long been a priority for the Government, not least for children. Clearly, it is worrying when children have to wait longer than they should. This is why regional health businesses have also been given the task of prioritizing this field. This is a field on which I am concerned that we are going to use both resources and capacity. That's why I'm also following developments very closely in the field of mental health and waiting there, which, after all, has gone down and shown a happy development as seen. But it's not good when someone waits too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2287	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Care promise that the guarantee of dignity will come in autumn. It is also essential that we keep up with money, so that the municipalities are able to provide a decent care for the elderly. Many elderly people who come to a nursing home feel lonely and worthless, and many of them are increasingly reduced and need more and more help. There is also a lack of leisure activities, and many older people who are able to do so do not get out of the hospital either — even in the neighborhood. The guarantee of dignity means a change of law and regulation to ensure better provision of health and care to older people throughout the country. My question to the Council of State is: Is she certain that the municipalities will be financially equipped to strengthen the rights of the elderly, including those of the elderly? through the guarantee of the dignity of the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2294	The Dignity Guarantee is important to the Government. We also heard that the Prime Minister placed great emphasis on the guarantee of dignity in his statement earlier today and also on the regulation and the law relating to this. With the commitment that the government has made towards 2015 on the whole care plan, on capacity, on competence, not least because it is important here – not only competence at all necessary, but it is also about attitudes, being able to offer patients or the elderly a more comprehensive offer, which the dignity guarantee very well describes – I am sure that we will be able to achieve the goal. But that means that we have to build a rock – it is not possible to do this overnight. So let's do that. In the case of expansion, e.g.: the allocation of care places in relation to the application, we are well on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2301	I want to move on to another area, and it's about a debate we've had a little earlier today on non-profit institutions. The reality is that very many institutions that are ideal are already liquidated, including in the area of health. It's about both drugs and mental health. Several institutions with which I have spoken, including the last few weeks, say that they do not know at this stage whether they will be agreed with the regional health companies next year, nor how long these agreements will be – that is, a total unforeseeable as of today. It is the contractual obligation of the regional health establishments that indicates that it has become so, and it is those who also govern this work. My question is whether the Council of State will help to ensure that the government is in favour of an agreement on ideal actors, as the Christian People's Party has proposed today through our party leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2307	The government is very concerned about the work of NPISHs, not least related to drug care and also aspects of mental health protection. In drug use in particular, there is a large proportion of institutions run by NPISHs, and they do a fantastic job and are in many ways an important supporter throughout this care. They are therefore also receiving state support in order to be able to operate, I can mention in fleng, what is being run here in Oslo not least, but also elsewhere in the country. It's also the way health companies make agreements, and with non-profit organisations they can make longer agreements than you can do with commercial ones. This is a work that I understand was started by the Bondevik government, but that our government started. But there should be no doubt that we are occupied by NPISHs. Then it must always be that the patient and the patient's needs are at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2314	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2317	We're almost six hours out in this year's throne debate. I have listened with excitement to the various posts that have been held here today, and what is reflected in many ways in the debate itself, is that it may seem that some people are simply trying to start the election campaign in view of 2013 already. I think we're going to try to deal a little bit more with today's situation and the challenges we're facing today, because we have a lot to do. The government has presented a report or a statement about what we are waiting for through the census. When you read through it and see how small it is that actually is about business, and what you're going to bet on, while you see how huge a lot of vocabulary there is, and how much is actually about thoughts, views and plans etc. In the long run, it might look like you've forgotten one thing, and it's actually the business that's with the employees who have to join us and pay for the goals that we all set ourselves. That's why it has to be reflected. The vast majority of Norwegian business is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, approx. 97 pst. by Norwegian enterprises have fewer than 100 employees. These businesses have special problems and challenges in their everyday lives. The representative Fleet had some of these things in mind, and it's very important that when we're going to make a business policy and get a business policy for the future, we start relatively from scratch. It is important that the school community is involved, to ensure that we have the skills that are needed when businesses are asked for the same people in order to be able to move on. It is important that we develop closer cooperation between universities, business and investors, to ensure that we work more together, so that the good ideas that come from research environments and universities can be put into practice. Unfortunately, the good ideas aren't worth much if they don't get commercialized or realized. The Formfield is a recurring theme. It's, with respect to reporting, a little sad to see that we haven't yet managed to set ourselves a goal of where we want and where we're going. In fact, the Council of State says: Yes, first we have to look at the goal, and then we have to evaluate back and forth, and then we're going to see what we're finally going to get back to. Yes, but in the meantime the companies are struggling. In the meantime, someone goes overboard, you can't live with the situation that is. If we look at Denmark and Sweden, they have come beyond us. In many other contexts we try to say, let's look at the countries that it's natural to compare us to, but here it looks like you've forgotten it. In 2009, Norwegian companies used 7.8 million hours, i.e. 4,500 annual works, to fill out a state form. This is not acceptable. Furthermore, we have to make sure that these companies can just use their time as they want. The founder of Norway does not want to sit and spend his time on forms, reports, etc. The founder really wants to be the entrepreneur, the one who's going to work in his company to make sure that his own values can be implemented. Furthermore, it's a topic that I haven't heard anything about yet, but it's possible I've missed a post or two, and it's about challenges in the fisheries sector. In fact, we have major challenges in the fisheries sector, but it seems that this debate is almost absent. The debate I am thinking of is particularly linked to the massacre we now have. We're talking about enormous values in the North Sea. We are now facing very difficult negotiations with Iceland with the European Union, and my big question is: do we have a strategy with the European Union, so that we can ensure Norwegian values? It could almost seem like we don't have it. I really hope I'm wrong. Debates will show that. But it's time that we soon get more focus on the fisheries and the values that are actually out there, which are to be extracted. We have a duty to ensure that the interests of Norwegian fishermen are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2338	It is often a cliché of globalisation that it means that the distinctions between foreign and domestic policies become less visible and less important. That's actually right. The challenges we face are largely the same. The world is getting closer. What happens outside our borders is becoming increasingly important to what is happening within our borders. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee just came back from a very good and interesting visit to Japan and China. That visit underlines in many ways that globalisation makes the distinctions between foreign and domestic are being erased. There is a lot about the development of Japan and China that gives cause for concern and reflection. One of the issues that was on the agenda when we met our Chinese counterparts was, of course, the restrictions on freedom of speech and assembly. It's also a fascinating country in many ways. You can see the enormous development that is taking place, and perhaps especially in one area, which is common to both Japan and China, and that is the enormous investment in knowledge, research and development. Now it can be said that when Norway looks beyond and looks at how we practice assistance, education is often a key to aid that is both effective and good. But when we look inwards, in Norway, it is also extremely important that we focus more on education and research. Those who are now educated in China and Japan are our future competition. As former leader of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I have to say that I am looking at this with mixed emotions, both because we in Norway soon have to take the debate on what we will live on in the future, and because in this debate, as in so many others, we have to deal with the emergence of new power centers in the world. Let me give you one small example: in Norway today it is that in some disciplines 80–90 pst. of those taking doctoral degrees, from Asian countries. It's a good development that we attract foreign students, but it's worrying when all they do is come here and take education and then travel back and use that education elsewhere than in Norway. There were also other issues on the agenda in Japan and China. There was a particular interest in the sharing line agreement with Russia. Norway has reaped both praise and recognition, a praise that both I and others have passed on to the government here in the hall. It is clear that for Japan and China, who are in constant disputes – it was one while we were there – disputes about unsolved sea areas, it is interesting to see how to reach a sharing line agreement like the one we have with Russia. More traditional foreign and defence policy will also shape the coming period. I just want to draw some attention to the debate that has been going on over the last week on Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. In many ways, I think everyone understands that we, and the Defense, have to take hold of what can be uncultures in the Defense. I think they do, too. One example of this is the unregulated departmental labels and their use for, for example: spraying civil Afghan houses. What may have disappointed me a lot about the debate is that no more have stood up and said that we need to support our soldiers. They're in an extreme situation that I think it's hard to imagine. They are prepared in the worst case to kill or die as a consequence of our political choices. It deserves our support. In addition, the news today reported that Norwegian soldiers are struggling with the fact that they have to leave more often and for longer periods than other NATO soldiers. This is a lot of reasons, but one of the main reasons is that there are not enough resources in the Army to set up the departments to go out, well enough. Telemark battalion, which has been more or less continuous outside since 2002, lacks a team in each company. There's a lot, and it makes the wear on those out there get big. There are many and large tasks that are distributed to a few people. The NRK today used the early term ‘resources’. It's a serious concept, and I'm not going to allow it to be so dramatic, but the thing is that the Right has warned several times against this becoming the situation if we don't add the Army more resources. The consequences for our soldiers can be dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2359	Then really the next speaker is Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who is not present in the hall. Then Mr. Hoksrud will have the floor. – There are good people prepared to be able to stand still on short notice! Here you go, Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2364	Thank you for that, President! I record that the three red-green parties have wanted to turn the debate on the throne into a debate on welfare. Yes, well-being is definitely much more important for the Advance Party than it is for the three red-green government parties. For me, not more than 4 700 drug users need treatment, or more than 260,000 people in hospital queues are well-being goods. This is because the red-green queues are getting longer because they won't allow private people to help people who are sick and need help. One might wonder if standing in line is well-being for the red-green parties. It's no surprise, because socialists are very happy in queues. But I want to move on to a very important area where the challenges are really in line, and where the government in the last few days in buckets and buckets has come with leaks about what's going to happen. And I'm recording that there have been leaks all the way down to a few million dollars, which can clearly indicate that what tomorrow comes to the budget for the transport sector needs to be seen as a locust compared to the huge needs of the country, both in the city and in the country. In Saturday’s speech, the government announced its intention to comply with the government’s so-called ambitious proposal for the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019. With the explosive cost growth we've seen in recent years, with 80 pst. the cost increase from 2003 to 2010 for maintenance was actually out of date at the same time as it was adopted in the spring of 2009. I also record that the Center Party takes it as a saying that they have received 200 million. kr more for breed protection in 2011. This means that there will still be a lag on race protection from 2010 to approx. One hundred million. kr. When we know that the need for racial protection is 20 billion. kr, it is not so much to shout for the fact that you will continue to live by your own plan, which you promised to follow up on Saturday and the Prime Minister today at the latest. I also record that the government boasts of all the asphalting that is happening around the country. Yes, I'm very happy for every road that gets paved with new asphalt. To put it into perspective: Telemark has been asphalted 80 km of county road this year. But when we know that this road network consists of approx. 1,900 km away, that means that it will take more than 20 years before the entire road network is asphalted, and then you can well start again right away. It clearly shows that the seemingly ambitious is no longer so ambitious, however. As far as road safety is concerned, I am very excited whether the government will now take action to ensure that more than 12 km of motorways and 14.5 km of middle parts will be built in 2011 or whether we will continue to make progress at a speedy pace, in many places in Europe, when large-scale constructions are being made in relation to Norway. Only in Sweden they build approx. 200 km in the middle, and Swedish authorities believe that for every 50 km a human life is saved in traffic. This clearly shows that it is fully possible to grab hold of and do something to reduce the accidents and follow up the zero vision, by expanding the four-field motorways and the middle parts at a much greater pace than we are doing today. For well-being is most important, and by building a proper road and infrastructure, fewer people are also being severely damaged or killed in traffic. To do this, we have to make sure that we have the tools to do. We need to set up an infrastructure fund, deploy Public Private Cooperation as a development method, without tolls, and increase the annual budgets. It is difficult and expensive to build roads and railways when you have to deal with one government budget at a time. This is precisely why we need to put in place good schemes for project financing, where large-scale road and rail projects are financed independently of the annual budgets. In Sweden, the authorities finance new roads through loans from the National Debt Office. We should be able to do something of the same in Norway. For this reason, the Progress Party today promotes proposals to convert the State Road Service, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Works into State undertakings and to enable these undertakings to raise low-interest government loans to implement the necessary investments in infrastructure. The Progress Party will ensure that today’s and future generations receive the world’s best infrastructure, both on the road and rail. That's what real well-being is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2385	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now over. Storting takes a break in the negotiations until 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is definitely Inga Marte Thorkildsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2413	The President will draw attention to the fact that when you have to draw a line, where it is a line-up, it is a good idea to wait for the speaker to start, not just because you have to draw a line on the content – that could be an idea – but because the technique doesn't work until the speaker has entered the speaker's chair. At least with reference to the technique, the president thinks it's a trick, because if you don't get registered. But it was not attached to the first speaker, which is Inga Marte Thorkildsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2418	The debate today has been quite ideological, and that is good. I notice that the Right and Advance Party feel that it is unpleasant when we show what will be the consequences of their policies. But they can take it. The political differences in Norway are greater than many believe. It's not primarily whether you prioritize a few more dollars here or there that make up the difference between the red-green government and any government of the Right and Advance Party. The differences are far greater than that, and I think Erna Solberg let the cat out of the bag earlier here today when she described the Right View of the welfare state. While SV wants a welfare state that consists mainly of universal schemes – for all – Right more needs testing, where the objective, as described by the Erna Solberg marine, will be to limit the use of the schemes. That's why Right-wing wants cut off the disability benefit and to wind up the system of free learning material. That's why they were against the maximum price and the rights attaching of the nursery service, just to mention something. The Right Party and the Advance Party want massive tax reliefs, mostly for those who have a lot from before, and are in charge of more zero-taxors. Commercial actors will have a great deal of freedom to profit from sick people, drug addicts, the elderly and school students. Community funds shall contribute to the profits of multinational companies that will operate Care and School AS. It is claimed that this should help to improve the public sector, but we have seen the results of this policy. This is old new, it's been tried before. The combination of well-being cuts, privatisation, unfair tax havens and a less regulated working life in countries has increased class divisions, leading to more insecurity and less equality between women and men. This isn't scare propaganda, it's just to find out the party programs and to check the history books. I noticed that the leader of the Progress Party tried to present our resistance to market thinking in the welfare field as a resistance to people's freedom of choice. This testifies to a narrow view of the welfare state. If it is that Jensen's progress party cannot see that the public sector, together with non-profit-making ideals, can develop a variety of choices for its own inhabitants, then they do not have the strangest visions. For my grandmother, who lives in the right and advanced party-driven Oslo, it doesn't matter if she can choose a private home helper instead of a public one, if the two do exactly the same job and she's not particularly excited about any of them. The important thing must be that she has the ability to influence the content of the services, that she knows who is responsible when things do not work, and that she gets an offer that is proportionate to the needs she has. The advantage of a well-developed public offer, with long-term contracts with non-profit actors, is that we don't have to waste the community's resources to contribute to the profits of the owners, that as elected representatives we get better control of the offer, and thus that people can better place responsibility when the services are not good enough. But it might be just this right-hand side fear. Perhaps it is precisely to avoid liability that they are the foremost exponents for the fragmentation of tasks between a mill of offices and actors in the capital of the country. As far as I know, there are 14 actors only in the field of transport. Solberg tried to make it appear that only the oil money has made Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in, with Europe’s lowest unemployment. It is a major simplification and an attempt to depoliticise policy. History is full of examples of countries where wealth and raw materials have become a curse to the population. In Norway, we had in our time foresight politicians who took control of the resources, set up state companies, ensured that the rent fell to the people and distributed wealth fairly through the development of universal welfare schemes and redistribution. The Right Party and the Advance Party want a break with all of this. That is the reality. The way in which we have organised society in Norway, with systematic efforts at Community solutions, relatively small social differences – although still too large – and well-organised work with a high level of organisation, are thus called the Norwegian model. The Norwegian model was long regarded as a loser model of neoliberal economists and politicians. It is now recognised by increasing numbers as the most successful model of society in Europe. This way of organising society has contributed to social mobility, an efficient and profitable business and a high level of population competence. Gender equality policy is also central in this model, with state regulation and a strong welfare state. Women's entry into the labour market has had an immeasurably greater impact on the economy than all the oil and gas combined. So when the Progress Party will complete all gender equality work in public, it will have consequences for equality in Norway, but it will also have consequences for the economy. To point out this isn't scare propaganda, but the facts, and it's very good that we finally get these debates up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2435	Everyone should be confident that the community will set up when we need help, treatment and care. It is your health that will determine what kind of offer you get, not where you live, or how much money you have. We don't want money and the market to control people's health services and opportunities. We must offer modern and safe treatment for all. Several of the health services that are important are close to you — especially if there are services you rely on to use frequently — will come close to you. Through the Interaction Reform, services should also be better coordinated than we currently see. When you need specialised, advanced treatment, you need to be sure that you get it in a hospital specialised for this, so that the possibilities of a good treatment result and good follow-up are the very best. In Norway, the director and worker receive the same medical treatment in the same hospital. That's still the way it should be. Through targeted increased efforts, we are going to equalise the social health differences that we still unfortunately see here in the country. Then we cannot weaken the income of the community by prioritizing tax reliefs of tens of billions. The right-hand side has no scruples in the implementation of strong shrinkage of public services. The lust of big tax cuts and the strong degree of privatisation are ahead of everything. It's not exactly considering that everyone's going, that's what's going on in the yard. I think otherwise that the speaker before me, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, had a good description of just this. We need a large and active public sector to ensure security for everyone. We need equivalency in the welfare offer across the country. We need a robust and sustainable local economy to strengthen service provision and improve quality, as the census clearly describes. We need the current tax level, and we need not least the Norwegian model. Never before have more people been treated in Norwegian hospitals than now. However, many people wait too long for treatment, which is also linked to an increase in the number of people referred to for treatment, including treatment. due to new and most recent treatment methods. It works every day to reduce the waiting time for diagnosis and treatment. But we're going to do even more to reduce the waiting time. This has been a very high priority. We do not believe that either tax relief or private market management is the answer to health cows. Nor will we support activities that will profit from people's disease. Nor will there be any more doctors, caretakers or money to use commercial actors instead of the public, nor will it be cheaper. Health policy is not industrial policy, at least not as we red-green see it. But also in the future, we want to have a good partnership – I want to express it this way – with ideal actors and others. The celebration clinic is a good example. There, the Minister of Health and Care ensures predictability now through a four-year framework agreement, while at the same time being responsible for a project related to lifestyle change. It is also not primarily big tax cuts that the elderly caregivers and their relatives demand. We will assist municipalities through increased free revenues and grant schemes to ensure the staff needed in the home and institutions, because good staffing is very important in order to ensure quality and security of services. The increase in the number of annual work has been strong in the care sector in recent years, which has not least been important for the benefit of the many young people in need of help. The vast majority of the elderly want to live in their own homes for as long as possible, but those who need a day-old nursing home or a nursing home will get it. We will ensure full coverage by 2015. The development is on track, and the government is very clear that the Husbank's commitment framework will be extended if necessary and the application procedure so requires. It is very positive to note the great enthusiasm it is both professional and political around the country around the Cooperation Reform. It is impressive how well it works in and between municipalities and in partnership with specialist health services and other actors. Now the government has announced new and significant state transfers next year to the reform work around the country. In a few months' time, the organisational, legal and economic frameworks for the reform will be clear. But most important to succeed is the competence, creativity and willingness to cooperate locally. And what happens out there promises very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2458	The government is alerting health and care efforts. Among other things, the cooperation reform should now be made concrete. As a superior and heart specialist at a local hospital in Telemark, I would like to say that we are already working well with our first line. A mutual division of tasks has evolved in our area for 100 years, adapted to each other's capabilities and competences. I don't think local medical centres combined with the reduction of local hospitals will help the population of small municipalities to improve their health supply. Instead, I think this will dampen the districts of valuable health professional competence. In our area, we also see local ideal predators disappear, which further weakens local competence. There's an emphasis on a real freedom to live wherever you want. Yes, a district political lift is announced. It is difficult to see how this harmonizes with a strong centralisation of specialist health services, emergency functions and health preparedness. A security base must be in readiness, even when nothing happens. Today's financing system is built around the price per person. patients. The Christian People's Party has on several occasions pointed out that market thinking and business models are not beneficial for good patient treatment, do not benefit political priorities in healthcare, nor do citizens benefit from good interaction. The Health Minister was very concerned about waiting lists, in particular reducing them. My opinion as a hospital doctor is that such a focus within somatic services will reinforce the efforts of the simple surgical interventions of relatively healthy persons. Remember that there is only planned business that is at all on some waiting list. All immediate help, of course, goes beyond the waiting lists. This is half of the admissions to a local hospital. Nor are check hours for chroniclers, day-care series for cancer patients or rehabilitation in learning and mastering centres included in the waiting lists. A strong focus on this small part of the specialist healthcare service helps turn resources to the freshest. Strong commitment to waiting lists and waiting times is an active depriorisation of chroniclers, cancer, rehabilitation and emergency functions. Psychiatry does not have price financing, and waiting times can be used as a tool to monitor health business priorities. I noticed in the health minister's intervention that her strongest instrument seems to be that she will follow closely the development of child and youth psychiatry in the Health West. Yeah, I'm sure it'll be all right. Emergency preparedness is an important task for local hospitals. The price-based funding has no funding for preparedness, only for patients who are actually being deployed. Economic balance requirements are combined with non-financing of response costs, and this will in turn contribute to the centralisation of emergency functions and preparedness. Good and safe standby requires watch 24 hours a day all year. In the hospital, income comes only when accidents and disasters occur or when a sufficient number become acutely ill. You can imagine a parallel that Storting's security service only got money per. bomb found! Fortunately, in Norway there are too few bombs per month to finance a security service. Then no one suggests that preparedness should be price-funded. In hospitals, the situation is different. In pig-grown areas — and many of them in Norway — not enough are affected by accidents and injuries at night and weekends to bear these emergency costs. In most of North Norway, in the interior of the West and in my own state of Telemark, readiness is not profitable. In these areas, medical coverage is also very low outside hospitals, medical guards are under pressure, and there are geographic challenges. In the further work on the Interaction Reform and Health Plans, it is important that competences, emergency functions and preparedness are given structural resources and attention. Without this, emergency services will be too weak, and the ability of the population to get help quickly will be undermined. Waiting times are important for the few to do so, but affect only a small part of the specialist offer. The Christian People's Party believes that regional health companies have had a function for a period of time, but now to the benefit of patients – and the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2487	For the Workers' Party, it is good to see that the Norwegian model works, that it produces good results, and that it strengthens people's sense of security and equality. It gives individual freedom in everyday life. Market liberalism has shown us that it has never given people ‘better place’ to whom the representative Siv Jensen is concerned, or greater security and freedom. It has never given people a better everyday life, except for a few very few – people with a lot of money in their wallet. In Norway, we have small social differences compared to other countries. We have low unemployment at low prices, we have good economic development, high production and economic growth. The model also provides space for equivalency in the welfare offer across the country. It is therefore understandable that the right-wing parties and their supporters see that the model appeals to people and therefore wants to take ownership of the model and the welfare society. The problem is that the model is based on some assumptions: It is based on the fact that good welfare schemes are paid through a relatively high level of taxation. It is based on a large and active public sector. It is based on tripartite cooperation between the country, the employee and the employer. As long as the right side consistently challenges the model of attacking these pillars, it is not a credible defender of the welfare state and community. The large tax cuts to the right-hand side weaken the whole basis for good welfare schemes paid by the community. The representative of Solberg today says that the distinction in Norwegian policy does not concern whether a person will have a welfare state and a community or not — well, but it is therefore not possible to maintain the welfare state that today and further develop it, while at the same time providing solid taxes. So then the representative Solberg has to choose what she wants most, and not tell people that they can get both, because that's impossible. The representative of Solberg has also today confirmed that we do not even agree on what the welfare state is. She believes that education is not part of the welfare state – and then we fundamentally disagree. For kindergarten, primary school, secondary education, higher education and university is an important support and clearly a large part of the welfare state. I want to point out a chronicle that Professor Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe had in today's business. She says in this chronicle that John Fredriksen's statements on taxes have received more attention than they deserve. She says that those opposition politicians who are untrustworthy and have little critical spirit with statements of support for Fredriksen should have thought again. She also points out that Norway’s growth and value creation have surpassed all countries in Europe, that the majority of the assets in Norway have been created in the last 20 years, and that the explanation is not just oil. She says, ‘I have the benefit of being present in a boardroom where taxes alone determine where to move or establish a business. Tax is the price we pay for civilization. Norway offers well-functioning institutions, objective public procedures, low-bureaucratic systems, stable economic policies, highly skilled labour, good conditions for conversion, and high and evenly distributed purchasing power.» The slogan of the Workers' Party ‘Do your duty, claim your right’ is equally valid today. We want a society where efforts are to be rewarded, but everyone has to be guaranteed a basis for a safe and dignified life. It gives individual freedom. That's good life. We've done a lot, and we're actually proud of it, but we're not satisfied. Work remains, and we want to fold up the sleeves and do that job. The Energy and Environment Committee has recently returned from Brazil, and it was a good and instructive trip. There are several questions and answers that have stuck in my head after that trip. Nelson Mandela once said that we must solve the world's climate and environmental challenges, we must solve the world's poverty challenges. It's the same thing. Brazil is a growing country, but facing major poverty challenges that need to be solved. They have that in common with many other countries in the world. At the same time, they have to take care of the environment, not just for themselves, but for all of us. That is why I am pleased that as a nation, we are world leaders in several key climate areas and are also at the forefront in the conservation of rainforest. Climate problems are international and therefore need to be addressed internationally. But we in the rich countries must take responsibility for this at home. We say that when there is an agreement on the table, Norway will be carbon neutral in 2030. That's why it's amazing that the representative Siv Jensen says that the climate ambitions are abandoned and that we don't have any tools. Then she says that it might be just as good that it is so – it says more about the relationship of the Progress Party to the climate challenges and their view that the climate challenges are not man-made than it says about the red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2529	Although Norway today has a high level of oil wealth, there is no disagreement that the highest value and guarantor of sustainable well-being lies in the work of each of its inhabitants. For us as individuals, it's a certainty to have a job to go to, a salary that ensures that we can pay our bills and thereby provide our families with security. Jobs for each of us provide tax revenue to countries and municipalities that finance schools, hospitals, roads and other welfare goods – tax revenue allows society to have good safety nets for those of us who, for various reasons, cannot be part of the working life for shorter or longer periods. This is a society and a welfare state that Right wants both to secure and to further develop. We are proud to have contributed to a development and a society that other countries want to learn from. It is important to ensure future well-being, as we can expect that government expenditure will be greater than its revenues from 2020. A coming wave of old age in combination with falling oil revenues gives us this scenario, and for the Right this means that we need to work actively to make economic development in the future as robust and sustainable as possible in this decade. Faced with these challenges, the country needs a policy and a government that is able to take action – both on the expenditure side, in the form of the most efficient public sector as possible, and on the income side, by providing a good level of education and by facilitating innovation and growth in business and industry that gives jobs to its citizens. We had therefore expected a more offensive policy than the political signals associated with the opening of the Storting. Unfortunately, in these signals there were no signs of renewal of government policy. I listened to the speech of the throne and to the various messages and legislative proposals that were announced for this big year. I heard what was announced was coming, but I also noticed that it was not mentioned the work on a coming petroleum message, which the oil and energy minister has previously announced would come around the turn of the year, possibly early in the spring of 2011. I hope this is not a signal that the petroleum message is further exposed. It's been about seven years since the Stortinget last had the opportunity to discuss visions, goals and strategies for the country's most remote industry. In 2009, this industry accounted for about one third of the country’s income through taxes, levies and direct holdings, with each fourth investment crown coming within that sector. More than 200,000 people live in almost all the municipalities of the country work directly or indirectly in this industry. Our State pension fund abroad, such as has given us scope for action to limit the damage caused by the financial crisis, has taken its wealth from the resources on the base. I am surprised to note that the government does not consider it appropriate to provide guidance signals and ambitions to take out the potential that the petroleum industry represents in the future – both in terms of resources, jobs and revenues. Recently, the so-called Åm Committee presented 44 points for increased extraction rates in existing fields on the socket. The initiation of this work is affordable, but active policies must be followed up, and since several of the fields are described as time-critical in view of the possibilities to increase the rate of exploitation, this is not something that governments can only wait for – this is where action needs to be taken. For every percentage we manage to increase the extraction rate, according to the Oil Directorate, this will generate a net income of between 100 and 150 billion. kr. The Åm sample estimates the gross values of increased extraction rates up to 60 pst, to staggering 7000 billion. kr. In view of the challenges that await us after 2020, from the Right, we have an impatience after action is taken, and we ourselves have several proposals to do so, both to increase the extraction rate in existing fields and to facilitate the opening of new, attractive exploration areas on the base. It is important for the right to strengthen research activity in the petroleum sector. Experience shows that a crown used for research in this field returns the highest value. Norway is an energy storm power, and we have, among other things, built up a large power-processing industry with the basis of our hydropower. Right wants us to pursue an active policy that provides a secure energy supply to its citizens and businesses, but also that we can further develop and increase energy production – either for increased exports to our neighbouring countries, or as an input to new industry in Norway. In this respect, it is important that policies provide for the active organisation of increased production and infrastructure in the form of efficient network structures and cable connections in Norway as well as abroad. In the energy field, we can, on the right hand, regret the insidiousness shown by the government, both in terms of progress in the creation of a common green certification market with Sweden, the negotiations with the EU on the renewable directive, the constant postponement of the introduction of advanced power measurement systems that will provide opportunities for energy efficiency improvement – Norway is, in fact, the only country in the EU that has not yet set itself energy efficiency improvement targets – and not least an excessive process of concession requests for new production. We have encouraged the Minister of Oil and Energy to review these matters repeatedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2550	"I have to work if I'm to carry my life. All my days of life, as long as I can remember, I have worked, and it has been my best and only joy," wrote Henrik Ibsen. Yes, work is the basis for so much. It's about value creation, profit, income, distribution, joy and well-being. Those who now insist on saying that this was not a theme in the languages of the throne may not have read or heard the speech. We have a high level of employment and low unemployment. It's not a matter of course, even though someone is expressing this in the debate. We have high productivity, we have skilled and competitive companies, we have a workforce that competes internationally, and we have companies and environments that invest. Norway has the highest value creation in the EU. Labour productivity in Norway is over 50 pst. higher than the EU average. Productivity is not only what is done by enterprise efforts, but it is also an expression of how society is shaped. Our whole social model is an important contribution to high productivity and good competitiveness. This is undoubtedly one of many reasons why Norway has been successful through the financial crisis. It is therefore far too easy when the representative Solberg refers to the oil and gas activities and their revenues as the almost only reason why we got well through the crisis. I want to add: the research effort is strengthened; $22.5 billion. kr is now used for research. We have strengthened and developed schemes that support business. Innovation Norway, GIEK and Enova are good examples of this. I also think it is worth mentioning what a strong public sector has meant as a cyclical damper in the context of the financial crisis, not least with regard to employment in the private sector. And not least the importance of pursuing a responsible economic policy. We have succeeded far better than most – not unilaterally because of oil and gas, but because of a whole. We have Europe's lowest leave. High productivity, broad knowledge and a good and responsible economic policy based on accountability and mutual trust between authorities, employers and employees are particularly important in such situations. Mutual accountability and trust in the working life of tripartite cooperation are not natural. It's about trusting each other. The right-hand parts have made it easy to forget this. I am therefore surprised that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, in a reply to the representative Helga Pedersen, is trying to testify that the Labour Party is listening to the trade movement. It was not better for the representative to continue his response by misusing his own batch program through a strenuous attempt to expound the party’s own program formulations on the impairment of employees’ rights. It is not natural to trust the social partners. That is a political priority. Yes, we listen to the trade movement, and yes, we listen to the employers, and we base our policies on trust and long-term. I would so strongly recommend both the Right Party and the Advance Party to listen more to the social partners. And the right parties haven't abandoned their previous principles. No, they just don't want to talk about them. Because I've also listened to what the Right says. The right-wing enterprise spokesperson stressed the need for temporary employment and that more would be agreed locally in the employee-employee meeting on the small part of the NHO. The census was an indication of the opposite, of stability and continued confidence building to underpin future value creation. The basis for stability and loyalty and economic integration lies there. It is entirely relevant to bring forward in the debate on the subject of persuasion. The government clearly announced through the census that the main field of activity in the future is work and a more inclusive working life. Increased value creation and increased investment ambition are at the heart of business policy. Many ideas are created in Norway. It's creativity, and it's new business areas created through ideas, research and technology development in Norway. There's a lot of investment, and we're winning new production sites. A good example is REC. However, we should recognise that the challenge in the future is to transform even more of the ideas into commercial productions. A single instrument must, as far as possible, be aimed at helping the good ideas at a commercial stage. Therefore, a pragmatic approach to the system and the assessments to be made in the future is essential. Increased value creation is at the heart of business policy. The government has started the work. Improvements are being made to adapt to future value creations. Yes, even the simplification work that has been criticised by this pulpit today has been reinforced in the current year. I can add that, for the period 2006-2009, measures were launched that have saved businesses for 300 million. NOK in reporting costs. I have to admit that I am looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2567	Norway is largely a good country to live in. But in many areas we are unfortunately moving in the wrong direction. Health cows increase, roads fall due, schools fall due, churches fall due, and we lose many jobs abroad because of poor competitiveness. At the same time, we face major challenges in the years to come, including: due to an ageing population. These developments may result in reduced service provision and/or higher taxes. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said in his speech that it is important to renew, improve and strengthen. Those are great words that I don't fully understand the content and what to do in the light of that. The Prime Minister also stressed that the government is busy red tape. It's also a censure that's hard to see in practice. It's possible that part of the government is busy with this, but the numbers indicate that there's about nothing being done. On the contrary, development is in the wrong direction. In the local government sector, administrative settings increased from 2006 to 2009 from 44 212 to 46 711. There are 2,500 more bureaucrats, and a percentage increase of 5.7 pst. This is done at the same time as adding water, sewerage and sanitation, fire protection, accident protection and transport in municipalities are reduced by 1.6 pst. When one looks at the county council, the number is even worse. The number of administrative settings has increased by 17.1 pst. during the same three-year period. And more bureaucracy, of course, means less and worse services to the inhabitants, given that we have the same sum to distribute. Why have we been given such a development? There's probably a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons is that we have too many inappropriately small municipalities in this country. There are also municipalities that are paid by the State to be inappropriately small, in the form of both small municipal grants and basic grants. Speeches are also clear when administrative costs are borne by municipalities. For the 100 smallest municipalities, administrative and administrative costs are on average NOK 9 287 per capita, while for the 100 largest municipalities, costs are NOK 2 972. This means that, on average, the 100 smallest municipalities have more than three times the administrative costs per capita than the 100 largest municipalities. Small municipalities also face major challenges in implementing new welfare technologies due to resource shortages, and they will have problems in establishing a good professional environment. Therefore, it is high time that the state used financial instruments and set up carrots to achieve sensible and voluntary municipal convergence. Fewer municipalities will also make it easier to get rid of the county. Of course, there are other things than fewer and larger municipalities that are important, and it is that one has to make it easier to make it easier for larger municipalities to operate effectively. It goes without saying that one has to simplify the law and regulation, but the other, which is even more important, is simply that one has to facilitate competition. We have now been explained by several people that, unfortunately, from the red-green plurality, an allergy to private solutions, against competition, against ideal and private solutions taking over. Therefore, if one does not use the instrument to recognise that competition is healthy, and that competition helps both to reduce costs and to improve the quality of services, it will probably increase red tape and administrative costs in the years to come. As long as you're against it, it doesn't help to repeat over and over again that you need to renew, improve and strengthen, and it also doesn't help to underline and repeat that the government is busy debureaucratic when nothing is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2586	The previous speech was concerned with what he thought was due. I hope he can be pleased that in one area it is going up, namely on the FIFA ranking after Drillo took over responsibility for the national team. The most important task of the policy is to contribute to people's work. Here the government has succeeded. No other country has such a large proportion of the population in productive work. No one has so few in the queue. We have avoided the transition of the international financial crisis to an unemployment crisis, as our neighbouring countries experience so painfully. The government's management of the financial crisis, which received broad support here in Stortingen, led us safely through the downturn. It provides a good starting point for continuing to defend, strengthen and renew the basis for future value creation and well-being services. That is the second main task of policy. There's still a lot that should get better in our society. Older people don't get the sick place they need. It is children who have to live too long in care failure. It is drug users who are not helped to get out of their demeaning situation. The network is too old-fashioned and too poor. There are too many road sections that are congested and dangerous to traffic. All of these challenges can be met through a reinforced effort. While the countries around us have to cut their budgets with ax, we can expand the rail network and the roads for 10 billion. kr more every year ahead than we could afford before the financial crisis hit. It's not primarily the oil wealth that's why we're in this particular situation here in the country. That's the policy. In 2005, a majority of the Norwegian people made an important choice. They would rather have a stronger community than more tax relief. That is the main reason why we have been able to invest more resources in all key areas of society. The special feature of this debate is that the opposition does not demand a different political stance from that presented by the government. They want more Soria Moria. They criticise the government for not speeding up the implementation of the objectives of the government platform. The recognition of right-wing parties as a welfare party must be understood in the light of the 2005 elections. After four years with the Bondevik government's 20-billion-dollar priority. kr in tax relief rather than strengthening welfare services taught the right parties that voters leave the parties that weaken the community. Therefore, they are now profiling themselves as welfare parties. And then they tempt with something in addition: lower prices of well-being in the blue shop than in the red-green shop. If there's anyone who thinks they can get more for less, I'll recommend a study trip to Fredrikstad. There, the Progress Party and the Right were given responsibility after the 2007 elections for the promise to eliminate property taxes while there was going to be more money for school and care for the elderly. They said they knew how to do it, but that knowledge must have disappeared on the night of the election. In fact, the property tax has been reduced somewhat, but it is not gone, and with a prospect of 100 million. kr in deficit this year – the third year in a row of deficits – the municipality faces extensive reductions in care services, at school – yes, so to speak in all areas. The Norwegian model of society with a strong community for which we must all be and pay is undermined by weakening the foundation to secure funding. The strength of that foundation is called taxes and taxes. What the right party is doing is to represent the safe and well-known welfare society at cheap sales. The second important pillar of the Norwegian model is cooperation between a responsible trade union movement, responsible employers and the authorities. This is a competitive advantage we have to take care of. But then you can't attack professional rights and weaken the fight against unprofessional work, as we saw under the Bondevik government. What are the alternative policies of the right-wing parties to ensure value creation and good enough welfare services? Right Erna Solberg said that we should get more money back through the outsourcing of the tasks. We recognise Minister of Local Councillor Solberg's demands for more efficient municipalities, municipalities that have been carrying out conversion and efficiency for decades. The Progress Party's Siv Jensen talked about reform needs, but only pointed out that it needed more money and more earmarking and that market thinking had to be brought into the care of the elderly. So the alternative is to leave more of the job to private companies that are going to compete with the municipalities for the appropriations from the state fund. At least it does not require less money in the treasury if private companies are also to be financed by the community. There could be reason to rejoice that the right-wing parties too are ending up in a community model with a strong community. But if we're going to be able to take it seriously, they also have to recognize the central pillars on which this model rests. They do not do so when offering it cheaply and in various ways underestimates and weakens the role of the social partners to function both in terms of employment and value creation and in terms of the security of the basic welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2616	The President can safely suggest that the next time, the amount of tax relief can be adjusted to 23 billion. I'm a little uncertain as to whether it will strengthen or weaken the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2619	It is a great privilege as an alternate representative to be able to participate in the persuasion debate and the presentation of the State budget. But I have to admit that I am somewhat disappointed in Saturday's speech. The language of the throne will be about the broad lines of government policy for the coming year. Then it is rather disappointing that it does not notify anything very new. Particularly disappointing is the fact that the speech was out of policy to reduce child poverty. I noted that the government in its State of the State Communication communicated that it has carried on in 2010 and stepped up the special effort to prevent and overcome poverty. But for the rest of us in Norway, who are not in the government, it is difficult to discover what this effort is. A year ago, Trine Skei Grande and I presented a package of measures to reduce child poverty. Because even though we live in one of the richest countries in the world, the number of children growing up in poor families in Norway is increasing. As many as every three children with a non-Western background live in households with income below the poverty line. This is a problem that we, as the national parliament of the country, have a duty to take seriously. It is disappointing when the majority of this assembly does not have the power to do anything for the weakest. When the Left's proposal was discussed in March, SV's representative Karin Andersen admitted that they ‘Even built expectations in relation to the poor that we have not met. I regret that, and I understand that they are disappointed."This was stated by the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen to TV on 21 August 2009. It's nice that SV understands us others, but it does little for the poor children. Instead of discussing the proposals we have made, they are hiding behind investigations and consultations conducted by the government. Once again, when I'm standing here on the pulpit, it's time to ask where this bet has gone. It is embarrassing that a government that flakes with well-being over tax havens has no intention of doing anything about 85 000 children living in households with income below the poverty line. It's probably starting now to be about the will, not just the ability. At the same time last year, the Left promoted a proposal for a representative to step up efforts to combat school drop-outs. Increased efforts are needed in the fight against apostasy. In the view of the Left, non-response is one of the main challenges facing Norwegian society, both from a welfare perspective and from a knowledge perspective. When about one in three young people falls outside, there are not only numbers, but also human creatures. I myself have been one of those who was close to becoming a drop-out, but because of good follow-up from teachers I was able to complete. I see that there is a broad consensus in this room that we're going to do what we can to bring down the apostasy. In the census, it was underlined that it is essentially to get more people to complete secondary education. It is therefore strange to me that, in dealing with this proposal for a representative, the parties to the government will not take seriously all ten concrete proposals from the Left to combat non-response. The challenges we face require an effort from everyone. It requires a political virtue where a layer of broad compromises. I would like to invite that on behalf of the Left once again, even though it seems that the government is not at all willing to listen when the opposition is promoting good proposals regarding the fight against apostasy. It's sad, especially for the many that fall out. The government should listen to and take up suggestions, even if they come from opposition politicians, and should it not be allowed to go ahead with the fact that it itself did not come up with the good ideas? In the context of the review of the next year’s government budget, the Left will propose a number of measures to increase the implementation of higher education, including: several specialised educators, strengthening the role of teachers, more practical training in school life and a strengthened school health service. I would once again encourage the red-greens to support our proposals. It will show that they take the challenges seriously, and not just throw around in fine words on the paper. Finally, I would like to comment on the topic that has been discussed here today, namely that private and non-profit actors should provide welfare services to a much greater extent. In September we could read in the evening post that SV's parliamentary leader would 'have a shift of line for a conscious effort in the non-profit private sector'. That's good and a line change Left wishes to welcome you warmly. But is it only organisations that have only an ideal purpose, that Solhjell tolerates? For me, such a restriction becomes an artificial ideological obstacle to better welfare services. One example is the Mestrings Houses, which are involved in drug treatment. The masturbators are not run by a non-profit organization, but by firefighters who themselves have had personal knowledge of drug addiction and who therefore want to help others. It is difficult to understand the great difference between such a clinic and a clinic run by the Salvation Army. It is incomprehensible which private care the government accepts and which they do not want. The debate today has also not been elucidating as to where the government actually stands. I would therefore challenge the government to be clear on which welfare actors it accepts and which it does not accept, and not least why.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2648	The President will draw attention to the fact that terms such as ‘stained’ or ‘stained’ are considered to be unparliamentary and should therefore be avoided. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2653	I've learned not to judge politicians by the visions they have, but what they do when they have power. The representative Raja has expressed in many contexts concerns about multicultural Norway. So did his party leader in his speech earlier in the throne debate. But in Oslo, which I represent, and which is the place of Raja's residence, the Left has been involved in a massive decline in municipal housing. You see the beginning of a segregated housing pattern. They've been involved in strangling the money for the neighborhoods. Well, that's in the urban areas integration is happening. The Left Party also participated in the introduction of gender equality traps, poverty traps, integration traps and cash support when they were in government. 80 pst. by the two-year-olds in Oslo for whom cash support is provided, have a migrant background. We know that prevents Mother from learning Norwegian and participating in the labour market and young people from participating in kindergarten. Clearly, life and learning are not entirely linked to the representative Raja and his party. How does the representative explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2662	I am very happy in this city, in which I am born and raised, and of which I am a part. I am pleased that I can move freely in this city, and I am happy to be able to participate in the integration debate. I don't recognize myself in the reality description that the representative Hadia Tajik just gave here. The left has guaranteed a better integration policy throughout the years with which the Left has had a word in the team of the City Council of Oslo. I think the representative of Hadia Tajik knows that too. For me, this polemics becomes without any substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2669	And then the next replicator.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2673	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2678	If the representative wants a new line, that is access to it. Please, Abid Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2683	I noticed that the representative did not answer the question. I say the party left doesn't put the big money where they put the big words. And to take another example, when we're still in the process: I record that the representative Raja is concerned with poverty among kids, he was concerned about it in his post. When this is important to the representative Raja, why was the Left Party involved in cutting support for free core time from the state when they were in government? A study has been published today to show that girls with a migrant background who have taken advantage of this offer are doing better in school than those who have not used it. If the fight against poverty among young people is important to the representative of Raja, it must also be important for him to have equal opportunities for all young people to succeed in school. They must then have equal opportunity to participate in free core time, participate in kindergarten and get the Norwegian skills they need in order to succeed in working life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2690	The President regrets the confusion with Hadia Tajik's name, which was not meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2693	I think the representative, Tajik, should get involved in how, for example. the schools perform in different surveys carried out. Oslo is very successful in most school surveys. When it comes to combating child poverty, on which Tajik is involved, I am very happy that she touches that theme. We have already made ten specific proposals last year. There were proposals for a guaranteed minimum income, citizens’ salaries, proposals for a minimum standard and new criteria for social assistance rates, proposals for home banking, social banking, proposals for repurchase houses, proposals for differentiated child benefit, proposals for differentiated prices in kindergarten and SFOs, proposals to facilitate the combination of work and social security, proposals to increase the age limit in the case of components of health care and pay in the case of children’s disease, proposals to strengthen child protection and proposals for increased bet on voluntary supplement. What I'm recording is that Tajik talks about the past and refuses to deal with what is the core issue today, that we have 85 000 children living below the poverty line. The government has no power to do anything about this. On the contrary, they have not voted for the good proposals that we have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2702	I share Mr Raja's commitment to poverty. One of the best measures to combat poverty is a decent wage. The left is against social dumping and will have more competition in terms of wages and salaries. What the Left thinks about working life, we got an example of when the Left put in government and tried to introduce 13 hours of work. Who, then, is going to pay the price of this policy? That's my question to the representative Raja. Who will work more and be forced to do it? Who's gonna make less money? Or do the Left really believe that so-called free wage competition does not push more families into poverty or bad advice? In that case, it will be a perception that the representative Raja shares with very few employees, who have little team in Norwegian welfare history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2711	It may be slower for the representative Raja today, but I did not fully understand the question. But I heard the key words "social dumping," and thought it would certainly appear, so I have prepared a short answer. The Left agrees that the Authority must be able to require the contracting authority to carry out a good and proper assessment prior to the conclusion of contracts and that the contracting authority requires their contractors to comply with applicable laws and regulations. What we have voted against is a regulation requiring all contracting entities to ensure that subcontractors/suppliers pay wages, cover a certain number of trips home, meals and lodgings, and comply with the regulations on the provision of services, etc. Firstly, this leads to an absolutely impossible situation for many enterprises. Secondly, there are also a number of legal security issues with regard to how an entity can actually demonstrate such control. Unfortunately, this is only a symbolic policy with no real content and has the sole consequence that a number of small businesses are unable to submit bids for assignments, because they do not have resources, the labour force to carry out a real control, as the legislation currently on paper is. There was at least an answer to the question of social dumping. The rest of the question I really didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2720	It may be authorised. Then I give the word to Snorre Serigstad Valen for clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2723	It might have been an answer to another question of social dumping than what I asked, but I commend the representative Raja for his honesty in saying that some things you say in the hall are prepared in advance, regardless of what is said in the debate. It brings my mind to another question that the Left has avoided answering during the debate, and which I would like an answer to by the representative Raja. It is that the Left wishes for a civil majority to be included in the Progress Party with its mildly diffuse climate policy. Why does the Left want to give the Progress Party a hand on the steering wheel of climate policy? What is it that makes the Left want to replace a red-green majority that spends billions on rainforest, CO2 management and protection, with a civil bloc that is constantly promoting proposals to remove what they call the strange requirements for CO2 clean-up, which will weaken Norway's climate commitments, and that even have problems admitting that man-made climate change is a problem? Does Left feel at home in company with the Advance Party in the bourgeois block? What is the Left willing to sacrifice?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2736	The representative Raja was born with a problem, and that's the problem of honesty -- he can't help but be honest. What I have noticed as a sitting alternate is that almost none of the representatives standing here answer the questions that are being asked. But now I understand the question, and I'm going to try to answer that, even though the representative here doesn't have to be so very proud of SV's environmental policy and what they've accomplished while they've been in government. I think this representative understands that, and that's probably why he rubs his cheeks a little too. But when it comes to this with a civil majority, I think everyone has understood that the Left does not want to go into government with the Advance Party if we do not get clarity in a couple-three things like that. is about immigration policy, which is about environmental policy, which is about the rule of action, about responsible economic policy. It's about political issues that make it impossible for us to go into government with the Progress Party as it is now. But if it turns out that you get full support from the Left Programme, there's nothing wrong with cooperating with one or the other. But it's about what kind of policies we get through, and it's our policy we go to elections. That is also the basis for any government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2743	I have a great deal of respect and sense for Raja's native honesty. It may make him able to clarify his answer further. I understood the representative Raja that if the Progress Party does not bring the Left through from immigration and aid policy to other issues, the Left will not support a government in which the Progress Party is involved. Does this mean that the Left, in a situation of bourgeois majority on the Stortinget, will rather tilt the scale the other way and seek cooperation with its red-green friends who stand far closer to the Left in climate policy? The reason I ask is that despite the fact that the representative Raja presents it as if SV has not had an impact on climate policy in government, we are light years ahead of the Left aligned when they, as a small party, were in government. I can imagine that the left and the left and the left still have a lot in common in that area. Will the Left go to the Red-Greens instead of the Right and the Advance Party if they do not get an impact on their entire political programme, as the representative Raja now gives the impression?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2749	In my short political work, I've come to realize that the Left may be the only party that's lost on an environmental issue. I think we should be very proud of that. At least we in the left are very proud of it. I also hope this representative here is very proud of that. As far as this is concerned by a civil majority, even though the Left is a small party now on the Stortinget, it consists of many members, many opinions, and we have something called democracy in Norway, and that democracy is also in the party. Whom to cooperate with and not cooperate with, I think the representative also understands to belong to powers over the alternate. But, as I have already explained, it is impossible to engage in government cooperation with the Progress Party when the distance is so great in terms of environmental policy, immigration and integration policy, and in terms of economic policy. The rule of action is a good key to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2756	In fact, I have always seen it so that if there is to be a civil government in Norway – which I am against – for the sake of order – I think it is good that the Left is in that government with regard to environmental policy. I know that in the debate on the right-hand side, the left-hand side is occupied with the environment, has a lot of commitment, and it makes a difference. I actually think that many left-wing people and many others also see, when it's a red-green government, that for the sake of the environment it's good if SV is in that government. I thought I would ask the representative Raja at the end of this round about the following: If only one looks at environmental policy – which is, after all, very important for both Left and SV and many others – does the representative Raja agree that it is better for environmental policy that SV is in government than that the Progress Party is in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2763	It feels like a very strange question to answer. But I can answer if I think it is good that SV is in government. The answer to that question is that in terms of the number of environmental camels that SV has had to swallow in government together with the Workers' Party, there are probably limits to how much they can swallow on until it should be unacceptable for SV to remain in such a government. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we still have not received an answer to the basic question from the leader of the Left, who asked a question to Siv Jensen this morning early — the question has been asked twice before — whether climate change is man-made. As long as the Progress Party is unable to decide on that question, and is unable to answer that question correctly, the distance is miles long, and I am glad that the representative Solhjell understands.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2770	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2773	Like children play best, it's said in the vocabulary. But in my and your Norway, it's just as natural that different kids play together. It's because there's been a policy that allows everyone to go to the same school regardless of background, everyone is offered kindergarten, both mother and father have equal opportunity to take education and participate in the work. The strong participation of women in our working life also promises society enormous value creation. In Norway, we have a social model that represents a willingness to change, efficiency and competitiveness in both co- and counter-winds. It is forward-looking and offers long-term economic security. Just these elements have contributed to the fact that we in Norway now do not go into a fight against higher retirement age or less money for school and care, as several other European countries do. In our different countries, we have a trade union movement that takes responsibility and warns the government against spending too much money in next year's government budget. Just the agreement between the LO and the Workers' Party represents the cornerstone itself in the Norwegian model. The LO leader, Roar Flöthen, calls for the preservation of competitive Norwegian jobs rather than fighting for higher wages and high subsidies to the public sector, because it can affect the competitiveness of industry. We in Norway have one everyday life the vast majority of people out there envy us. I spoke this summer with a highly educated man from Pakistan. He said, Else-May, how is it to be a politician in Norway, where there are so many parties with so little differences and how all is so organized and safe? How is it to stand in a campaign and be visionary in such a fairytale country? My answer is that in Norway we were one of the poorest countries in the world a hundred years ago. Because social elements such as equality, solidarity and freedom have been fundamental pillars, we have improved the living conditions of the Norwegian people year after year. But still we have social tasks we want to promise. We will continue to work to get those who are out of work to get into it. We will continue to get more women from part-time work to full-time work. We will continue to look for the best technological solutions to build skills and develop products that can conquer international markets. In the Workers' Party, we shall continue to fight against the right forces that are believers in wasting the whole framework we have built up. If it sounds like there are small political differences between the parties in Norway, I would say that we choose very different solutions, which contribute to great differences in people's everyday lives. I fear the Right's disparity policy. Where they still want to have a working environment that benefits father, and that doesn't raise a finger for equal pay, we'll do the opposite. I fear the selfish policies of the Progress Party. Where they want short-term gains, which can send the whole country back to the poor fund, we want long-term security for people's lives and economy. I am proud of the responsibility that the Workers' Party has taken by leading this country for much of its over a hundred years of construction. It's fine, but we're not vaccinated against the challenges ahead of us. The financial crisis has taken its place in an entire world economy, and there is reason to fear a double dip. Land by country is struggling to get on the rails again. The harsh priorities of right-wing countries in Europe now prevail are not popular among people. On the other hand, the Stoltenberg government has delivered measures that have helped to keep the wheels running both in the public and private sectors. The last package of measures that the government came with was the yard package for maritime nutrition, which amounted to a total of 10.2 billion. kr and increased the flexibility of the instrument, which the industry urgently needs. Now it's better for that industry, fortunately. In fact, the Norwegian model has contributed to people's future-optimism for many decades. It has contributed to small social disparities, low unemployment, low price increases, good business development, increased productivity and economic growth. The problem for the right-hand side of this model is that it is very complex and rests on pillars such as good welfare schemes, paid by a relatively high level of taxation and a strong public sector. It's the focus on creating to share what's our essence -- not Right essence: create to then la-oss-holding-all-self principle, which they're basing on. I'm genuinely afraid of the right-hand populist shopping from this community model, because they obviously don't see the whole thing. I was not very reassured, either, after hearing the representatives of Solberg and Jensen today. The Workers' Party will work to ensure that Norwegian society is also going well in the future. Then I have faith that we will take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2805	Then we're a good piece of this year's event in political colors and with relativity descriptions of reality. It's just as subtle and interesting every time. After listening to the position today, one would think that Norway was even more unique than what we might like to believe – perhaps even better than what we like to believe. It's either that or you might think that those of us who have seats here are not in contact with those who are politicians in local government or county councils. Or is it that the reality description we see in the media around is wrong, when you refer to municipalities that are struggling to provide their inhabitants with quality health care, when you see municipalities that are struggling to provide good school services, when you see municipalities that do not have full childcare where it is desirable? This is not only true in civilised municipalities, it is true to the degrees in municipalities ruled by the red-green ones. Then the question is, is there a wrong description? Or isn't that so? Is it an illusion that Kommune-Norge is struggling? I think the answer gives itself, no, it's not. I think there are many rapporteurs from the Red-Green parties who are not looking brightly forward to what will happen tomorrow, because they are quite aware that tomorrow will also present them with great challenges – challenges at the top of the challenges they already face at a time when things are tough. At the same time, I must be so clear that I will give tribute to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, whom I actually think was despicable also in the part where he describes the challenges that I have pointed out. He used other words than me, but he also admits that it's actually like that. I think politicians who have the ability to take it in and be honest in their description of what you see, come further and will have a better relationship with their voters than those who define a truth that is politically correct, regardless of how things are experienced out there. So a few words about defence and security policy. That's how it's probably the toughest and most difficult security policy challenge we have, Afghanistan. Our participation there costs everything from large financial amounts to people who give the most, who lose their lives through actions down there. At the same time, I don't think we're good enough to pay tribute to all the girls and boys down there who are making an effort, which has an ambition to make Afghanistan a better country to live in, to help Afghanistan become a well-functioning democracy. It will take a long, long time before it becomes a democracy in relation to what we are used to. But any contribution that can make Afghanistan better is a right contribution. And in that way, I think what we do through ISAF and other Norwegian contributions is very positive. That's why I'm very sorry when I see the debate that's been going on right now, where it's said that the attitudes of some of our soldiers down there are wrong, and that we're going to have some "triggerhappy" soldiers who are more concerned with killing people from the Taliban than building the nation of Afghanistan. I think it's sad, I think it's sad, and I think it's disappointing, especially by the Minister of Defense, in a way to go out and say that's the way it is. What kind of truth content is it necessarily in a VG statement? I've heard more than once in this room people who have claimed that VG is not necessarily the most despicable press agency we have here in the country. But here you go out, and then you essentially stamp the Norwegian quota. I think that's sad. I think it's gross, and I think it hits all those down there who want to do a job. They need honey. They need support, because they're willing to take a risk that none of us do. We can sit here and make our decisions and be satisfied with them afterwards. But there are few here who are exposed to the ultimate threat of in the worst case losing their lives through a political activity. That's the reality of some of those down there. In this way, I think it's intended to hear this kind of attack on those we have in Afghanistan. Another moment that I also think is important to take with me on this matter, our veterans are the ones who have served in various international operations out there. Are we good enough to take care of them? Once again, I think the answer will be no to all of them, most of them if you ask. I'm not saying that the government doesn't do things for it to get better, because you do. The question will be, Is that enough? Or would it have to be that we have to have a tragedy at home before we take it seriously? It has happened in other countries, where people who have been in conflict and have had tough experiences actually act against themselves and others in their neighbourhood. Do we have to go there before we realize the seriousness of this and take the necessary measures? I hope for everything in the world that it doesn't happen. But I'm worried that we don't have the necessary focus on this group, which, because of what they've experienced, is going to be in traumatic situations in much of their lives. They depend on us being as helpful on that side as they were when they went out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2820	When the Storting now starts the work in the 155th session, the starting point is well close, no matter which country we compare with. A few weeks ago, I attended a large conference in Finnmark. Former Prime Minister of Sweden Göran Persson was present and kept his post. He indicated that, at the same time as we put together in Finnmark, corresponding conference participants gathered in different parts of the world, conferences where a discussion of important questions for the future. His claim was: “All would like to trade with you.” When I look beyond the 155th Norwegian Grand Prix, and I think of all the national parliaments that take their seats around the world, it is tempting to make Göran Persson their words to me: they would all like to trade with you, change their own country's unemployment with a employment that is the highest in Europe, exchange their own nation's growing debt with our oil fund, have our potential for access to natural resources, and not least a population with labour productivity 46 pst. higher than the EU average. It is the competent and active human beings who are the real wealth in Norway, a wealth that we are to process by strengthening the school so that everyone can participate with their abilities, and that we are to develop through a focused effort on innovation and innovation, which will provide the basis for future prosperity and well-being. Norway has come through the financial crisis in a far better way than countries we can compare with. Is it random? No, no, no. The fact that we have managed with strict dosing of oil money during growth periods gave us room for action to put in place measures with the right strength at the right time when the crisis hit the Norwegian economy. «Too little, too late» was right then his mantra. Now I think we can agree that the government, with the impending finance minister at the head, hit well – in time. All people need to be set and contributed with their resources. Everyone needs to know security and proximity. The centre party took part in the red-green government to help create a society where individuals are used to build good communities and jobs around the world. Government policy means a difference for people in this country. To build the safe neighbourhoods with good kindergartens, schools, care for the elderly, creative cultural events and exciting workplaces, municipalities are all central. In the first half of 2010, there were 70,000 more people working in the Norwegian municipalities than in the first half of 2005, pre-school teachers and teachers, health and care workers, business developers and many more, people who every day do a great job so that exactly their municipalities are a good place to live and do business. Closeness to kindergarten, school, health and care services and a barber means security. People have to know that if they get sick, it's not far to the hospital, they have to know that the kids shouldn't sit on the school bus every day on a rascal road, and they have to know that when they need help, they put up the police and the waitress. We're concerned that people should know security in their community. We must therefore bet on local hospitals and local medical centres, local schools and local police throughout the country. The national health plan will be debated in this session, an important key message for the population across the country. All shall have access to high-quality specialist health services, independent of housing and personal finances. Closeness to health services is also the focus of the Interaction Reform. I think it's great when the district medical center in Valdres cooperates with the Inland Hospital on services related to dialysis, dermatology, ophthalmology, heart specialist and gynecologist. They use modern technology so that the center can have a close dialogue with specialists. They carry out 2 500 X-ray consultations each year at the centre of the Cernes. And we'll see more about that. This is why we need to implement the Interaction Reform, a reform aimed at preventing the use of the driver’s seat and providing better health to its citizens. As the Council of State in the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs, I can travel around the country and meet many of those who live and work in the communities that make up this wonderful country. I mean, I was in Finnmark. Finnmark is now the state of Norway that exports most per head. Work satisfaction, it does something about how we look at Finnmark, and not least, it does something about how people in Finnmark look at themselves. The government will strengthen such a development. We want to build the country further, and then we need a red-green government. I don't think the Right Party and the Progress Party would have increased the regional and regional policy instruments by over 50 pst, as we have done. I don't think they would have allowed half a billion kroner to broadband, and I know that they wouldn't have fought to get a differential employer's fee, as we've got. We're happy with the effort so far, and we have to move on!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2861	The municipal minister often says that the government and the municipal minister are concerned with local self-determination. It's not always true. When it comes to monster masts, when it comes to local hospitals, it doesn't always seem like – at least not the local politicians I'm in contact with – a feeling that one has a lot of local self-determination. In the Official Journal of today, one comes with an example of an older lady who is denied access to her own island paradise. She has become paralyzed and is therefore not allowed to establish a floating bridge, which is necessary for her to get to this island paradise. It's the countyman who saw his foot down here. The local politicians in this municipality have spoken to me today, and they say they're in despair. They feel that they are devoid of every possibility to control the beach sona, and that the countyman put his foot down, anyway. Is this a policy with which the Minister of State is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2870	I do not know the individual case to which it is referred from the representative's side, and I do not want to go in and comment on individual matters either. The government wants a differentiated beach zone policy, and we're working on it. The local authorities know that the government is in charge. We are not going to have the same policy in a scattered coastal area as we have in Oslo, where the pressure on the coastal zone is enormous. I cannot comment on the individual case, where it is and how it is designed. But it is important that the county councillor uses his or her health and, in this way, can also facilitate that those who need to meet the need that can be heard as if he or she has here – without me wanting to go into it more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2877	The Council of State took us on a journey in Norway, with the amazing opportunities we have. I agree with the Council of State on the descriptions. She also spent some time on the cooperation reform, which is an exciting reform that is now to be implemented. In this context, I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: it has been said that in order to fulfil the tasks of the Interaction Reform, we need a competence, a need for larger units, a need for cooperation across the municipal borders. The government has met this by saying that it will legislate a co-municipality, a co-municipality that will meet the needs that individual municipalities are unable to meet. Then the problem is that on June 24th, a unanimous central government in the KS – formerly the central federation of the municipalities – said no to the government's proposal on joint municipal councils. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: will the government promote a proposal for a joint municipal council as long as the municipalities themselves oppose this reform and feel that it is undemocratic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2887	We are currently working on completing the hearing statements when it relates to the co-municipal model. It has been a great commitment, and it goes in both directions. As the representative said, KS has turned its thumb down. It is, of course, aspects of the joint model that should and should be discussed – both positive and less positive. So finally, the government has to make a decision and bring a case to the representative and to the Stortinget that we are going to discuss here in the next round. As I pointed out in my post, the municipalities also have the power to find good solutions, regardless of host municipality models and community models. Both Ørland, Valdres and Alta – the three I mention, because I have been there in the fall – are shining examples of an ability to build good, local provision that saves people travel and saves us total costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2894	First, I would like to say that I wanted a little more humility from the red-green government councils and representatives here today in terms of the financial crisis and Norway's easier way through it than many other countries have. One of the important reasons we have come through so well is the fact that we have ‘outsourced’ industrial production of consumer goods and other goods to other parts of the world. They're the ones who pay the price because we can have as high a public job as we have. It requires a slightly greater humility from us. My question to the head of the Central Party and the Council of State is that today many of the speakers in the debate have drawn a picture that the big welfare debate in Norway is about one alternative on the left and one on the right. The question for the head of the Central Party will then be: Since the Central Party has often agreed with the Christian People's Party that the best solutions are in the centre, is the leader of the Center Party comfortable with the picture remaining after today's debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2901	Just a little comment on the first performance: It is clear that in a high-cost country like Norway, it would be natural that it is the more complex work that is done here. It is true that some of the less complex tasks are "outsourcing", as it is said, but we still have, fortunately, a living and great industry in Norway on which we are to build. And then I'm, like the representative, busy that we're going to have a strong center. I think that's where the best solutions are, and I think the best solutions are in a center-left solution, where the center party is. Christian People's Party chose the right side, chose to go in with Left and Right in a Right-dominated government. We believe that it is not where the best solutions exist for distribution, for volunteering, to show both national and international solidarity. To lift everyone, I think we'll find better solutions in the center-left. I think the five years we've been there show that we have a good center profile in a center-left government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2910	It sounded like the Council of State said that she liked a left-wing government the best, and I have a great understanding of that. But then she took a lot of time and spent most of her time explaining – she almost repeated – that you only liked the cooperation you enjoyed. We must take note of that and approve it. Then my question is: when the Workers' Party is talking about community reunification in order to achieve welfare for the future, it is entirely in line with what the Left has also said, that if we are to be able to keep our municipal welfare, if we are to be able to keep our local democracy, if we are to be able to get skilled professionals out in the municipalities, the units we have today are too small to deal with a new community of competences, which is what we need in the future. So to my question: when the Council of State thrives so well in cooperation with the Workers' Party, do you also share the Workers' Party's thoughts in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2919	We are quite a few in the government that municipal mergers should be voluntary. Where it is on the stairs now, is Indrey and Mosvik in Trøndelag. There are two central party leaders who have found out that it suits them and futures for those municipalities. That's what I thought was brilliant. We've had good dialogue all the way, and we've also had it with others who think about those bananas. I mean, this is evenly distributed. A good thing to think through out there. So it was interesting to read the Municipal Report a short time ago. They've created a barometer of best-service municipalities. On the school side, Flatanger came up high with some other small municipalities. In health, Ørland was high with other small municipalities. This way, you can take areas by region. In fact, the smaller municipalities cut the highest. Explain to the person who can - not so strange to me who travels around and meets them and sees that they are able to solve their tasks, either alone or in close and close cooperation with the neighbouring municipalities. So well some to join together, and that's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2928	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2931	Like the government parties, I'm going to talk about Right-wing policy. I just want to give the party leaders a little visit. I heard earlier today that what I had meant five to six years ago was compared to what Audun Lysbakken meant. I'll have asked myself that, because so extreme I've never been. The working party has decided that there are three things that define the Norwegian model, and only three things. Some of this is right. Moderate taxes are important. It is important that taxes are not too high, and it is important that they are not too low. I expect that the former is the reason why the government has kept the tax level – the 23 billion in tax relief – from the Bondevik II government. Responsible workers are important and responsible employers are important. It is incredibly important that some common resources are available to all, regardless of income, such as school and health care. We're not going to have American states in Norway. But then on the other hand, it's less important who it is that actually delivers the service. My objection is that sometimes when the Workers' Party speaks, it does not sound as if they are really talking about the Norwegian model or the Norwegian community, but about the Norwegian state. And then they forget that community is something more than the state. What makes Norway a good country to live in is not just these three things that the Labour Party has decided to be the Norwegian model. Let me do some examples. One of the nostrils of Norwegian social science, Stein Rokkan, has said that voluntary organisations have played a crucial role in Norwegian democracy construction and national construction. In fact, the essence of the emergence of Norwegian democracy was precisely in the voluntary and non-profit organizations, from Christian organisations to organisations that want to help those who have it more difficult, to the peasant movement and the labour movement. A recent survey found that Norway was the world’s most protected country. I think that is quite crucial for the Norwegian model. We've been modernizing Norway for the last 30 years. We've modernised our industry, and we've modernised the public sector. Not least was the 1980s crucial. Thorbjørn Jagland, a non-unknown working party police, said that if there were no modernisation in the 1980s, the system would explode. When Thorbjørn Jagland says that, I guess it's also because, after he has left as Prime Minister, he sees that several parties have been involved in building the Norwegian model. Listening to the working party today, it would be thought that the lights were turned off about every time the Workers' Party was out of government offices. Not to mention that the Norwegian model depends on an open economy, strong businesses, safe jobs. We have heard today that there is a division that has lifted Norway from being one of the poorest countries in the world. But allocating poverty is not particularly attractive. Of course, our value creation has also depended on politics, but above all we can thank entrepreneurs, business owners, those who have invested – and the employees who work, stand on and are up and contribute. I think all of them are concerned about the same thing as the Right, namely that the tax money is used as best as possible. When an employee pays taxes — high taxes — year after year, it does little to say that Norway is the world’s best country to live in, as it is, if health cows increase at the same time, or his daughter, who goes to school, does not receive the education she is entitled to. But the most important thing about the Norwegian model, or for Norwegian welfare, is work and work. It must pay off to work. Today it is such that the Norwegian model is delicious. Every year thousands of people fall out of our labour market, not only those who have worked and stood on for many decades, whether it's behind the cash register or in the industry, but young people fall out of our working life every year. Nearly 800,000 people in pre-age employment are out of work. The right has called it the ‘outership’ and has said that it is the greatest welfare challenge we face. Of course, if you are too sick to work, you should not work. You have to have proper arrangements for that. The problem is that today's policy is exploding more people instead of taking more people in. It has been symptomatic of today’s debate that instead of discussing what is happening today, what happened in 1994 or 1954 is discussed. So today, there are more people with lua in their hands than there were 40 years ago. It's just that today they're standing with lua in their hands at a Nav office.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2964	I have listened with interest to the debate today. There is a lot of concern about welfare and care for the elderly, and it is good to have a debate on how to meet one of the main welfare policy challenges we face. The fire wave is not far away. Siv Jensen opened the dance early in the morning today talking about care for the elderly. She could tell us that competition has given good results in all areas. All areas! Then, once again, someone has to take on the task of remembering that the Progress Party actually controls the care of the elderly in Oslo, and Oslo is thus the world’s best example that competition is not a quick fix. I remember very well an episode from the election campaign. Then Siv Jensen visited the Ammerud home. There were 36 older people living in two rooms. One of them was Esther Sigvartsen, 103 years old, with whom Siv Jensen spoke. She did not think it was particularly stony to divide the room, lying behind a curtain and having no window. "I think this is completely unworthy," said Siv Jensen. And when the NRK journalist confronted Siv Jensen that it might be the Right Party and the Advance Party that have not done their job in Oslo, she said, "Now this is not a home owned by the municipality." That statement reflects the total discharge. Probably there was a delay from the representative Jensen, but it reveals what this privatisation project really is about. It was one episode, but the trend in Oslo is clear. The quality of nursing homes that have been exposed to competition has not increased. User studies are clear on this point. The quality studies are clear on this point. The Oslo Elder Ombudsman reports annually, where it is said that being old in Oslo is becoming more difficult and more difficult, that the threshold for getting a sick home place is getting higher and higher, and that those living in hospitals are getting sicker and sicker. To all intents and purposes, the number of sick homes in Oslo has fallen after the Progress Party took over the responsibility. Then there are many in the debate – Røe Isaksen as the last – who have been occupied by the ideal actors. I feel that the Christian People's Party has a genuine commitment to those actors. It is worth noting that more and more ideal actors in Oslo are investing in the years. The Ensjøtunet, which was run by the Salvation Army, is a good example of this – in Oslo, which the Right and Advance Party governs. They say that they have been badly treated by the City Council, that there are uncertain framework conditions that have made it impossible to continue. And then, later on, you're like compensating for the reduced number of hospitalization places because you have so much beautiful domestic services! That is not true, and it brings me to another important point that has been left in this debate, and that is what is about red tape. We're accused of being bureaucratic, of being stiff-legged, of being afraid of private actors, and it's said that users suffer from it. I agree that we should always have a critical look at bureaucracy and avoid unnecessary bureaucracy. But in home health care, the Right Party and the Advance Party have introduced the so-called order/executor model, which is the worst bureaucracy of care for the elderly that I have ever seen. Then the municipality makes a decision, and then it is supposed that the user should be able to choose the performer. It requires a mill of decisions, of contract writing and of monitoring the follow-up of these contracts, and new decisions every time the need for care changes. West Aker Town has been a test city for this model. They report that they've received 1 million. kr extra in administrative expenses – and now all parts of Oslo are to implement this system. They'll have to. So we're in the completely absurd situation that the neighborhoods spend money to meet the increased administrative costs that this brings with it. The senior care of the Progress Party in Oslo is an airlock. There are many fine words: care pluss, which are really just social security homes with a new logo, without care. Hospital sites in Spain have ended up with 35 million. out of the window, suspecting corruption, a crushing report from the municipal audit and an plot in Altea on which nothing can be built, because it is regulated for agricultural purposes. This is the elderly care of the Advance Party, not as I describe it, but as described by 103-year-old Esther at the Ammerudhomemme, as described by the Municipal Auditorate, and as described by the Senior Ombudsman in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e2983	The state of the Kingdom has become apparent in the summer newspapers. These have been filled with tragic events, with stories of health and care shortages and stories of people who are not seen. We could read about too few treated patients, longer waiting lists and deficits in healthcare companies. We could read about closed departments and closures of local hospitals. And we could read about torch trains and protests from organizations and individuals – all this because 260,000 people are in health queues, and because the government has no proposals for a solution. We could read about the county council in Akershus, which was seriously concerned about child protection. We could read about a 15-year-old girl who died of an overdose under the care of child protection. State Council Lighthouse came in the context of the bright idea that children under the care of child protection who had not been in possession of drugs should be placed in their own drug-free institutions. As a long-standing member of the Billing Replacement Committee, I think this is mildly eye-catching. Indemnification cases for thousands of decades back in time tell of children who learned to rush while staying at child protection institutions. That the government has not understood this before 2010 is no less than hopeless. In VG 6 August, however, the Lighthouse says that he wants to strengthen the work on child protection, but without hope he will not give money to do so. In the past, the Minister for Health has said that she will give priority to young drug users, including those without extra funding. Over the summer, newspapers have written a page up and down on recent recruitment to drug settings, closed offices, detoxification sites, overdose deaths, almost 5,000 in treatment queues and abandoned treatment sites. It's like standing in an ant. We sink further and further down, and people lose faith in their dreams. They get their lives ruined, or they die. The Stoltenberg Committee has pointed out exactly what the Progress Party has been doing for years. The tranquillity doesn't stick together. The offer is fragmented, and the different levels use a lot of energy to avoid billing. The Stoltenberg Committee therefore proposes state funding for the entire treatment chain, and the Progress Party very much welcomes this. Psychiatric health also wears. The offer is being dismantled. This is happening at all levels across the country — not because of a lack of will, but because of a lack of government funding. In Dagbladet on 2 August we could read about a serious mental illness that was sent home because of a lack of funding in connection with holiday settlement. He was not alone. Lack of comprehensive mental health services and the lack of lowthreshold services increase the use of coercion, shows a report published by the Council for Mental Health. The report shows large geographical differences and the Progress Party considers this to be a problem because the right to health care should be equal throughout the country. The report also shows that there is no evidence that little coercion means that people who really need help do not get it. Therefore, we cannot sit still and watch that the psychiatry is being built down day by day. We need to further develop cooperation in the health services of municipalities, and we need to provide rapid and flexible responses when firm, relatives or individuals feel that help is needed. The progress team will end up saying to people asking for help that you are not sick enough. Only then can we achieve lower rates of coerciveness, fewer long-term illness, fewer deaths and fewer disability benefits. The throne gave no great optimism to the health services in 2011, and the government rarely admits that the challenges are huge. In the last year, the government has been very busy telling us that money needs to be tightened up. It is therefore with great concern that I meet tomorrow's budget. It is the sick, the mentally ill and those with drug problems who constitute the dominant group of those who are described as poor in Norway. Sickness and poverty are closely linked. Since the government has said that it will eliminate poverty, these people cannot once again become the balancing post of the government. Increased focus on care and care will be one of the most important games of the Advance Party in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3023	Some time ago, Norway was again named the world’s best country to live in. It's easy to think it's because of the oil. That's wrong. Many countries are rich, but too often we see that this wealth is reserved for a small, rich minority. We all carry in ourselves the dream of how we will live, but it's no use dreaming if you don't have the freedom to carry out the dream. Norwegian labour movement so early that such freedom can only be achieved jointly. That is why we have created a strong community, a community where we all pay taxes according to our ability and get back different welfare services as needed. Through a common school, everyone can have equal rights to education. Through a common healthcare system, everyone may be entitled to equal medical treatment. Through a common social security system, everyone can have financial security in the case of unemployment, disability and old age. This community is the result of political will, of political force — to a large extent of the will and power of the labour movement, often, as now, in an interaction with the centre. Of course, petroleum revenues have been significant, but the welfare state is based primarily on work, on our common value creation and on high professional participation. Therefore, work for all has always been a primary goal. Work means a lot to each individual's income and well-being. But work is also crucial for our common well-being. High professional participation gives tax revenue that can pay for better school and better hospitals, and high professional participation gives more hands to carry out the tasks to be solved. Our well-being is therefore also largely based on the will to achieve equality between women and men — on high levels of professional participation among women. That's also why equality is important. So I noticed that the right-wing leader of the debate earlier today boasted of the economic growth of right-wing Sweden. Yes, in 2005–2010 Sweden had a growth of 6.5 p.m., but the growth in mainland Norway – I underline mainland Norway – is estimated to be 13 p.m. In the same period, twice as much. Unemployment in Sweden during the same period has been around twice as high as in Norway since 2006. The Norwegian welfare community is a great success. The Norwegian and Nordic models are a great success – a victory. John F. Kennedy once said that victors tend to attract many fathers. Also the right-hand side will now have a share in the fathership. But then it's probably more correct when VG writes that the Right went into the welfare state backwards, reluctantly and on crutches. However, it is so important that the Right and Advance Party will weaken important elements of this model – the Advance Party to a greater extent than the Right, yes, but the Right will depend on the support and influence of the Advance Party in order to have a majority in favour of such a policy. The will to defend and improve the welfare society is a matter of choice. We have to choose well-being or tax havens. The desire of the Right Party and the Advance Party to remove the wealth tax does not just mean that some of the country's absolute richest will be zero tax collectors. Well, it is so important that money corresponding to the operation of 15 000 sick homes is rather given as tax relief to the richest. We have to choose common solutions or privatisation. The wish of the Right Party and the Advance Party for more private schools will not only create greater differences in school. Well, it's so important that the common school is one of the strongest glues we have in Norwegian society. It creates community and less conflict, but this community will weaken the Progress Party and the Right. The government chooses the opposite. We want to strengthen well-being – have better elderly services, better schooling and better hospitals. That's why we don't want to give tax credits. We will strengthen the community and turn the ring around the common school. That's why we say no to the privatisation of the school. We will strengthen cooperation with the social partners and bring together employees and employers. That is why we will move towards weakening the rights of workers. The Norwegian model is not an unpolitical common good. The elements of the model are created in battle and continue to create political strife. That's why there's also a fight about the road choices, and the government and the dark blues choose different directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3045	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3048	We hear this over and over again from the red-green representatives: you have to have increased taxes and taxes to meet the challenges of the welfare state of Norway. At the same time, however, the government, or at least the Workers' Party, has even said that it is not relevant to increase taxes and taxes. Then I hear the Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen say here that the Workers' Party is going to increase the welfare of health. One should increase in the care of the elderly. You have to increase in school. You have to increase in infrastructure. Yes, you have to increase in all areas. If it relates to what the Workers' Party's representatives claim in relation to the Advance Party and the Right, how are the Workers' Party and this government going to do this increased investment in welfare in order not to increase taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3053	In the same way that this government has increased the welfare level over the four years that have passed, through a clear choice where we choose well-being rather than taxation. We haven't increased the taxes. We have said that we should keep them at the 2004 level as we promised before the previous elections. But within the economic space we have then, we have chosen to strengthen well-being through a strong growth in the local economy, a strong growth in the number of employees in the municipal sector, which has also made it possible to solve more health and care tasks and at school, to mention some examples. Yes, as a result, we have also solved tasks related to full child care coverage. We've increased the hours in school. We have employed more people in health and care services. Through this kind of choice – where we choose to strengthen well-being rather than giving tax incentives – we also build the welfare community. But the Advance Party will make the opposite choice with the Right. They want to make a choice where they choose to use, for example: the taxes on wealth to provide tax relief to some of the country's absolute wealth, rather than using this money to provide a better welfare offer. That's why there's questions about choices, and we choose different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3060	The right has gone into this debate based on what we want and what we want to focus on. We will create growth, improve the quality of education, research and transport to strengthen Norway's ability to meet the challenges we know to come after 2020. Government parties have also spoken about the Right, but they can't help but paint black and make horror pictures. Even foreign heads of state have been involved in the debate by some representatives. Then I would like to remind you that, after all, we do not hold the red-greens responsible for the results of their parishes in Spain or Greece, and it is in the present time. We have heard that the government parties, who are responsible for increasing health cows and the quality of many of the services that people really need, are the only ones who think of the individual. These are claims that I think are quite incredible. Now there was some doubt about the title of the council when he joined. It started with the Minister of Coordination, but now it's the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office. It may be good to use the Minister of Coordination, because it must have been a bit of a job to coordinate and indoctrinate such a life-long message as what we have heard from the Red-Greens today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3067	I feel that many of those who represent the government parties in this debate have underlined the fundamental differences in value that exist between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the government parties on the other, precisely because it has previously been called upon from among the other Right that we should appear in a discussion about what the fundamental differences are. Yes, I explained that today. If the representative of Gundersen is concerned, for example: I assume that he is very satisfied that this government has not only been able to overcomply with the transport plan that was in the previous period, but that it has actually submitted a transport plan for this 10-year period at a level of 100 billion. kr higher than the level of the previous plan, and that we actually implement it. We have completed a strengthening of the 5 billion research. kr during the previous period. This shows a clear prioritisation of many of the tasks that Gundersen is also involved in. But our emphasis today has been primarily disagreement on the main road choices in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3074	In an article about community, which had a very ideological approach to politics, it surprises me that the Council of State did not come up with an important theme, which neither was the Prime Minister in his speech earlier today, namely poverty. For the first time in 16 years, the number of social welfare recipients in Norway has risen. There are over 6,000 homeless people – an increase of 10 pst. There are over 4,000 people in treatment queues for intoxication. There have been several poor children. There's more in line in psychiatry. The earmark led to a cut of over 400 settings in psychiatry. I think we can all be a few that the government has not done enough, and that poverty should have been one of the issues raised by the Council of State in its contribution. In this way, many have wondered what a Minister of Coordination is doing in the government. Would it have been a good idea for the Minister of Coordination to take time to focus on coordinating a more targeted poverty effort, and perhaps he also addressed the Christian People's Party's proposal for a national fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3081	This government has as an important objective the aim of contributing to making it easier for those with economic challenges. I believe the Christian People's Party and this government very much agree that it is a central objective of a welfare society, and also that it is important to prioritize it. For this reason, during the years that we have been in the position, from 2006 to 2010, this government has strengthened the appropriations for measures for those who are economically disadvantaged, by 3.9 billion. kr in addition to the budget of the Bondevik Government. What I think is perhaps one of the most important things, however, is that we have implemented reforms to reach those who have the most difficulty. The system of qualification programmes that makes you take a special thank you for helping out those who have problems is a reform that this government has implemented, and which I believe is one of the most important measures in recent years to ensure that someone can get out of poverty problems and get into a job. If I get to finally just say that the most important thing I think we agree on, and that is to make sure that people have work. It has been the main objective of this government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3090	It is said that ‘it takes one to know one’, and when you see the Council of State’s ability to say that the Workers’ Party has a monopoly on all major welfare reforms in history, I think that the Warning to the Right about having many mothers might fall a little on stone’s floor. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. It is difficult to find any questions to this council, but this year I feel like I have succeeded. With this harvest that we have behind us, which has not been good for the trust of Norwegian politicians and Norwegian democracy, we must not fall into the trap that we think we should make rules to get out of it all. But openness is part of the fight against the cultures we don't want. Therefore, I wonder if perhaps the Council of State has now changed its attitude to a lobby register, and that he sees that if we had a lobby register with the Norwegian government and with the Norwegian parliament, many of the insinuations we see in Norwegian public debate could have disappeared, because one could have proved how the process had progressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3097	I don't think it's a big difference if you're talking to someone who wants to influence you within the Storting or outside the Storing, on the phone or face to face. I therefore believe that the idea of a lobby register has – let's say – a little overconfidence. I would, however, like to be emphasised in relation to what Mr. Skei Grande said, that I did not say that the Workers' Party and the Labour Movement have a monopoly on building the welfare community. But I guess there's no doubt that they've been a very central player to get it to, and as I said, often in collaboration with the center. The left has been one of those games. Some of the important road choices facing the centre of Norwegian politics, not least the Christian People's Party and the Left, are whether they believe that building this welfare society further is best done in an interaction with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, or whether it is in an interaction with the Right and the Advance Party. That's the fundamental question of how we're going to develop this society further, and I would like to invite both the Left and the Christian People's Party to constructive cooperation, both in this big business and for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3104	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3107	After nearly 200 years with the Constitution, and as an independent nation for the past 105 years, Norway, according to the Prime Minister, has developed a unique model in the world — the Norwegian one. Norway, previously referred to as a country, is therefore, in the government's view, designed as a perfect model of society – a society which, as we understand, is at a higher level of civilisation thanks to forward-looking social democrats. This perfect model is to be defended hereafter and at least improved only to the extent that the Workers' Party considers it necessary. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party has, in a previous speech today, elaborated the last decisive step from what was previously referred to as the Nordic model to today's ideal state of being purely Norwegian. According to the representative Pedersen, there are three criteria. It's: – high level of taxation – large public sector – cooperation between social partners and authorities If you put the decisive emphasis on just these three, you could say that Italy already had such a system in place around 1930, so there must be a couple more things that make us have a good society. The need may be present in the Workers' Party's rhetoric in order to now distance itself from the concept of the Nordic model, for some might wonder how other countries in our immediate vicinity are quite well-functioning welfare societies, even when governed by bourgeois governments. Closer review shows that most European countries have welfare countries that provide basic security to the population. In the areas where Norway stands out, it is largely due to the fact that a small population has received large unexpected oil revenues. We don't have to spend a long time finding that it's very good in Norwegian society. But politicians tend to overestimate their own contribution. What creates well-being is the work that is done every day by ordinary people who go to work and make an effort for others, and who every day also produce goods for which there is demand. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party becomes reasonably one-dimensional when one does not acknowledge with one word in his intervention that the most important thing that takes place in society is actually taking place outside and beyond the state. It is to a very small extent recognised that this value creation takes place through the participation of people in business and that resources are used with the least possible waste in a market-based economic system. If you listen to the review tone here today, the red-green posts are largely based on the fact that everything good in society comes from politics and political decisions. Of course, you need to have a certain understanding that the government will emphasize areas that, because of the efforts of many others, work well, and boast of it. But today's debate has been a social-democratic backward self-goodness that is about to take on such proportions that I think it goes beyond the ability to look forward and on the tasks ahead of us. At a time when other countries, including in our vicinity, are beginning to show a stronger capacity for growth, we are experiencing a government that is more concerned with describing yesterday's society and is engaged in distorted history-writing also of other parties' policies. What should be a main political task is to facilitate the business life we're going to live on after the oil age. Most of the jobs to create a tax base for welfare services in the future are not yet created. Therefore, we need to focus on a use of Community resources to stimulate value creation. We also need to ensure that people are not held in passive client roles, but are given a new chance to return to work, so that they can cope with their own strength and contribute to society. When the Right wants us to invest more in knowledge and research, it lays the foundation for what to live on in the future. Despite the financial autonomy of the government, the results are now weaker in the field than in other countries. We are below the OECD average for knowledge in central school. When the government boasts of employment figures, it is not seen that the figures cover a massive transition from competitive business to the public sector. Central to the government's self-responsiveness is to show that a lot of money is spent, but it has only led Norway to the top in money use, without having particularly good results in many areas. I therefore think that we should work more together to lay the foundation for that society to live on in the future, rather than characterising the past by party-political dividing lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3142	In the era of the throne, the government began to mention the climate problems by pointing out that climate problems are the greatest challenge of our time. Furthermore, the government underlined that the climate problems ‘need out and at home’. These are strong words committed to action. The Christian People's Party shares the government's view of the importance of climate challenges by adding an important shade: alongside climate problems, our time's greatest challenge is to combat global poverty, because the Christian People's Party believes that all people have a unique value. This is a pillar of our political commitment. This human vision obliges us to show close love for all those around the world who do not have the standard of living they deserve this very day. It's about today, but it's also about seeing the days coming. Yes, it's about treating our globe in a sustainable way. The biggest challenge of our time is climate problems. We're going to cut both at home and outside. Unfortunately, the government does not have the power to follow up its own words through great enough actions. The government has not implemented a policy that is adapted to the size of the climate challenges we know to come. Climate challenges require rapid societal change. We have to convert from an economy based on fossil fuel consumption to an economy based on clean energy. We need to settle with an economic system based on an ever-increasing consumption of limited resources. We are in the process of exceeding the earth's carrying capacity and undermining the ability of future generations to create the good life that we all want. Five years of red-green government has moved Norway with some small steps in the right direction. I'm not going to substantiate that. But the steps become like mouse chalk to count in a situation where there is a need to put on seven-mile boots. Climate policy needs a completely different pace. I can promise on behalf of the Christian People's Party that in the year ahead, we will challenge the government, as we have done in the last five years, to take bolder, but necessary steps in relation to a sustainable policy. ‘The government intends to present a communication to the Stortinget on climate policy in the autumn of 2011’, says the paper. This should actually have been presented by the Stortinget this year, if we were to follow the climate agreement concluded in 2008. After the Copenhagen Climate Summit in 2009, we were to go through both instruments and objectives in relation to the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit. There was nothing in 2009. But the promise of a climate notification that we then received has now become a wish for a climate notification in 2011. This is a little reassuring. The Christian People's Party is a party to the climate agreement. We have clear expectations of the implementation of adopted policies, because it is a majority of the Stortinget who have a vision for Norway’s climate policy and societal development. Visions are easy to forget when we start with everyday politics, but I think it's important to remember them. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and all the other parliamentary leaders have a vision that we should become a low-carbon society. The vision means that the emissions of each of us have to be reduced by 80 pst. This cannot happen without political will, organisation and governance. It also implies agreement that we should take two thirds at home. We have a vision, we have a goal, but we lack policies, and we lack implementation of our policies. The Christian People's Party's challenge to the government is clear: live climate policy on a continuous basis, don't wait, start with the budget tomorrow!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3157	The people have chosen the common school over the commercial private schools. The ideological appeal of several private schools in 2005 remains a cry in the woods. We stopped the private school applications they had approved, and since then no one has asked for these places. This is likely to indicate that commercial private schools in Norway have never been a wish among students, parents or teachers — only with the Right and their bourgeois friends. Contrary to the fact that the right controlled the field of education, debates on the school now have become ideologically calm. Teachers no longer protest, students no longer go on demonstration trains against national tests, and parents experience that they are being heard. When it's quiet, it's easier to concentrate on the important tasks in school. The school does not need any more reforms, but it needs political attention — nationally and locally. We will implement the necessary measures for the school without becoming an ideological battlefield. That is why we are listening to the school, to the working life and to the researchers. We need to talk the school up, not down. Nobody gets better just to hear how bad they are. A good education policy must always be on the move, because the challenges in education and employment are changing more and more rapidly. In the last decades, Norwegian industry has had to make changes that have led to fewer low-level employees, while at the same time increasing the production of goods and services requiring skilled labour. Norway is currently the OECD country with the lowest share of the workforce in non-educational professions. In 15 years' time, the need for unskilled labour will be only 3.5 pst. by the labour force. It is not possible to predict exactly what skills are needed to meet the challenges in 20 or 50 years, but what we know is that we need to ensure all the basic skills, and we need to make sure that everyone has the ability to adapt to meet the future. This is why the government’s work against high school dropout is so important, because the future depends on it — both the future of Norway and the future of each youth. We need close follow-up, adapted training and early efforts. We need more and better teachers, a strong and competent school management, and we need responsible school owners. I would like to highlight a somewhat under-communicated moment: these measures, which will contribute to increased implementation and less non-response, will also benefit the school-leaving students. The myth that schools are not seen if politicians are trying to reduce apostasy must be put to death once and for all. A strong school management is good for all the students. Adapted training is good for all students. More and better teachers are good for all the students. However, the path to adapted training and opportunities for schools is not through a rigid level-sharing system. A number of newspaper headlines have revealed that some schools in Right-Handed Oslo operate in this way, although this is contrary to the Training Act. Rigid level-sharing helps to get students into the booth, and it's not flexible enough to give students the opportunity to improve or to extend. The progress team has expressed on its side that they want a broad division of levels in mathematics, that so-called good students should go into one class, while those who get the label early as less good should go into another. They express and do not have research coverage that it contributes positively to learning, rather on the contrary. Again: This is a form of ideication of the school from the Progress Party, which does not benefit the students. The same applies to other proposals by the civil society on more individualisation and smaller communities in classrooms, on the ranking of schools and grades from the fifth class. This does not support research. This has no support among the school's own people. That the right, which aims to be a knowledge party, does not seem to put knowledge of what actually works in school, at the very heart of its policy, is at best wonderful. That the representative of the Progress Party, Tord Lien, says in his speech that he wants to deideologize the debate on school, and at the same time stands for this kind of ideological proposal, is just strange. The Workers' Party and the Government will have a good public general school. We want school policy measures to be research-based. We'll listen to the school and the professionals. Civil ideological noise must not stand in the way of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3178	I expected the census to give clear and clear signals on how to improve today's care for the elderly and equip ourselves for the challenge that comes when there are even more old, sick and needy people who will need a good service. Once again, I was disappointed by the government's lack of vision and power to meet the needs of today's and the future's sick old people have and will have. All we're being fed into is the sentence: "Elders in need of care should have a good offer." What does it say about quality and scope? Not the things of the world. It reminds me of the confusion that Gro Harlem Brundtland said in the election campaign 25 years ago: we promise an elderly care that makes it good to get old. In 1996, the Social Minister of the Labour Party promised only in a nursing home to everyone who wants to do so, and everyone remembers Jens Stoltenberg's statement in the election campaign in 2005 where he said he would not give a penny in a tax bill until it came out of the care of the elderly. When Stoltenberg then gave substantial tax relief to the trade unions through increased trade union deductions, one might wonder if the government believes that it already shines through the care of the elderly in this country. In that case, it's a vision I think they're quite alone in. We have heard too many empty promises and large inconclusive words from the Workers' Party. The losing party is once again the old, sick and nurturing elderly. For a number of years, we have witnessed the blackmail between the rich state and its municipalities. Local politicians, regardless of party, are struggling to fulfill the promises of central politicians. We hear that the local government sector has almost doubled its debt in seven years, and that it is now up to approximately 190 billion. kr. Much of the debt comes as a direct result of all the government orders that it does not follow the money to solve. At the same time, the State also demands budgetary balance and preferably 3 pst. profits. The last of these is the few municipalities that are able to pay. The spare knife needs to be provided, and often the cheese needs to be used, which means that the care and care sector is bleeding the most. The savings bags go beyond the offer of old sick and other nurturing. This is, in the view of the Progress Party, directly unworthy in a so-called welfare society. The ideological counter-representation of the government to let go of both private and private commercial actors is contributing to the fact that we have actually got a classed healthcare system, where those who can pay for it are given the opportunity, while others are awarded a public monopoly provider and long queues. There are major problems in obtaining qualified personnel for the community health service. Some municipalities have up to 80 pst. unskilled at their institutions. Low skills lead, inter alia, to: for intrusion, mishandling and intrusion. Seven out of ten Northmen are today afraid to be nurturing here in the country. The fear and percentage of self-employed care workers is likely to be even greater. We can't have it that way. The old sick deserve a completely different security and assurance of the quality of life and the preservation of a human dignity that is today far too little in focus. The progress batch shall at any time settle with the other batches in order to arrive at the necessary grips which may provide a worthy care for the elderly. We have outlined a number of solutions in the past, and we made recordings in connection with the interaction message, but the government has not been willing to listen. What is quite clear is that the medicine the government prescribes, it doesn't work. An important factor in this is the care arenas. Nursing homes have never been able to become what they were going to be: a real alternative to nursing homes, where individuals should be able to choose housing and be sure that care provision was increased if treatment needs increased. We therefore need a much stronger commitment to the development of hospitals in this country. When we see that more and more municipalities are relocating their homes, and that the start-up of nursing homes is almost absent, the storm bells should call the government offices. But there in the house they just lean back and leave the problem to the municipalities. The indebtedness of local authorities and the lack of control are an essential factor in the establishment of sick places. Lack of economic space means that several municipalities do not have the opportunity to undertake operational tasks in the form of several hospitals. This means that many sick old people do not receive or will receive treatment at the best effective level of care. The Progress Party expects the State budget to take account of corrective action in these circumstances. I have noticed that some red-green politicians are no longer talking about the wave of old age, but about the burden of old age, and are making it appear that the old sick are threatening the existence of the welfare society. I have also heard bureaucrats say that if a patient is alive one year after she is admitted to hospital, the patient is initially misplaced. Such opinions will be very distant from the Progress Party, but unfortunately this kind of attitude is emerging as a result of government policies and approaches to sick, nurturing old people. I expect a unanimous increase to come to an end on the proposal of the Progress Party No. Four and five. It deserves those who have really built this welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3195	I'd like to start by saying that I don't know any red-green politicians talking about the "elders" burden. I know a lot of red-green politicians talking about the amazing thing that almost all people in this country have the chance of getting old, like my 86-year-old mother, who is in good shape and has an excellent life in this country, and we talk a lot about how we're going to get a good old age care for these people. But what I want to talk about is climate change. The government says we should be a driver in the international fight against climate change. There are three things happening in the climate field at the same time in the world now. One is that it is fully demonstrated that the images we get from the international climate scientists occur with great force and very serious. Today, the news came that the ice in Greenland is melting more this year than ever before. The flood in Pakistan fits into the climate scenarios by the fact that there are precisely this type of big flood and rain events you have to expect. In China, in Russia, in Burma, major drought disasters have occurred. At all, 2010 seems to be one of the hottest years, or the hottest, ever. We had a cold winter, it was a cold winter on the east coast of the United States, but otherwise, all the signs are there in earnest in the climate disaster. The other thing that happens at the same time is that many countries do mass. Brazil has reduced deforestation by 75 pst. in seven years. It is the largest single measure from any country. Indonesia’s president came to Norway and told that from 1 January, he will now launch a ban on new peak concessions in Indonesia – a fantastically courageous and strong response, and countries such as China, South Korea and many European countries are developing climate technologies at great speed. So it happens a lot. At the same time, however, climate negotiations stand still. It's serious, and the question is what can be done to solve it. Climate negotiations simply stand still because the need for the United States to implement strong measures to reduce climate change emissions in the United States has not been balanced, and international systems have been agreed on how China’s – and India’s and Brazil’s, but, above all, China’s – self-imposed climate action should be measured globally. There's no prospect that we'll be able to solve this in Cancun in December. Then the strategy has to be that we're looking at what we can solve, and the answer has to be a disconnect. We have to disconnect all of the areas we can now solve, from this one we know that we can't now solve. Then we have to build a stone on a rock, instead of believing that everything can be solved in a single big climate policy big bang. In Cancun, the goal must be – and the government's goal is – that we must be able to conclude an agreement on what the international community either fully agrees on or almost agrees on. These include forest conservation, climate action in poor countries, transfer of technology to poor countries, climate adaptation measures in poor countries, and empowerment. In all of these areas, we either agree entirely or almost agree. We have to make an agreement on this in Cancun, and then we have to build on it further towards a more global agreement later on. Then we have to link together the two major environmental policy negotiations in the world, Cancun on climate and in Nagoya in Japan in three weeks – a number of big business representatives will also be participating there – on natural diversity. And the Norwegian-supported forest project is what above all brings together these two agendas. Taking care of rainforests takes care of the greatest diversity of species in some types of nature, while at the same time reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We have to look at many other of these kinds of connections, because with the same money and the same tools and the same political decisions, we have to see if we can solve both problems at the same time. The theme on which there will be the most interest and controversy in the Nagoya negotiations on natural diversity is genetic resources. Norway has taken on a bridge building role between developed countries and the legitimate desire of industrial companies to be able to take rights to the products it produces — otherwise it will not receive research and development — and at the same time the right of developing countries to protect their genetic material. Swiss researchers in their time developed a very important international transplant medicine from a mushroom on Hardangervidda. Norway has not received five cents for it. Switzerland has made a billion-dollar industry out of it. It is not a problem for Norway, but it is a major problem for developing countries if they do not gain from their genetic resources. The goal of Nagoya is to agree on this. And once again, if we can't become 100 pst. Agree, then we have to agree on the 90 pst. of which we agree. The difficulty with both climate and natural diversity is that it is the first major negotiation processes in the new multipolar world order, and we must have everyone to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3210	In today's throne debate, we have repeatedly heard from the government parties that the Norwegian welfare model is the one who invented and owns it. Of course it's not like that. The same representatives will then also be obliged to respond when we remind them of important welfare reforms undertaken by civil governments. Helga Pedersen and Martin Kolberg mix the cards. They focus their own close contact with the trade union movement – which even gets paid and squeezed out with central government office – as an important part of the Norwegian model. But can any of the government parties' representatives tell us at what point the general level of well-being went down under the Bondevik II government, or even under the Willoch government? No, rather, the opposite happened, because the importance of stimulating growth was understood. Youngstorget's own newspaper The newspaper Dagsavisen wrote after the government change in 2005 that the red-greens came to the table and covered the table. What does the table look like today, five years later? Hospital queues are longer than ever, poverty has increased, and drug treatment is being used for ideological reasons by this government. There's a big part of non-public auxiliary equipment here, I need to know. The red-green parties are wise to assume that not all welfare is created by the state or municipality. Privates, organisations and not least individuals are also very important actors in a welfare society and in the Norwegian model. But the government of Stoltenberg is also unable to create the sustainable society with more in work and fewer in social security that you talk about. It's going in the wrong direction. More and more people are going to social security. They will also protect public monopolies instead of stimulating diversity that can provide better services to users. Their solutions to the challenges are taxes and charges in a good Brofoss tradition. In the field by field, I can mention red-green ideological jaws that go ahead of good solutions. Others from the opposition have today cited the health and care sectors as examples of this. I'm going to mention some examples from the transport sector. But first, it's not very impressive when the Workers' Party's representatives with Martin Kolberg at the head highlight the situation in Norway and the effects of the financial crisis as unique red-green political craftsmanship. No other country had the opportunity that we had in Norway. Of course, these effects subdued. The right was also involved in this, but some big political trick isn't. Other countries have had to endure painful cuts and increase their foreign debt to the gap point, but the same countries also have no alternative but healthy growth to return to the offensive. And healthy growth is created by pursuing policies that make companies invest and hire people, and also by keeping public taxes and taxes as low as possible. Then optimism is created, and then growth impulses are created. It is hardly anywhere else in the government's work that empty political rhetoric is in greater contrast to reality than in the transport sector. Here it is known that more and more money is being invested. However, it is forgotten that the increase in costs in this sector has been greater than the increase in the level of funding. The share of transport is then also increasingly lower each year over the state budget and is increasingly toll-financed. But the serious thing is the total absence of reforms in this sector. In five years we have not seen a single reform from this government. The Labour Party's own, Johnsen and Sandman, state that this industry is over-ripe for reform. The right has proposed a number of actions in the area of project funding, OPS, fund solutions to absorb backlogs on the roads, and reforms in the administration to get more out of the money. What is the answer from the Workers' Party? Yes, they will actually reverse useful reforms. So they want to reverse the Mesta reform, which gave us 500 million. extra weight in the year. So the queues are getting longer, the roads are getting worse and the trains are standing more than ever. That's the fasit after five years of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3233	While we are discussing further the development of the welfare state in this Chamber, our colleagues in most European countries must do painful cuts, some because they are forced to do so, others because they simply implement traditional right-wing policies in response to the challenges of the financial crisis. The danger is that unemployment can get stuck at a high level over a long period of time. Youth unemployment is frightening. We're in danger of losing an entire generation. The consequences can be dramatic. People all over the continent are already marching in the streets. In such a situation, some quickly start looking for scapegoats. I'm afraid that for the next few decades we can face great contradictions and a lot of social unrest if countries do not have the power to deal with unemployment and social protection, but rather implement large cuts in welfare systems. High school is going to take advantage of this for everything it's worth. They take their nourishment from contradictions and hatreds, insecurity for new developments in society, and often by glorifying the past. I think we see the first wave of what we are potentially facing also within democracy, both in the Netherlands and in Sweden. Geert Wilders' Freedom Party and the Swedish Democrats made surprisingly good choices, both with a hostile rhetoric towards immigrants. In both countries, they're on the verge. Then wise politicians are needed. Here again in Norway, we have had forces that want to rebuild and negate under ethnic contradictions. However, high-ranking regions have not really got their roots, both because we are a small and transparent country, and because we have a society of small differences. Aliens don't bite people who live in harmonious societies. The Nordic model – which now has to be called the Norwegian model – is an outstanding world success. The main explanation of this success, as many have pointed out, is a large public sector, a relatively high level of taxation and excellent cooperation between social partners. Major reforms do not lead to riots and demonstrations in this country, as we see in other countries. This is at the same time one of the strongest expressions, as I see it, for Norwegian culture: we promise together, we take care of each other – something we, for example. see in the voluntary sector – and we don’t want a big difference between people. This success formula will be removed by the Progress Party. Siv Jensen has said it clearly: it's going to be total change, it's going to be "market thinking at all levels". It's totally unimaginable. It was this way of thinking that threw people out in the crisis, which meant that tens of thousands have lost the job, the house, the future. At the same time, Christian Tybring-Gjedde comes with constant indications that Norway and Norwegian culture are threatened. He claims that we are daggering Norwegian culture in the back, and that our country can be torn away in the long term by immigration. He writes, "It's Ap that gives us thousands of new Nordics from different cultures" and points to family immigration and marriage. Yes, we actually give the Nordics the choice of who they want to marry. Several thousand Norwegians marry across borders. Will the Progress Party stop this? Should the Progress Party introduce a Norwegian variant of coercion? It would probably be a bit of an advertisement in the fight to be attractive to migrant workers if we didn't accept that they could take the family with them if they stayed here. Or should we have learned from Canada, when they say that diversity is their greatest strength, and when the schools use it, that there are several languages spoken in the schoolyard, as one of their foremost advantages? Canada is not about to be demolished in fillets. I am tempted to ask, since Tybring-Gjedde is next on the list of speakers. Is it the fact that the top scorer in the elite series is named Mohammed, who threatens to tear our country up? In that case, it had to annoy Tybring-Did something crazy when John Carew secured us the victory against Portugal. And if the Progress Party is so concerned about Norwegian culture, then why are they cutting in the cultural sector by 1 billion? Do you really want to delete this item? No, what Tybring-Ged actually shouts, is stop the world, I want off. He should rather realize that it is the Progress Party that is the greatest threat to Norwegian culture. Their policies will provide thousands of lost jobs, it will result in poorer pay and working conditions, it will give less money to the community, and it will contribute to great distinctions between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3252	The attack from Stokkan-Grande is self-talk and is probably a good example of both flaked and unprofessional Disneyland comments from the Workers' Party. I'm just choosing to ignore it. They should rather go a little by themselves instead of describing everything that delights and vulture in this country, when we have huge challenges, which not least Stokkan-Grande is aware of. On the AUF camp on Utöla in the summer, the Prime Minister stated that the lessons of the debt crisis in Europe should be a final no to tax reliefs. Tax relief is absolutely irresponsible, he added. Stoltenberg's speech was a classic socialist worthy, and I think he had a little dull taste in his mouth. Here the economy was presented to be a given size, the government's expenditure by definition of the good, while the budget deficits were due to the fact that those who had the most in the past had acquired even more through unsolidarized tax reliefs. Had the speech to Stoltenberg remained internal medicine on Utøya, it would have been okay, but unfortunately the speech became an inspiration for his party traps. For just a few weeks afterwards, the Party Secretary Raymond Johansen stood up in the evening post and announced that the Workers' Party would increase the taxes to finance the future care of the elderly, an idea that was also endorsed by Minister of Industry Trond Giske. What if the economic context was so simple? Do you think that we could increase taxes until the welfare needs were saturated, and that the tax level did not have any ring-fences for other parts of the economy? But, unfortunately, it's not like that. There is no correlation between increased tax and better well-being. Because if that were the case, we would always have the level of taxation where all our welfare needs were covered. And to illustrate, no one spends more money on health per capita than Norway, and only the United States spends more money on education. Why, then, do we have major health challenges and long queues? And why does Norwegian school score low on international knowledge tests? So when, in today's debate, Stoltenberg claims that the government chooses welfare services instead of tax cuts, he burys well-known economic principles and moves elegantly into the world of populism. For Stoltenberg, the following simple but erroneous reasoning is used: the more tax, the more well-being. Hagebakken and Sund said the opposite in today's debate: the less tax, the less well-being. And what does Schjøtt-Pedersen really mean? I was a little uncertain about what his message was today. When the Party Secretary Raymond Johansen and Minister of Industry Trond Giske talk about more taxes in order to pay for future care for the elderly, it is not only a political declaration of failure, but also a testimony to a lack of knowledge of economic relations. One more krone in tax never becomes one more krone in welfare. Firstly, tax collection leads to loss of efficiency in the economy, and for each additional krone the country requires of the individual, private welfare will be reduced accordingly. This, in turn, will lead to a reduction in private demand, a reduction in economic activity and, in the long term, a reduction in the need for employees in private enterprises. And it won't stop there. Experience shows that the withdrawal of purchasing power will lead to higher pay demands. Not least, we want to see such an effect in countries with collective wage formation, as in Norway. These are the costs that will be transferred to the production and make Norwegian goods more expensive and the Norwegian framework for competitive business. Norwegian export companies are an integral part of a global economy, and it is therefore naive to believe that it is possible to introduce strange taxes or taxes while maintaining Norwegian competitiveness. The Minister of Economic Affairs, through the VG, says that he wants to increase taxes without such a withdrawal of purchasing power affecting Norwegian companies and jobs, is completely untrustworthy. Because in such a perspective, only the pensioners remain. However, it may be precisely what the government is doing, first by introducing withholding taxes on Norwegian pensioners living abroad, and now by proposing increased taxes on pensions — in other words, a self-payment system for elderly care via the tax slip. Does the Workers' Party no longer believe that retirement is an earned right, but that retirement is a welfare good that the government can remove with a pen stroke? Does the Workers' Party believe that, after a long life in working life, pensioners are to redistribute themselves between themselves? And is it so that increasingly similar pension payments per. definition is fairer, as the chairman of the financial committee, Torgeir Mikalsen, said at the NRK News today? Does not the Workers' Party believe that a higher pension is a right due to the education, effort and job homes of the retired person through a long working life? If the government believes that one needs more money for future pension payments, that is exactly why the Stortinget has created the State pension fund! And if you're not going to use the pension fund for pensions, what in the world are you going to use the pension fund for then? It is becoming increasingly expensive to drive Norway. Five years of red-green government have given us a record high number of employees in public administration, well-functioning institutions have been forced out of the capital, government still has three levels of 18 counties and 430 municipalities. More and more people have been excluded from the regular labour market, and today more than 25 pst. of all Nordics aged between 18 and 65, different general government benefits as principal income. In addition, we have a irresponsible immigration policy that leads to high costs, both social, cultural and financial. So before starting the hunt for new sources of income, the Party Party's Party Secretary and the Government's Governments should first find measures limiting the growth of cost drivers in public budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3282	This summer, the last speaker, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, was in charge of the Advancement Party in Oslo, completely attacked by those of us who believe that diversity is good, including the vast majority of the population of Norway, not least the people of Oslo, who are for such a society. He hailed as a defender of Norwegian culture, which he thought was threatened, without being able to explain who it was that threatened, or what Norwegian culture is, and even less on what kind of values we're going to base the Norwegian community on. So let me try to say something about what kind of values I think we should base the Norwegian community on. I think we should base the Norwegian society on democracy and human rights, equality and social cohesion. Let me say it like this: the most fundamental of all rights is the right to life. So when Christian Tybring-Gjedde and the Progress Party are attacking the institution of asylum and the possibility for refugees to apply for protection in Norway, they also address a fundamental attack on one of the most fundamental human rights, for the right to life is the most important thing. If they do not respect EU rights and Europe’s conventions on the right not to be returned to a country if life is threatened there, or if the country cannot guarantee protection against torture or inhumane treatment, then Christian Tybring-Gjedde and the Progress Party are not defenders of fundamental human rights. I think that's what we're going to base the Norwegian community on. Nor in the gender equality field does the Progress Party have any glorious history. They have opposed the quotaing of women to rulers, they have been opposed to extending the papacy regime and promise to abolish it at the moment when it was going to happen that they came to power together with the Right. They have opposed the gender equality ombudsman, and they have slowly opposed one of the most important gender equality measures we have taken, namely to ensure free core time in kindergartens around more and more parts of the country, in Oslo and elsewhere, which has ensured that minority children have the same opportunities as children of the majority. And that's how we guarantee equal opportunities and equalization. These are integration policies and gender equality policies. The last one is social cohesion. Let me mention one of the most beautiful things in Norway. There's trust between Norwegian people. In Norway, 60 pst says. other people, other Northmen, other people living in Norway, they have confidence. That's good people. In the United Kingdom, it was like this – until 1979, when Margaret Thatcher came to power. From Margaret Thatcher came to power and forward, trust among people in the United Kingdom has sunk from 60 p.m. down towards 30 pst. Then we notice that there are strong followers of Margaret Thatcher in the Progress Party. Siv Jensen has her as her model. Oslo is the example of how many years of the Right Party and the Advance Party lead to great social differences. No city has major differences in living age. At the winner in Oslo, people live 12 years longer than they do on the Sagens. They live 12 years longer than they do on the Sagens, which is one of the districts that have the largest number of municipal dwellings. The municipality sells away municipal housing while the number of homeless people increases. I would like to say to the Christian People's Party, which complains that the government is responsible for increased indifference: listen! It is in Oslo and Bergen that the number of homeless people is increasing most. There are the right parties, supported by the Christian People's Party. That's the policy on the right. In addition, it's the city that has the most poor children. In my part of town, four out of ten children grow up in families below the low income limit in Norway. They're poor. Eight out of ten of those children have a minority background. The city, the experiment that the Right Party and the Advance Party have run for a number of years, is the city in the country that has the greatest differences between rich and poor, and is therefore also the city that has the biggest challenges of ensuring integration in a good way. Because there's one thing that it's very important to say: social inequality is married to any society. This poison is at the heart of the policy of the Right and the Progressive Party. Christian Tybring-Gjedde is a dangerous man because he runs a party – the Advance Party in Oslo – which, together with Michael Tetzschner's Right, controls this city towards increasing differences. Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Michael Tetzschner are about as concerned with integration policies as the oil companies are of the environment or Siv Jensen are of man-made climate change. Free us from these Margaret Thatchers and Ronald Reagan's disciples. May they never let go of the Norwegian people!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3302	If I go to the store, have been to the city or paid for a craftsman's service, it rarely works well at home to boast about how much money I've spent, without at the same time saying what I've got back for the money. I've experienced that several times. So, the short version: what is the result of my use of money? The vast majority, perhaps with the exception of those who have ended up in the Lucerne trap on TV3, focus on what you get back for what you use. But in the last five years, the principle seems to be totally the opposite in the debates and budget debates. Because with slogans such as ‘the big money on the big tasks’, well-being rather than tax relief and reconstructed scares from abroad, one is able to avoid being able to respond to the challenges of the Right and deal with the fact that: several are in hospital queues several are in line for drug treatment. Private and voluntary services are being closed to the detriment of users one out of five are going out of Norwegian school without being able to read and write properly trained policemen are not getting a job because you are not able to plan to lose the possibility of treating 150,000 more patients because you are not thinking new Yes, a lot of money has been spent in the last five years, but little results have been achieved. At the end of the day, it's probably the result that counts. For us politicians, who dispose of what ordinary people have created and released because we are to represent them and solve common tasks on their behalf, the requirements should be – if possible – even stronger than those I have with my partner at home in order to document what I have spent the money on. Basically, it's a deep moral question how we manage the money and power that people have given us. For interlocking, increasing the privatisation of people's health because people can't stand in line anymore, and a state process that strangles voluntary involvement to the detriment of users, doesn't create a warm society. Nor will it be better to try to cover the lack of results with uninhibited boasting of the amount of money you spend. Throughout this debate, the right has focused on how to ensure sustainable well-being and prepare Norway for the challenges we will face in the future. Many of us have pointed out that government expenditure will be greater than government revenue from 2010. And the luxury it has been for Norwegian politicians to boast of money use, without thinking about the need for reform, will simply not be possible to operate any longer. If we're to keep what we all – and I stress everyone – agree on are values in Norwegian society, we have to provide more knowledge in school, create more rather than taxing more, improving public services by thinking new, and not least being concerned that people who need help, also get it – without having to ri ideological bargains. There is less than one year left for the election. The right has started its one-year campaign again. It consists of going to the door bank – talking to people and getting new political ideas developed. It's sad to see that the Workers' Party's one-year campaign again seems to be just one thing: spreading scares about Right Policy. I think that's pretty sad. But it is also funny that the 2004 tax level is obviously perfect when you listen to one speaker after another from the Labour Party. The tax level was known to have been achieved by agreeing with the Workers' Party to 60-70 pst. of the tax cuts provided by the Right of Government and ensuring that the table was covered in 2005. It is a good thing to see that a ‘social level of taxation’ is at all times the level of taxation that the Workers’ Party is tactically putting on to prevent the possibility of a vote. I do not believe that the principles are quite as strong as part of the most flaming speeches so far could indicate. So finally, Heikki Holmås was concerned that diversity is good. I fully agree with Mr SV and him on this with regard to multicultural Norway. Unfortunately — after following this debate — it does not seem that diversity in other areas is so important, given child protection children, people in drug treatment queues and people who feel that the police are not helping them. Then it is clear that respect for individuals does not go too far for those who are the most high, dark, low and bright in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3340	The right-hand side has today criticised the red-green majority for a status quo mindset, but the right-hand side is wrong. The Norwegian model is constantly evolving, and that is also why Norway is cutting high international levels of productivity, the equivalence of welfare services and small social differences. Erna Solberg argued in his statement that oil wealth was the cause of these results. It's getting too simple. The high proportion of women in working life means much more for Norwegian gross domestic product than oil. For this reason, the Workers' Party has been at the forefront of parental leave and full childcare facilities enabling women to combine working life and family life. This is how we develop the Norwegian model every day. The economic crisis and the elections in Sweden have made it clear that we can no longer talk about a common Nordic model. There are clear differences in the Norwegian and Swedish models, in the red-green regime and in the bourgeois system. The blue alliance in Sweden has cut taxes by 100 billion. kr. We see the mirror image in Norwegian politics. The right hand and the forward hand will remove the property tax, which alone corresponds to the operation of 15 000 health homes. The red-green majority would rather spend the money building up well-being. The blue alliance has cut 25 000 jobs in the public sector. Since 2005, the red-green majority has increased the number of annual works by over 16 000 only in the care sector. In Sweden, unemployment is increasing. In Norway, we have achieved the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. And as a speech to the last speaker and his description of our black paint of Right Policy: 280 of 330 police students have already got a job. We spend money to facilitate value creation and re-establishment – as through the historical investment in transport through new NTPs. Earlier this summer we were presented with an SSB report that argued that most of the value creation takes place in Oslo. Anyone who has traveled along our long-distance coast knows that this does not give a proper picture of where and how values are created in Norway. Furniture production, fishing, mining and oil and gas production are not found in Oslo, but in the districts. It requires an infrastructure in which ports act as an efficient traffic hub, where roads have asphalt cover and are race-proof, a well-developed small air service and an efficient and reliable railway. Since 2005, we have tripled the money for racial protection. That is why we have finally started securing the road to Gryllefjord – one of the largest fishing nets in North Norway. This is important for value creation, for people to get to work, but this is also welfare policy, because parents no longer need to be afraid to send their students – their kids – to school. We have to stop the decay on the highways. In 2009 and 2010, we added over 7,000 kilometres of new asphalt. In winter thousands of train passengers stood in the east and froze while waiting for the train. That's not good enough. People should be able to trust that you can reach the job in time and get the kids before the kindergarten closes. That is why we are repatriating the Norwegian railway – through maintenance and through investment in new tracks and new materials. It'll take time, but we're on it. That's how we build infrastructure. That's how we create work, values and growth. The red-green majority has a joint welfare project, a joint work project, a common climate project. What the opposition has in common, other than a unanimous complaint, has not given us an answer to this debate either. The climate challenge we face in the transport sector is a good example of that. Greenhouse gas emissions from the sector account for about a third and therefore need to be reduced. But here the games on the right-hand side are completely disagreeable. The Arne Sortevik of the Progress Party rejects a link between anthropogenic emissions and global warming. In reality, the right has broken the climate agreement of which they themselves are a part, because they do not want to introduce traffic-restrictive measures, while the Christian People's Party has proved to be an important partner for us in climate issues in the transport committee. I have noticed that party representatives carry on backpacks with the inscription: «I bear my burden myself.» It is honest, it is hearty and it shows what kind of extreme right-wing policy we will get with the Progress Party in government. It's a heavy should wear if you wear it. That's why the red-green majority hangs about well-being, because we've realized that we have to bear our burdens together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3363	‘It is far from this country. Most of it is north," said Rolf Jacobsen. I can sign it. The centre party believes that it is important to reduce distances, reduce distance barriers and reduce bottlenecks for efficient traffic management. We also believe that it is important to build the country, even though we have to bet strongly and continue to bet, there are tasks that remain. We're going to take out the potential for value creation around the country, and then the link between nutrition and transport is very important. We need to create more if we are to distribute more – to strengthen research and development, so that we can convert from fossil to renewable energy, to energy savings and to greener business and to longer value chains. Competence and research are essential for Norway to be able to compete in international competition. The fight for the good heads is not just between regions in Norway – we are not least competing with other countries. Good transport solutions are essential for creating new jobs and for people to live where they want to. We promised a change of pace in our transport policy, and we are in the process of doing so. We are equipping the infrastructure to make everyday life easier for people, to take the climate challenges seriously, to make society more accessible to everyone and to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. Transnova and research into new technologies are important instruments for getting a smarter and greener transport sector. The Transport Committee now visited SINTEF in Trondheim in autumn and received an update on what they were developing in the field. There are exciting opportunities — for vehicle development, for better planning of service racks and for vehicle control — to mention something. Transnova researches, inter alia: on electric ferries, which may be interesting for part of the ferry. It is important that we be able to bet on both climate-friendly transport and taking business into account. A differentiated transport policy is important. It has to be if we're going to make use of the whole country. Increased investment in transport will mean increased investment in the development and maintenance of the road network for District Norway, good ferry services, race safety and development of ports and fairways. In urban and urban areas, road will still mean a lot, but not least, rail and public transport will mean much more. The most targeted investment on the railway means that we can move a lot of freight from road to rail. This will be an important step for both the environment and road safety. Building safer roads is important, but solid, mind-building work needs to be done. The number of fatal accidents is often related to speed, rush and lack of safety belt use. Walking and cycling routes are important for soft road users. In the roadway we still need to build several physical measures on the roads, such as yellow middle stripe, middle parts and other markings. The link between industry and commerce is, as I said, important for the Centre Party. The large road and rail development provided by the government will reduce transport costs for business. Smart solutions are important. The Minister of Transport has just indicated that the construction of Hålogalandsbrua on the E6 between Narvik and Bjerkvik will take place – a clear wish from a whole part of the country. Here, the Narvik airport is being put into the pot to finance a bridge over the Rombaksfjord. It will strengthen under the offer of Harstad/Narvik airport at Evenes, and E6 will be briefed. This is an exciting solution, where you exchange something to get something you think is better. Soon we will test whether investment, operation and maintenance in the same project may have a way to go. It may have significant transfer value if this goes straight. Several fjord crossings of the concept are selected to find the best solutions for continental connections. And the county councils build roads like never before, and see links with development in business and land needs. New measures in the field of public transport are under way. Several cities strongly focus on the conversion of the bus fleet to more environmentally friendly fuels; both natural gas and biogas are alternatives to diesel. In the districts, new collective approaches are being tested. The district mobile in the north and the order transport in the north are two such good, clever grips. This shows that creativity and activity are great both at the state level and at the central level. «Go to the wind. Cut the mountains – another quote from Rolf Jacobsen. When the opposition calls for more reforms, my answer – the message – is from all the trips I have been on, alone or with the committee, short and good: spend time and money on maintenance and investment. And that's what we're doing. We're going to split mountains, we're going to lay asphalt, we're going to make better collective offerings, and we're going to be impatient after doing more concrete work. The centre party is prepared to go against the wind, fight hard to shrink distances and secure business and residence throughout the country good and timely communication solutions that are beneficial to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3399	Let me first make a little visit to -- in this case -- both Harold Wilson's and James Callaghan's disciples, Heikki Holmås. I don't think there's any suction, even in your own party, to go back to the time before Margaret Thatcher. It was, after all, Margaret Thatcher who laid the foundation for recent British policies, a policy that both Conservatives and Labour have followed up in retrospect, and a policy that provided the basis for a completely different competitive force for the United Kingdom. Let me also remind the representative Bjørnflaten that the Right does not wish to break or have broken the climate agreement. On the contrary, the Right was an instigator in the Stortinget for the climate agreement. We established a climate settlement that was significantly better than what the government put on the table. And it's this government that's spent three years following the Storting on the climate deal, and it's not expected a case for Stortinget until another year. Norway is the winner of globalisation – we sell our raw materials expensive, we import cheap – a globalization that has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty only in the last ten years. But the financial crisis in the last two years has pushed back tens of millions in poverty. It's the back cover of this throne, a back cover that can be hard to see with the black paint with a broad brush from both the right and the left. Our opportunity is now, it is now and for the next ten years that we have a surplus on the state budget – a huge surplus on the state budget. I share Helga Pedersen's summary that Norway is fundamentally good, Norwegian policy is fundamentally good. But I do not at all share the representative's lack of questions, lack of choice. What are we going to live on after the oil? Or, how do we get the most well-being out of the billions we actually spend? For the main difference in Norwegian policy, both the view of individuals and the view of money is reflected. On the right, a policy that focuses on individuals, which says that it is of little importance if the service is offered by private or public, only the public that stands as a supplier, a quality control officer, and the private that receives the service can itself evaluate by going to one or another. As far as money is concerned, this debate has shown the extent of the abyss. Over 400 billion. kr of oil revenue has only been used since 2006, and the question we have to ask is: have we got the most well-being for the money again? Helga Pedersen said we've had the asphalt summers of the ages. Yes, there is still a rather lean asphalt winter in store. For me, the view of money is not about using a zero-sum game as a starting point. No, it's actually about the economy that we have that we can make a lot bigger – much bigger by raising our eyes and asking the question: What are we going to live on in the future? How do we use the means we have today to create well-being tomorrow? It seems to be a topic that this debate has unfortunately fallen by. Because I'm concerned, along with the Right, that it's worth working, that creating a job is fundamentally positive, that being a founder is an honour, that having a profitable company is to be premiered and not punished. But it's also about what we use public welfare bills for. How can it be defended to spend over 400 billion dollars? kr and have a health queue that goes from below 200,000 to below 250,000? Or an increase in the police budget, which means – at present – that the 50 temporary posts in the Greenland police station are not now going to become permanent posts as they were suggested just a short time ago. Or that we have a hub that cannot see the individual because there are now so strong restrictions on the implementation of measures, because there is no money in the next six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3416	Today's debate will focus primarily on the King's speech. But it wasn't just the King who spoke on Saturday. The President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy did the same. And as usual, he gave a good speech. "All countries have governments, but only democracies have opposition," he said. He was particularly concerned with the role and working conditions of the opposition. Well spoken by the President. The opposition must be guaranteed good working conditions and the opposition must be taken seriously. But there must also be demands on the opposition, and when I have heard the speakers from the Right and the Progress Party in today's debate, there is reason for some reflection. The spouse of the misdemeanor shall be searched for a long time. One might ask, what is the point of this huge black paint of today's Norway? Does that country serve the interests of the people? Nope. Can't we use debates like the debate of the throne to raise the big debates, instead of entraping ourselves into traditional boilers where the opposition is pinned into misery descriptions? The whole soul of social democracy's exercise of politics consists in making people's everyday lives a little bit better. That certainly does this government as well. And in many of the big issues, even several of the opposition parties have been involved in the design of the policy. So let's also be a little proud of a lot of what we've gotten into together. The political memory is short. Let's not forget what's been accomplished in the last few years. Norwegian society evolves a little after a while, stone on stone. The service offer is being expanded, people's everyday lives are getting a little bit better. Everyone who wants kindergarten is now getting it. But it's only been two years since many young children's parents didn't know how to get their everyday life to jump because they didn't get kindergarten. Let's not forget that. We often hear and read about things that don't work in Norwegian school. But what about all the things that work to some extent brilliant? Norwegian schools are advanced educational institutions, and today's school is at least much better than the school I attended 30 years ago. Let's not forget that. The same is true of care for the elderly and the health services. We hear today about how miserable it is. Of course, there are problems and challenges, but let us not forget all the good work done, and all the good care and patient care that takes place every day and night. Yes, there are challenges in Norway. Yes, these are unsolved tasks, preserved. By the way, I assume that's exactly why people say yes to let themselves choose this house. But let's not forget all the good work that is done, and all the results that this government can show. September 15, 2010 will be a historic day. Then Norway and Russia signed the Agreement on Maritime Demarcation and Cooperation in the Barents Sea and the Arctic Ocean, the so-called ‘Part Line Agreement’. The agreement marks the end point of a long process that has been in progress since 1970, i.e. for 40 years. It's historical, what's happening now. But do we hear anything about it from the right-wing speakers here today? No, no, no. That's so quiet. The part-line agreement with Russia is visible evidence that the world is changing. Not long ago, the first ship of iron ore from Southvaranger Gruve in Kirkenes passed through the north-east passage to China. Quite unimaginable and impossible just a few years ago! By changing the world around us, the image of security policy is also changing. New challenges require new solutions. When I heard Siv Jensen earlier today, I was really quite sorry. She has obviously not taken over the new security policy picture. The defense is going in the wrong direction, she said and added that a planned reduction of the defence is being made. That's not right at all. The truth is, we are about to get one of Europe's most modern defenses. Then to claim that the defense is going in the wrong direction, and that it is being built down, is a mockery against all the soldiers, all the command and all the civil servants of the Defense who are in the middle of big shifts. The agreed long-term defence plan of the size is the government's governance document and must be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3439	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3442	Since the establishment of the Sørlanden hospital, the Arendal hospital has been built up a bit by bit. Revmatological department, ear, nose, neck and car surgery is something that has been moved from the hospital. This is a very serious situation for the inhabitants of my county. The neurology department and the children's department now seem to be facing a fall. For several years, departments at the hospital in East-Agder have been in summer. Now, what we've feared for a long time – the hospital management wants to coordinate the neurological department outside Aust-Agder, and they will also close our children's ward. It is never a matter of any department being transferred from other hospitals to the hospital in Aust-Agder. What's the next one going to be? What department will disappear from our hospital once this is completed? How much can disappear from the hospital before we no longer have a full hospital? And what happens when it's so far? Is that what the government thinks is equality or equal treatment? This is a situation in which the people of East Agder will not find themselves. We want to keep and further develop the departments we have, so that we have a good hospital, both for patients and employees, also in the future. And we want openness. It's gonna be a fight for our hospital. I was happy when I heard earlier today the Prime Minister's posts, where he talked about a nursing home where they transported x-rays to the hospital, so that patients would avoid a stressful journey. Then I expect him to also think that small, sick children should not be moved between hospitals on weekends, but that the treatment device should be in the hospital to which they are going to go. E 18 through East Agder is a sad sight, but with some good midterms. The stretch from East-Agder's border to West-Agder to Grimstad is brilliant, but the rest of the way is so useless. The small piece of road approx. 2 km between Arendal and Tvedestrand, in fact, the whole stretch from Arendal to Risør, causes major problems and tragedies for those affected by traffic accidents. It is difficult to understand that it is so difficult to understand that using money to build up and upgrade the road network at the other end will bring savings by the radical decline in accident statistics. I would like to say that I expect the government in its 2011 budget to see the importance of getting work started, and that they will grant the money to do so that this piece of road is realized as quickly as possible. A distance of approx. 4 km, where the new four-field motorway in East Agder and Grimstad passes into the two-field road with no middle parts, has been particularly problematic. There is an accident involving passenger cars and heavy-duty vehicles in the opposite lane. We've had a lot of meeting accidents here. The fact that there has been only one fatal accident in the last six months on this route is due to pure and sharp flapping. This distance up to the Grimstad port towards Arendal needs repairs and middle parts. On behalf of Grimstad and East-Agder, I am looking forward to a small part of the state budget this year – because it will come tomorrow. State Council Kleppa has promised in writing money for this section three times in writing, and she has promised that the money will be put in the State budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3457	As the second year’s biggest representative, it was with excitement that I got ready for the speech of the throne this year. I have to admit that the whole setting with the solemn opening did something to me unfocused last year, but this year I was prepared – just to remember in particular the matters relating to my Committee – the Kuf Committee. Suddenly it was all over. Nothing new! There's going to be a high school report. That's good. Youth school is important, and must be seen as one of the most important courses in the school cycle. Of course, we are looking forward to that matter, and we promise great commitment! The second concrete promise in the census is an increase in the number of study places. Yes, today there are too few places, they are underfunded, the sector has far more students than they have funding for, and not least the government itself has provided figures to show that there is a significant growth in youth schools in the future. I'm going to wait for the budget with an open mind tomorrow and hope that the promised increase is something more than a little bit of lag, but I'm afraid I'm going to be disappointed there too. Otherwise, the budget leak would have been a fact at this point too. ‘It becomes essential to ensure high quality of the study offer’, says the Common Era. The Government shall ‘continue to invest in education’. If these vague wordings mean a continuation of what is now, there is no way to follow up the celebrations or new years! Where did the Prime Minister’s ‘Knowledge drummer’ go? And where was it of the "stake on knowledge" of the times? After hearing the debate here today, I believe I have found some of the explanation. Time after time, government parties have used their energy to attack the bourgeois parties in terms of government cooperation. In the near panic-map gait, one after the other, one has painted a future scenario in an attempt to scare the voters. I understand that the polls at the moment can be depressing, but then you would completely lose the ability to take responsibility for the year ahead, and to have visions for the country in 2010 and 2011, I would not have believed. When one in addition uses the energy to dig down in how the Right will organize for a few percent of the population who could want to go to a private school of their choice, well then there won't be much energy left to develop visions and goals for all of those for whom we know we have a responsibility. By the way, it was exciting to hear Torgeir Micaelsen tell us about the large student mass, I think he said it was almost half, as ‘mode to go’ at private high school in the Drammen. No, they didn't have to go there, they chose to go there. It's spectacular and exciting. Yes, President and Prime Minister, knowledge trumps. Then we have to have a complete deck, which contains the trump cards. The right would spend over a billion more on knowledge in the current year to ensure the quality of education. I hope the government will do more than last year and fill the deck!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3476	Norway is a multicultural society, and immigrants are also an important part of the Norwegian model. Immigrants in Norway now account for slightly more than 11 pst. by the population and are important contributors to the Norwegian welfare community. We see it in the workplace, in different educational institutions and in cultural life. Norway will continue to pursue a consistent and fair asylum policy, and we see that the number of asylum seekers has fallen significantly. So the question is, what about the integration of those who get to be? We have a lot of knowledge and statistics to show that Norway manages to integrate immigrants in many areas. For some it takes a little longer to get into work, but statistics show that these chances increase by the number of years you live in Norway. Both work and education are important instruments to prevent immigrants from having to live on social benefits. And I want to point out that the number of immigrants living on social assistance has fallen. In order to confirm what makes our integration work successful, we need to look at the figures for participation, education and living conditions. Although we succeed in several areas, there are still challenges, for example: that the level of unemployment remains too high among some groups of immigrants. In particular, it is important for the Workers' Party to focus on immigrant women. Women from Somalia, Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan have under 40 pst. participation in employment and has greater living conditions challenges than both the majority population and other immigrant groups. Many of the immigrants who came to Norway in the 1970s have reached an age when they need care and care. Norwegian society needs to facilitate their safe and healthy ageing in Norway. Today, data show that free core time in kindergarten is a very successful way of integrating children and providing them with Norwegian school start-ups. It is therefore very gratifying that the government in the 2011 budget expands the scheme in the form of a new free core-time project in Årstad Town in Bergen, and that they are also continuing the regional effort in this part of the city, an area effort with which we have been successful in the Groruddalen here in Oslo. The school is the best integration arena, and the Workers' Party has great ambitions on behalf of the community school and all the students who go there. In primary schools, children and young people from different walks of life meet. Social community and focus on school cooperation provide fewer social conflicts in the Norwegian community. Today’s teachers’ forces must be able to handle a larger number of bilingual students and to continue the good development that today allows many immigrant students to take higher education and get good grades. We have not been served with the Party's scare campaign against immigrants and the party's cut in measures that work for better integration, such as: Norwegian education and free core time in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3495	The throne is the government's leading party speech. This government is happy in party speeches. Out in everyday life – far from the celebrations – reality plays out, under this government often very independent and very unimpeded by the government's celebrations. We who live in the West are often reminded that the West is too far from Oslo, under this government a little too often. The case of new power lines in Hardanger has again shown that the political distance between state bureaucracy and political leadership on the one hand and one of the country’s most valuable regions on the other is great – worryingly great. Of course, when distance results in political overruns, it leads to reactions. The strong responses to the construction of monster masts in the national Hardanger landscape have forced several of the government's leading leaders on a long time to Hardanger. Monday a week ago, it was the Prime Minister's turn. He gave a little hope of a new course in the powerline case. On the contrary, the handling of the case is reinforced when the region’s largest newspaper on the same day as the visit has a ‘crucifixion’ from Statnet. The constant repetitions of government teams to start the construction of power masts in October seem more provocative than reassuring. In addition, the launch of four studies does not provide much reassurance when the two main areas are not included, namely the study on power needs and the coverage of potential power needs through regional and local production. I recall the Prime Minister's invitation to consult in a New Year's speech – also a celebration. In the case of the monster masts we see little advice – mostly to overrun. In the case of the monster masts, we also see little about the government's environmental policy. But the inhabitants notice it. Construction on own property or start-up of mini-power plants gets no, no, and again no from the Ministry of Environment, while monster masters and now also monster trains quickly get green light. In the same track is the government's handling of the U-864 submarine with mercury outside the sea in Fedje, Hordaland. The government's promises of removal have been replaced by new uncertainties about investigation, including the cover-up option, which professionals strongly advise against. My call to the government for both the monster mast and the monster load is to listen to the people. At least let the Storting decide the sample mast case and make sure that the mercury cargo is not covered on the seabed outside the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3512	Several representatives of the red-green side have today, in their contributions, focused on the family and gender policy pursued here in the country. I'm not going to repeat the arguments, but I just want to say that I fully agree with what has been said. A few days ago, we received a character book on the industrial policy of the red-green government. NHO and the business community gave character to what they define as the main industrial policy areas. I'm not going to go into a discussion about NHO's priorities in this room, nor the characterisation. My main point in including the character book in this debate is that I think it is interesting that important policy areas such as equality and family policy are not defined as important enough in a business development perspective. Why the NHO and the business community leave out these policy areas, they almost have to respond to themselves, but I have to be allowed to say that it surprises me, precisely because the Norwegian family policy has contributed to the world's highest professional participation among women. It has led to a much higher value creation than what we would otherwise have. And for that reason, equality is also a very good and important industrial policy. In Norway, we have a working life of high productivity and good employee rights. At the same time, business can become even more family friendly. For this reason, the government wants to challenge the social partners to make it easier to combine work with family. We have to recognize that we still have a way to go. The best way to get the best result is that all parties give equal priority to this area. Now the picture is not black and white. Many businesses take this seriously. In an article in DN from July 19 this year, we read about the melting plant Eramet Norway Kvinesdal as a sponsoring life course for its employees. The sick leave was large and something had to be done. They discovered that much of the absence was related to life problems. ‘Privacy and working life are closely linked. If you don't feel well at home, you don't feel well at work and vice versa," said the personnel manager at the melting plant. We do have all our experiences that can confirm such a message. It is part of the story that the melting plant in retrospect had a decrease of 3 pst. in sick leave. In the evening of 23 September this year, we read about Microsoft Norway, which has put gender equality high on the agenda, because it gives a good record for the company, the employees and not least the employees' families. The recital in the Evening Post article was that in the United States people would be shocked because they think the Norwegian parental leave scheme has gone too far. Therefore, it is a little sad to note that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy is in the process of thinking the same thing. What has been fought as a right is now to be replaced by voluntary action. It's the right-hand side's solution to future gender equality policies. Finally, I would like to encourage ourselves, the business community, the NHO and others to put equality and family policy on the agenda for shaping today's and tomorrow's industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3529	Let me begin by commending the government for the work of protecting the rain forest. If we succeed in this work, it will have a greater impact on climate accounting than any other action in Norway. It is therefore essential that we manage to translate the good intentions into tangible results over time. However, the fact that we seem to succeed in taking an important step out of the way is no excuse for a standstill at home. I think most of us can agree that neither this nor previous governments have done enough to cut emissions in Norway. In fact, emissions have been reduced from 2008 to 2009, but something else would have been surprising, taking the financial crisis into account. The fact that neither this nor previous governments have done enough, however, is no reason not to do more now. There is little role for world emissions if Norway is able to reduce emissions by 20 pst. at home by 2020. However, it is important that we deliver on our promises – for two reasons. First, we have to show the will to do our part of the job. Otherwise, we will lose all credibility in the international climate negotiations. Secondly, Norway has a responsibility to demonstrate that it is actually possible to combine high living standards with low emissions. A high-cost country such as Norway can never claim to be the cheapest. We have to assert ourselves by being smarter, better, more innovative and very adaptable. Green technology is an important part of that picture. For example, the industry in Norway is: among the purest in the world. There is a competitive advantage in designing the EU's new quota regimes, a competitive advantage that is closely linked to our ambition to cut emissions – not simply to move them. If we're going to trigger the technological quantum leap required to reduce emissions by close to 100 pst. By 2050, we are totally dependent on potent instruments. The right has therefore proposed that eco-innovation be a fourth investment area for oil money use in Norway, in addition to the three proposed by Stoltenberg I, which Stoltenberg II has left, but which remains behind: knowledge, infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax incentives. The last is what the Stoltenberg II government calls voodoo politics. Norway has knowledge, competence and capital to be part of the climate solution, and if we play our cards properly, the climate challenge need not be just a problem; it can also be an opportunity to create new green jobs in the knowledge economy. Technological development is essential, but not sufficient to reduce emissions in Norway. We also need concrete measures, and they need to be implemented urgently. Unfortunately, the review by the National Audit Office of the government's climate policy gives little reason for optimism. The verdict is clear: big words, little action, few results. Enova, the government's main tool for implementing energy conversion and energy efficiency improvement, was also subject to pressing criticism. In fact, Norway is the only country in Europe with no clear energy efficiency improvement targets. It must be unacceptable. The government cannot blame the opposition. The government has a majority and must bear responsibility alone. But future generations will carry the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3546	The word 'freedom' has been widely used in this debate. The ones that have turned most around with this word are the Right and the Advance Party. It has once again been clear to me that what they think about when they say freedom, not necessarily what really gives most people the opportunity to live an equal and free life. They also talk about the individual and produce their policy as a threat to the individual. In a world where the financial crisis has caused major problems for a great many individual people around the world, it is worth highlighting that the red-green government has focused on securing Norwegian jobs and securing the future of the Norwegian welfare society. Individual human beings cannot flourish without good living conditions. A rich soil for each of us does not come of itself, but requires that we who are set to govern this country, use the resources properly, stimulate business for further value creation, secure an economic foundation for all citizens, and have an education system that stimulates the greatest of young people. It is important and right to stress that everything is obviously not very well in our society. But our country has stood well through a crisis, and the direction is as it should. The red-green government has shown the will, ability and strength to bet on a varied set of tools to ensure a good interaction between the private and public sectors – a success factor has been shown. These tools are such as a government consisting of the opposition Party Right and the Progress Party would have allergic reactions. Being free is for me tied to being safe and having the same possibilities as others, regardless of where you live, how rich your parents are, and whether you are a woman or a man. The central party has been busy in government promoting values like equivalency and equal opportunities for everyone, and we're going to continue this important job together with our government partners. The right hand side and the right hand side will add up a multiple after the next big shot. For the rest of us, the idea is more like a nightmare. For although it is true that differences in Norwegian policy are smaller than in many other countries, the Progress Party has never had one hand on the steering wheel except when it has influenced the direction a part as a support party for a government. A steady hand on the steering wheel is important on the road that the nation of Norway is going to run forward. A government consisting of the two named parties will not hold a good course if the goal is freedom for the individual according to the definition I have given of freedom and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3564	Size has just been opened again. I understand that it has been a long summer, and that there may be some startup problems for someone. But when we are so many different representatives who are going to work together, it is important that we understand each other, that we speak the same language, and that the words mean the same thing. That's why I'm going to talk a little bit about freedom and what it really means, because more representatives who have spoken today must have a completely different dictionary than what I have. One of our foremost tasks as a national Parliament is to guarantee our citizens equal levels of freedom. I believe, however, that there is a mistake in the Norwegian political discourse when one allows himself to talk about freedom without laying the foundations of security in this room today. It is impossible to build a society that aims to secure man's right to fail without building it on schemes that allow everyone to bet without going with guaranteed loss. It is the security that the Norwegian social-democratic model has built in the form of full child care, care for the elderly, a public school, gender equality and not least the tripartite cooperation in the workplace, which ensures that more people can be selected and that more people can participate. The goal of the next year is to continue to make this model better and stronger. When the representative, Solberg, says that she will also bet on more well-being, I'm a little stunned – not just because she doesn't have so much about this in her party program, but because she says that giving money to welfare solutions won't provide better welfare. Then I wonder: What is it that will give better well-being and more freedom through security? Is there the Right's solution to giving less money to well-being? Is there their solution to cutting income into the common fund, so that we get less freedom, worse services and fewer opportunities? I think the answer is a noisy no. What I don't understand, on the other hand, is how the Right can believe that they can get a welfare policy coverage on a political programme that consistently proposes to prevent Community income and cut into our common freedom. I record that it is modern in this persuasion debate not to answer specific questions. But if you don't get an answer the first time, you get another question. That is why I would like to take up the Pedersen question to the representative Erna Solberg: is there the only country where there are small differences in living standards, which have a high level of well-being and which at the same time has implemented as huge cuts in revenues to its common platform of freedom, as proposed by the Right in conjunction with the Progress Party? Maybe there are some Right-Representatives after me on the list of speakers who can answer that, so that we can see what their political projects really are. Well-being and freedom are at least not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3577	Today's debate has in many ways become a debate on the Norwegian or Nordic model. I have to admit that I think it is a little sad that the red-greens have used the entire debate just to scare a possible new government, and that it is in one way prejudicial to today's debate. I should like today's debate to focus as much on what we want to do next year. I have to say that what worries me the most, and I'm going to spend a lot of time on the next year, is that poverty increases, and for the first time in 16 years, the number of recipients of social assistance increased. Norway's differences are increasing. The Minister of Finance calls it a good development. Today's government has not done it for the poor in Norway. Instead, we've got a government that only drives terror with what can come, instead of focusing on the tasks that actually stand ahead of them. At the same time, I also have to say that what worries me especially is that in certain areas there are statistics and figures that concern me a lot. The state that I represent, East-Agder, is one of the states that is hard frame. That's what most young non-pensioners do. 51 out of 1,000 people between the ages of 18 and 49 are disabled. In particular, we have many recipients of social assistance. There are over 2,000 out of 100,000 people living in poverty in East Agder. There's a bigger problem with smoking and alcohol than it is in the rest of the country. This is combined with the fact that it is a positive and positive region, with a high level of competence in offshore and high technological competence. But at the same time, there are major social challenges that I think politicians need to address. In many ways one might say that there are challenges that are in line with what we have in Oslo East and in Finnmark, but that in many ways have been a little hidden. There are many measures that should have been taken. There should be an even greater commitment to family policy, to address the problems as early as possible. One should strengthen child protection, gain higher competences in kindergarten. One should have a school that sees that youth is different, and that grips the early days when they fall out, and that sees that young people need challenges at their level. We need to make Nav even better able to reverse developments, so that young people, or people who fall out of work, are helped back and get work training so that they can come back. But I also believe that society, or politicians, can take responsibility by moving out jobs, creating more facilities and jobs that can also help a state that is struggling with high unemployment. My main concern is that the social challenges in Agder, and perhaps especially in East Agder, are too serious to be translated. That's why I want the next year to focus even more on the areas that need extra action, and that there will be extra measures and more targeted means against Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3594	This year’s census is likely to be remembered because it has been marked by the fact that fundamental political principles are opposed. From the Right, we underline the individual's ability to control his own life, bet on the voluntary sector, that the welfare of the future is created through value creation and growth, not through increased taxes, and that these are values that provide both vitality and sustainability. On the other hand, we have heard from the government parties, which emphasizes that it is the state that knows best, and that the tax bill is at least as important as the ballot for future developments. The red-greens are obviously surprised that not everyone agrees with them on the excellence of social democracy. Next year's municipal elections will probably be both exciting and engaging. For us in the Right, the elections are also an opportunity to stress that local democracy and local autonomy are a foundation in a good society. A good society is based on real participation from the local environment, via municipalities and up to national level. The fact that the individual has a strong influence over his own life situation is an independent political value for the Right. The municipalities constitute the very core wall of the local government, and the municipalities represent both the belonging and the possibility of influence for the individual population. But in recent years, the right to dispose of large areas and values has moved from local authorities to state authorities. This has in many places led to a crisis of confidence between local communities and central authorities. The movement of power challenges a tradition in which natural areas have been managed through largely careful local use To a large extent, municipalities feel that municipal plans and local plans meet objections from general authorities. This weakens the ability of municipalities to take control of local community development. It undermines the potential for food and housing development. For this reason, the Right today promoted a proposal for a representative to strengthen local democracy and property rights in environmental and land management. This proposal makes a fundamental distinction in Norwegian policy, namely the right belief that society must be built from below, as opposed to government policy, leading to the centralisation of power and the depletion of local democracy. This summer, we got to demonstrate the power of local democracy when the state's override goes too far. I'm thinking about the decision to build the power line in Hardanger. Here we saw the strength of communities that feel overwhelmed and ignored. This is a positive force. Right will give municipalities greater freedom and responsibility. It will provide better opportunities for the development of good communities. It will provide better anchoring for environmental policy, and it will provide greater scope for action to find good solutions for societal development – based on local conditions and local policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3613	The government has the ambition to increase value creation throughout the country. A key element of this work is the development of a new major communication on agricultural and food policy. I hope we'll get a message that can gather a broad majority of the Stortinget, and set out a sustainable course for agriculture. I record that many in the industry are very concerned about what will happen if the right parties, with their cut policy, would come into a position to manage agricultural policy. It's very important to avoid that. I remind you that the Right and Advance Party cut 2 billion, respectively. kr and 6 brd. kr for agriculture. It would be a dramatic downturn for an industry that is the carrier and the main supplier of raw materials to the food industry. Work on the message is being met with great interest and enthusiasm across the country. Recordings are running on. I look forward to the message being sent to Stortinget in the spring session and to the treatment that awaits. Mineral and mining industry is another industry that meets exciting times. Here the Workers' Party has taken hold of the industrial party. We've put in place a new mineral law. Now we're working on a coordinated policy, or strategy, for this industry, and we're strengthening our efforts to map the mineral resources primarily in North Norway. We're doing that through a four-year plan with a frame of 100 million. where the first appropriations are now entered in the budget of the year. In our neighbouring countries, the mineral industry represents great value creation. The workplaces will be where the resource is located. Developments in both Sweden and Finland are a good example in this way, most recently documented in a large edition of the Evening Post of 1 October. The working party wants the mineral industry to become an even more important district industry than it already is. We're talking about important value creation and employment for the future. There is a natural link between the mining industry and the power-processing industry. Here in Norway, we are world leaders both technologically and competently. We need to facilitate further development of this industry in Norway. Therefore, it is also so pleasant to mention that despite the fact that Mid Norway does not have the best framework conditions for the power-generating industry, Elkem now invests a quarter of a billion dollars in a new energy recovery facility at Elkem Thamshavn. They recover one third of the energy they consume, and ensure that Elkem Thamshavn strengthens its position as the world's most energy-efficient silicon works. It is good for Elkem, it is good for Norwegian industry, and it is good for the global environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3624	The debate on where the value creation in Norway is the largest arises at regular intervals. This harvest has been claimed by several teams that there is greater value creation in Oslo than in the rest of the country. Here, emphasis is placed on where the value creation is accounted for, without taking into account where the actual production takes place. On the part of the Centre Party, we will warn against this misrepresentation, which does not give a proper picture, but creates artificial lines of division between the city and the district. We are clearly dependent on good cooperation between the city and the district to produce and trade goods. I would also like to highlight that very much of our value creation is based on natural resources. Production takes place throughout the country, while several of the head offices are located in Oslo. Therefore, well-paid management and staff taxes to Oslo, although there are other parts of the country that have the production and the natural basis. Let me in this context bring out the seafood industry. It is one of Norway’s most important export industries, and value creation takes place along the whole coast, while companies such as the United States, Japan, Japan and the United States, are engaged in such activities. Aker Seafoods has its headquarters in Oslo. Thus, the value creation of this company is included in the statistics on value creation in Oslo, while the real values are created along the coast in the north and west. Another example is the power company E-CO Energie, formerly Oslo Energie, where the production of electricity takes place in the west, while the tax revenue is recorded in Oslo. I would also like to focus on another industry that is important throughout the country, namely travel. Fjord Norway and NordNorwegian Travel Life are examples of good cooperation solutions to promote the marketing of different regions of the country. The cooperation models in the west and in the north also arouse interest in other parts of the country, and I think it is very positive that actors in Fjell-Norway are now taking the order to look at cooperation within travel life in the mountain region in the west. The centre party is concerned that agriculture and tourism should go hand in hand, through a conscious focus on good experiences in which agriculture can offer quality food and a cultural landscape in active operation. The centre party is committed to facilitating closer cooperation between agriculture and tourism in order to promote such development. The economy is constantly evolving, and we as suppliers of framework conditions need to be alert in order to facilitate further development and simplification, especially for small businesses. By means of a reduced form fields, we will be able to save costs for the state and for the individual actor. Here we must be willing to look at audit obligations, fund schemes, capital requirements and other measures. The centre is committed to facilitating the growth and development of business throughout the country, and we are particularly concerned with the conditions of small businesses. This is an area we want to pay a lot of attention in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3647	We've put behind us a year of financial crisis and market crisis. In this picture, the nation of Norway stands up as a mountain. This government has chosen the right strategy, with financial control, which has led to a continuing low interest rate and stable exchange rate, and we have managed to maintain employment. It's like Helga Pedersen said: Norwegian economy is strong. I hear in this debate that the opposition is annoyed, even in a bad mood that we are talking about this at all. And it's probably awfully annoying that this country is doing so well. It is not to hide that there has been a difficult situation. Fishing is an industry that has really got inflamed in this time. Both the land and the sea actors have had two tough years. In the last year there has been little profitability in the smallest fleet due to low cod prices. One might say that the only positive thing about the low cod prices is that more Europeans eat more cod from Norway, and let us hope that they will continue to do so – even when cod prices rise. We in Norway can be proud that this government has provided a good fisheries management that is shaped by moderation and long-term thinking. That's the whole key to our strategy being successful, and we've been assigned the world's best fisheries managers for years in a row. This includes, among other things: has led, for example, to the largest cod population observed since the 1940s. But we have to be careful; we have to make sure that the stock is not taxed beyond its capacity to withstand. Norway is one of the world's largest fishing nations. We have the right to have biological resources in an enormous area. The area has become even larger with the historic part-line agreement that has just been signed with Russia. The fishery and aquaculture industries have combined both in 2009 and so far in 2010 set new export records. However, while Norwegian fisheries management and Norwegian aquaculture management are seen as world leaders, we still face challenges in both sectors. It is therefore important that this government will follow up the actions of the sustainability strategy for the aquaculture industry, which was presented in April 2009. I record optimism in the industry. There is no need to change the course. A dark blue fisheries policy would lead to a large-scale liberalisation of Norwegian fisheries, which would simply lead to a total release in this industry. I think the world has had enough of free market forces to control development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3666	This has been a strange debate. I have been sitting in the hall and tried to follow up on the debate. What goes on again is that the red-green criticises and scares with blue politics, accusing the opposition of illiteracy. One would almost think that the red-greens had put up the election campaign for a strategy to scare instead of talking about their own policy. One would almost think that there is a majority of the population who want this government, but at least it doesn't show exactly the polls today. The representative Myrli called for the will to raise the major debates. That's actually exactly what the opposition has been trying to do in this persuasion debate. But we have been met with horror propaganda and the choice between well-being and tax havens. Yes, the word ‘welfare’ has now been used by several red-green representatives — including community, security, political will and power. And Schjøtt-Pedersen talked about community, Norwegian welfare state and great success. Yes, one should almost think that there were no problems in this country. When the previous speeches stand here and talk about the amazing cod prices and that the cod is doing so well in this country, I wonder if this red-green politician has been out there and seen how the children in child protection are doing. We're privileged. We live in the richest country in the world. But then it must be our duty that elected representatives also be allowed to point out the weaknesses that are actually out in this country today. Torgeir Micaelsen talked about that we should care and show care. Yeah, let's do that. In fact, there are many children out there who do not receive the care they are entitled to – and who have been told by a unanimous majority in the UK that they have a right to do so. We're talking about calling for reforms. The only Lighthouse, which is the Minister for Gender and Family Affairs, has started this year, must have been the Women's Panel. We now have a great opportunity to do something about child protection. The Progress Party is looking forward to seeing if the Lighthouse has been put through in the budget tomorrow, in view of doing something there. There's not everything just rose red, and the majority government knows it's not. So the Bjørnface talked about equality and women in kindergarten. Yes, there are many women who run kindergartens, and they are entrepreneurs in private kindergartens. But this government is only destroying for them now, with the new regulations that are hitting the private kindergartens. The Progress Party is concerned about the future of kindergartens when State Council Halvorsen today will not answer the question of whether she intends to follow up on this that more kindergartens around the country are now going to be weakened due to child care funding being included in the framework. Tomorrow, the state budget will come, and I hope that the opposition's vicious whiskers will be able to get through to the government. It remains to be seen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3689	What are we going to survive after oil and how to finance and develop the welfare state in the future? There are two key debates going on here today, and also in the media, and such as the Workers' Party, among others. has taken the initiative. These two debates are closely linked, because we have to create before we can share. For the movement of workers, this is the very basis of policy, together with its value based on the values of solidarity, justice, equal opportunities and freedom. The oil industry has provided our country with huge revenues since the first oil revenues entered the state budget early in the 1970s – revenues that have enabled us to expand our welfare society and have contributed to the fact that Norway is today one of the world's best countries to live in. At the same time, it is important to be clear that if we were to sit down and live off the oil revenues alone, we would manage in about. one year. It's work – people's contribution to the creation of value, and not least that women took work away from home, which today is a matter of course – that we live through here in the country. We shall also bet on that in the future. Therefore, the competence, knowledge and skills of the Nordics have been acquired through oil and gas activities, an important contribution to human capital in Norway and to the value creation even after the oil age. It is therefore essential that the economic policy pursued by the government contributes to the foreseeable framework conditions for competitive industry and business. For this reason, the fundamental importance of the effort that has been made, which is to be made in the future, in terms of primary and tertiary education, research, adult training and labour market measures, and to protect the rights of workers in order to provide a good basis for getting a job and contributing to the creation of value added. For this reason, the key focus is on innovation and support for existing businesses. There are 700 new start-ups in the first six months of the year compared to the first six months of last year. There are probably many reasons behind these figures, but they also show that government policies work. Norwegian business has become competitive through the development of strong business and good jobs by private and government interaction with employees and organisations. Norway has become one of the world’s best countries to live in through this interaction and through the Nordic model, which Sweden and Denmark have unfortunately left with the bourgeois governments. The basis for strengthening and improving the welfare state is that the community has resources to pay for it in the future as well. The oil fund doesn't last forever and doesn't last long if we're going to live off it. Therefore, facilitating continued value creation is fundamental. What is the answer to these challenges from the right is also very unclear after today’s debate. Right-wing representatives have largely tried to reduce the emphasis of the Workers' Party and the media on the Norwegian model being a success and a model for other countries in the wake of the financial crisis. In reality, the Right now wants to take ownership of the model and the development of our welfare state. I'm eagerly waiting for the deepening of what this implies by right-hand policies. For the time being, they are content to elaborate on the criticism of our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3706	The debate of the throne is an opportunity to discuss important matters for the session we are now in the process of. A goal of the period should be to strengthen the rights of children and to ensure that even more children grow up with a safe environment and in good homes. An important area for achieving this objective is the protection of children, which was also mentioned in the census. I want to divide the main challenges of child protection into two parts. The first one I'd like to call a budget crisis. We see that more and more people need help, and there are several serious issues. At the same time, we have failed to adjust the number of employees and the number of measures in line with the number of cases we see. In order to slow down the large growth and reduce the pressure on child protection, we need to get in earlier, and we need to put more into the term ‘prevention’. There may be everything from environmental therapists in school, better training of nursery workers and teachers, reinforced health centres and enhanced family protection. The second challenge, which is perhaps the biggest one precisely because we cannot afford it, is about the very organisation of child protection. We need to look at the division of tasks and responsibilities we have today. My starting point is that we need to strengthen municipal child protection, and we need to have more knowledge and more tools in the first line. Another important area for children and growing-up conditions is family policy. The parental leave scheme is much discussed in Stortinget. The central party's starting point is that we're going to have a system that gives the family opportunities and freedom of choice, while at the same time getting a system that helps both mother and father take on the responsibility of having children. I also hope that we will have a debate about the family and the role of the family in today's society. The family must be brought into all policy areas and be respected more than at present as one of society's pillars. We have to take the consequence that Norway is among the world's most equal countries, where we have succeeded in high levels of female participation, while still having many children. Then there is a need for a modern family policy adapted to all families, and a policy adapted to today's society. We see that children spend a greater part of the day at school, they start earlier in kindergarten, and their parents experience that they live in a bad time. When mother and father are to be in charge of the home while caring for their children, there will be little time to be a family. But all parents are not able to take care of their children either. In some cases, parents commit violence against their own children, and their children are subjected to serious care failures. Child protection exists for the sake of children, and then the consideration of children must outweigh the consideration of parents. Giving protection and care to the children is, however, our most important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3723	In today's debate, both from the point of view and from the point of view of the opposition have been very positive about our welfare system. They say we're privileged. At the same time, it is claimed that the government lacks visions, that it brings out old honors instead of setting out a new course. In my opinion, this is to take a little lightly on some facts that build up under the society that makes most people feel good in this country. When the opposition with a light hand, almost in a insert, only finds that unemployment is low and employment is high in Norway, it is alarming, for this is the most important job we can do. The best way to show this is to take a little look at what is real in most other European countries. There's just the high unemployment that's the challenge. There is the main focus on how to reduce unemployment and at the same time on how to manage a broken economy. We experience when we are on committee trips that one must cut into welfare schemes, affecting large sections of the population. Yes, then it creates a worry that is worrying – also for us – and we have not yet seen the end of this turmoil. With us, we have focused on having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and we have succeeded in our policy. In addition, we can focus on other important objectives in order to develop and improve the Norwegian welfare society – to mention something, it is enough to say the baby-sitting promise and to reach the promise of care. There is much that can be better in Norway by renewing and improving the welfare state. That's quite simply why I'm involved in politics. When the opposition is going to point out its main policy line, usually in the light of renewal, I don't see the great renewal. There comes research and education, of course, focusing on results from the first day, or getting the ‘competitive instinct’ into school, as the representative Aspaker said, and, of course, tax laws. Where's the innovation? I've heard the same thing every year. In research and education, a lot has happened in recent years. There's little doubt about it, and it's going to happen more. When it comes to renewal, the Right says that the answer is not more money – of course not when it comes to tax relief – but that the answer is to meet the challenges in a new way. One way to which reference is made is to tender. Where is the renewal of the Right Policy in this respect? I have heard the same thing every year, namely that the tasks can be moved from the public to the private tenderers. Instead of saying to the public servant that the job they do can be done better and cheaper by others, I'd rather brag the uninhibited by the job that municipal employees do, and arouse them to go on with it, because they're one of the most important pieces in our welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3738	The Stoltenberg government is in its ace when it says that never before has any government spent so much money on health, transportation, police, etc. We live in an oil smeared country, led by Jens Stoltenberg, who refuses to take important conversion measures that can help create economic growth and secure well-being, even when oil money one day ends. It is a serious signal when we receive figures that show that all Nordic countries — without oil money — are growing higher than Norway. At the same time, we hear here daily about increasingly poor results in schools, health, police and child protection. The right has repeatedly called for the organisation of more knowledge in school and more offensive policies for research and innovation. At the same time, we have reminded the government of the importance of giving small and medium-sized enterprises room for increased value creation that can provide more forward-looking jobs. The answer to increasing value creation and safeguarding the welfare of the future is not to increase taxes and to incite more of taxpayers' money into the public sector. For the Right, the answer is to renew policy by finding new, smarter solutions to strengthen both public and private services. Increased value creation provides increased tax revenue and enhanced well-being. I am pleased that, in reply to my question concerning the establishment of Ironman on the Tjeldbergodden, the Council of State proposed a CO2 emission permit in line with other activities in the European Union, and that in the letter of reply he refers to the fact that ‘Norwegian authorities are now negotiating with the European Commission on adaptations’. This is very gratifying for the Aure municipality, as it means the creation of 100 new jobs, to the joy of the whole community. I hope that with this, we also have the hope that the government will be able to approach the EU's conditions for the construction of the Industrial Power Møres gas power plant in Elnesvågen, that it can be established under the same conditions as the State power in the EU countries of the United Kingdom and Germany. I now expect more fair and equal terms in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3757	Good transport opportunities are important for the whole of Norway. Upgrading infrastructure makes everyday life easier for people, it will improve the environment, society will be more inclusive, and it will strengthen the competitiveness of business. Road is part of this picture, and there is currently considerable construction activity on Norwegian roads. Despite a modest population, Norway has a widespread settlement. Mountain, fjords and valleys place considerable demands on investment and maintenance in the transport sector. In comparison, Sweden has a population of twice as large as in return, much more concentrated in those parts of the country where nature provides room for relatively low development costs. Therefore, it is wrong, as many people do, to compare Norwegian and Swedish road standards. Our measure is Norway, and our government has the ambition to pursue an ambitious district policy, including in the area of transport. Then we have challenges in terms of cost developments, especially on road maintenance. We must have a strong focus on this. We need to have durable calculations and better cost control. We now hear that the functional contracts have increased on average by 80 pst. and that the maintenance has become worse in recent years. Then you can ask yourself whether the competitive outsourcing of operations and maintenance is the best way to organise this work, and whether it gives us better cost control. In any case, there is great reason to follow this development closely. I also believe that the opposition had stood by admitting that cost developments are a common challenge. We are sensitive to good suggestions on how to solve this, as long as it does not involve inefficient private solutions in which the state is to borrow money, or social dumping. Social dumping remains a problem, although many good measures have been taken by the government to combat it — and this has been done against the opposition’s votes. It affects companies that act seriously and follow the rules. When they lose contracts to unprofessional, the good jobs can become unsafe and the pay and employment of employees are under pressure. So these are the unprofessional companies that get a competitive advantage. Social dumping also has an impact on the fight against undeclared work, tax evasion and economic crime. But the fight against social dumping is the only thing left for the red-greens. The Norwegian model of society is inter alia: built on a safe and equal working life, and it has given us a high degree of social equality. Therefore, this is also an important reason for taking care of this good model into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3772	District policy is my heart. We are few people and we live in this country. Centralisation forces in society are incredibly strong — and it is not easy to reverse such strong trends. But without living districts, Norway will become a poorer society. Traffic is one of the most important means we have of creating development across the country. That is why I am pleased with the transport promise that this government has made through NTP 2010–2019, and I want to raise this commitment further in the next NTP period. We have to prepare for some time after the oil. I therefore believe it is necessary to invest heavily in infrastructure in the years to come in order to make use of the natural resources we have. This could be bioenergy and the exploitation of forest resources, recreational, nature and open-air experiences related to the mountains and our protected areas, or it could be a matter of agriculture or other resources and opportunities available. Road, rail, aircraft, ferries and collective connections are necessary to link parts of the country and create development. As a representative from Hedmark, I would particularly like to raise the issue. 3 through the Baltic Valley as one of the country’s main modes of transport. This route connects north and south in Norway, and is particularly important for business both in northern and central Norway. Trailer loads with salmon and other goods are sent south to the east and further to Europe via rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox For the transport industry and other business sectors, this transport corridor is the most profitable both for business and for the environment due to shorter driving distances and less height differences than the alternatives. In addition, it is a very important trajectory for all those living up in the Baltic and the mountainous regions. It is incredibly important for this part of the country, which is one of the longest-travel regions in time for the central eastern region. But Rv. 3 is distinguished by a large proportion of heavy-duty vehicles, and the frequency of accidents is twice that of comparable distances, so action is necessary. It has now been tried a my way of repairing this road – a so-called width extension – which provides many more kilometres of trunk for the money invested than is usual. The way it works here can be transferred to other road sections in the country. My main message is that transport and investment in infrastructure are essential for economic development, value creation and growth across the country. I still want a strong bet on this in the next NTP period. For business, it is important that we invest in the transport corridors connecting parts of the country, and in particular I will invest in Rv. 3 as the most important industrial corridor between north and south in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3795	Today, there has been a lot of talk from the opposition that Norway needs a new course and new solutions. Privatisation and outsourcing are what should save the welfare state. But if we had done what the opposition wanted, there would soon be no welfare state left to save. For the Workers' Party, a strong state of public welfare is important for a reason, and a reason alone – everyone should have equal opportunities. Unfortunately, today, despite the fact that we have a strong welfare state, there are some outsiders. Then it is extremely important that we not only say away from ourselves and push it over to private people, but that we take control and strengthen the services that can just prevent anyone from being marginalised. In the summer, Southern media have been filled with descriptions of young boys who commit many criminal acts. It's gone so far that no one knows what to do with them. Private and public institutions have given up, and this is nothing new. Then it's important to ask: what makes young boys who live in cities, who don't master the school, who have low social status, more often commit criminal acts than others in society? I have a clear answer to that: the road to a criminal track will be both shorter and more visible if you are already outside. The East-Agder Workers' Party has long focused on how we can prevent similar cases in the future. We organised dialogue meetings with child protection, police and SLT coordinators to discuss solutions. The answer was clear – more resources for municipal child protection. Children’s protection in their homes has a requirement to do preventive work. Nevertheless, child protection is the last solution when things have gone too far. Economic pressure means that prevention is not a priority. That way, we keep getting late, and we don't get to catch up with the singles until it's too late. I cannot be told enough how important it is that child protection is also involved in prevention. Youth clubs, sports and cultural activities can only do so much. Sometimes children and young people need more competence and problem solving than they do in these arenas. The working party is convinced that it is only in common that we can help those who fall outside. We are the ones in this Chamber who are responsible. Then it is important that we control and strengthen rather than push away and weaken. In the throne, a bet was announced on municipal child protection. The working party has opened the door. Then it's up to us jointly to let those who are outside, into.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3810	The municipalities of Norway are responsible for some of the most important welfare services. It's in the municipality we live in, and it's their employees who take care of our kids in kindergarten while we're at work. It's at the municipal elementary school they're all, most of the kids are learning to read, write and calculate, and it's at the municipal health service with the decision we're making when we're sick. In particular, the employees of the nursing homes and in the home service will take care of us if we become too poor and no longer completely manage on our own. There is now a debate about the municipal structure in the municipalities and about the lunch tables in the workplace. But when I read about the representative Gjermund Hageseter from the Progress Party who proclaims in today's business that the magic number of municipalities is 99 here in the country, it is important to stress that for the Workers' Party, functional and sustainable municipalities for the future are the goal. When the Right talks about improving the efficiency of municipalities to finance tax cuts for the richest ones who already have the most, it is more important for the Workers' Party to ensure equivalent and even better welfare services for the inhabitants. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure functional and sustainable municipalities, not because we have to save money, but because both the Stortinget and the local population are increasingly demanding what municipalities should do – in child protection, in school, in kindergartens, in land planning, preparedness and much more. In short, the Workers' Party will have functional and sustainable municipalities because we need to strengthen, renew and improve the welfare offer. It is worrying that we get reports that seem to show a correlation between the size of municipalities and the quality of the service they provide to their citizens. To give an example, a report from the Statistical Centre this year shows that the probability of child-restraint children completing secondary school within the age of 23 is increasing by the number of residents in the municipality. Although many of the small municipalities do the job well, we also see that the trade unions often become too small and too vulnerable. Today's municipal map is essentially drawn almost 50 years ago. Our challenge will be how we encourage municipalities to take up the challenge and set themselves down and draw up new municipal boundaries. For volunteers, there are always some advantages in these kinds of processes. We don't get to the seventh and last is what we're sitting in this room, which is responsible for the proper organisation of the municipal sector in relation to the tasks that exist. It's not important how many municipalities we have. It's not important which municipalities we have. The driving force is not to take out the efficiency of tax cuts for a few. The important thing must be that everyone has good municipal welfare services regardless of where they live, and that we can continue to strengthen and improve the welfare provision that municipalities are to provide to the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3821	I wonder from time to time whether we in this Chamber have really lost grip on what politics really is, and that a too often mixes politics with rhetoric and symbolism. The last time I thought about this, was during the Prime Minister's speech today, where he, with patos as Prime Minister, tells us that important parts of our welfare will disappear if the voters let go of the Advance Party in the government quarter. The goal, of course, is to create a kind of hate symbol that can be easily shot at all, not because what the Prime Minister says is true, but because it sounds politely rhetorical, and it builds around the government symbols on what well-being is and isn't. ‘I believe in the Norwegian model’, said the Prime Minister with a feeling that we have when we proclaim the creed. I also believe in the Norwegian model, and there is nothing in the policy of the Progress Party that will be like detonable bombs under the Norwegian model or the welfare state's feet, rather the opposite. But in the so-called Norwegian model, things have evolved over time, and in our opinion, the Norwegian model is still moving – fortunately. While the Prime Minister almost shows that we have now reached the height of the potential of the welfare state, the Progress Party believes that there are still enormous opportunities for improvement and development. It is not optimal in a welfare state for health cows to grow, nor for municipalities to refuse to build the number of health homes they think they need. It is not optimal in a welfare state that the quality of school does not guarantee us space in the upper half of the OECD barometer once. It is not optimal in a welfare state that rural competitiveness is weakened by poor infrastructure or because it costs so much more to own businesses in Norway than in Europe. It is not optimal in a welfare state that should also be a state governed by law, that police, courts and prison services report major shortcomings in their ability to do their job — not to forget the untapped potential of prevention. The Progress Party has a different policy from the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party in these areas, and the aim of that policy is to improve the welfare state. The goal is to further develop the Norwegian model, not to destroy it. The Trontale reveals that the ambitions are not in place with today's government. In fact, it is so bad that when His Majesty read the throne speech on behalf of the government on Saturday, I thought he had got the wrong manuscript, because he said about the exact same thing as last year. That is why there is one important job that needs to be done in the next three years. We must, on the non-social side, be able to establish a clear government alternative to the red-green. They get to be with those who want to, but the alternative has to be made clear – unless we risk that the 2013 census is exactly the same as the one we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3830	The government has launched a power take-off against apostasy. It has focused on early efforts, and in the census it was announced that there will be a separate survey of the secondary school. The last thing I actually think is an ever-small victory for the Center Party, because we've been talking about high school for years. I'm convinced that the key to increasing secondary school completion is in high school. We need to strengthen the environment for learning and make training more varied and relevant for students. Theory and practice have been repeated in several of the interventions here today, and the best possible organisation of school life is crucial to solving future challenges. The answers of the Centre Party are as follows: The School shall provide challenges and provide mastery for both practical and theoretically strong students. Education shall be varied and play on layers of local business and society around it. And most importantly, all subjects should have insights into both theory and practice. It adds up to the curriculum, but we talk too much about some subjects being theoretical and other subjects being practical. That's the balance between theory and practice that's interesting, and here we still have a job to do. At the same time, it is important to provide some students with a more practical alternative, and therefore the labour market experiment is a cautious start to what, hopefully, will lead to a more practical timetable for those students who want to do so. We know that a more varied day of school costs. It costs time, and it costs a year's work, but it doesn't necessarily require that we have up-to-date equipment in Norwegian schools. This is why an important job in the future is to enable Norwegian municipalities and counties to purchase equipment that can make teaching more exciting for students. It doesn't agree with chalk to motivate for learning. So for high school: the introduction of the Knowledge promise has been a medium-to-good reform, and in one area there is reason to look at the whole reform with new eyes, namely the taste test focus introduced in the professional field. Many professions were merged, and students were to get a glimpse of many different subjects and techniques in a short time. It's certainly not wise to serve tapas to the students when society and business demand people who have eaten the main course. As a society, we need to take the advice that professional education programs provide room for going deep. That's why we in the Center Party are positive that we split up some of the professional subjects again to just give a professionally good enough offer to the individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3841	‘By and land hand in hand’ — the old slogan contains a lot of truth. Workplaces, business development and value creation across the country are all aspects of the same issue. When, earlier in our history, the Central Statistical Bureau published figures that said that the value creation was larger in central areas than in districts, the big discussion took place, especially in the districts. Regardless of what you think about the matter, in the districts the raw materials that are the basis for much of the value creation are available. Therefore, it is important for business development, for jobs and value creation – not only in the districts but throughout the country – that people also live and work in the districts. Therefore, it is also important for the people living in Oslo that there is a focus on housing, entrepreneurship and nutrition development in Grong, Namsos, Røyrvik and Overhalla. As part of my preparations for today's debate, I asked for recordings via social media – and I received recordings. There were many of them, and they were relatively unambiguous. More emphasis was placed on commodity production and further processing. Several stressed that entrepreneurship, business development and housing are closely linked. Then I have to admit that most of the recordings were about transportation. It is a matter of having good transport solutions for those living in the districts, but it is also an important prerequisite for the creation of value throughout the country. Raw materials, finished products and people must be transported to markets and customers. That's why the recordings have gone on the railways, the railways, the railways. They've gone on better roads, better logistics, accommodation service, public transport. They have even gone on a direct route with flights from Namsos to Oslo. This is why the effort in the national transport plan is good, and it is good with increased emphasis on maintenance and road safety. The government and the red-green parties deliver concrete results according to the national transport plan, while the Right and Christian People's Party are concerned with hiding that they won't spend much more money than we do. They hide it in discussions about organisation and about creative financing solutions. When Øyvind Halleraker earlier in this debate used the example of the outsourcing of operation and maintenance in the road sector and with the separation of Mesta as a good example of the successful policy of the right, it is the very opposite that is the result and the reality. The market thinking of the right has led to an increase of up to 80 pst in the cost of operation and maintenance in the road sector. So briefly summarised: ‘By hand and by hand’ is important for jobs, for value creation and well-being. Strengthen community and solidarity and free us from right-hand market thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3857	The socialist agricultural policy system has led to a dramatic decline in Norwegian agriculture by halving the number of producers in 20 years, poor income trends in industry, and as many as 34 000 farms today are empty. Agriculture policy deprives food producers of most of their freedom to do business and the content of their ownership, and makes development opportunities scarce. Recruitment to an industry that is so regulated by a comprehensive bureaucracy is, of course, difficult. In order to reverse this persistently negative trend in agriculture, a fundamental change is necessary to make the farmer more control over his own production and to reduce the influence of politicians and bureaucrats. Less agricultural rules and regulations would mean more development and revenue opportunities than the current regulatory framework conditions for business transfers. It will eventually become a freer world trade also for food. It is important that we now take the time to ensure that Norwegian agriculture has the framework conditions adapted to a new trading system. Free trade also in agricultural products will result in increased competition in the Norwegian food market, which will also benefit consumers. It will also involve export opportunities and new market and income opportunities for Norwegian food producers. While the government is most concerned about sticking to an old-fashioned regulatory policy that does not work, the Progress Party believes that we need to seize the opportunity that free trade provides for agriculture. Almost weekly we read about fraud in the aid schemes, such as farmers. gets about 3 billion. kr in area grants. Most people have said too much area. It shows aerial photography that has been going on since 2003. It's a paradox that it's not the Ministry of Agriculture of Breck that discovered this, but it's the National Audit Office that has to go in to get what's wrong. During the past few weeks we have also been able to read the doctoral thesis on Norwegian agriculture by Ivar Gaasland. He believes that food security and the cultural landscape can be maintained with a cut of 12 billion. kr. The cut he proposes is NOK 2,500 per year. is based in Norway. It's about as much as the government spends on running police, law enforcement and justice in Norway. Today’s agricultural aid is designed to produce more than consumers need, for example: milk. Of the surplus milk, cheese and butter are made and exported abroad at a lower price than the price of the products in Norway. In this way, Norwegian taxpayers and dairy drinkers, often families with young children, contribute to sponsoring the consumption of cheap Jarlsberg cheese by foreigners. This is a very expensive way to keep up the activity in agriculture. We get a transfer of funds from Norwegian citizens to foreign cheese specialists who cost each family $800 per. year, or Norwegian taxpayers 1 billion. Norwegian kroner, which actually equals 3,500 sick homes. More and more researchers have recently agreed with the Agriculture Policy of the Progress Party. It is now time for a government shift — to save Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3876	A government exposed to vision seems to be the opposition's mantra in this debate. That's exactly what I heard in the speeches of last year's debate on the throne. It's tempting to say that we have an opposition exposed to ingenuity. If the right is really concerned with creating values, do they not agree that our ambition to have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and to have an increase in value creation across the country is an important ambition? If the opposition is truly concerned with good welfare, do they not share our ambition to defend and further develop one of the world's best welfare societies? If the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left are really concerned about the climate, do they not share our ambition that Norway will lead in the global climate struggle? To contribute to more value creation, we need good communications. A road or a track is never a goal in itself, but a means of bringing people and goods from one place to another, to connect people and places closer together, to create values. We are now ten months inside the national transport plan, which the opposition thought was too ambitious when it was presented. Yes, we have major objectives in our transport policy, and we intend to follow them up. In the summer edition of the railway's own magazine, we can read about employees who say: finally, we can plan, finally we can do something. Rail crew with 30 years of seagoing service say they have never experienced the case for pressure on maintenance and upgrading. It's high time. But it shows that it's not just the government's boast, but the realities behind a historic investment on the railway, a bet we'll continue in the years that come. Right-wing calls for reforms and reorganisations in the transport sector. It seems like whatever the question is, the answer is reorganization. With the reorganisation of the railway that Right was in the last place they put in position, fresh in memory, there are few things that make my warning lights flash more than when they talk reorganization. The railway works are still struggling with the aftereffects after the Right participated in providing the competent labour force with the final package and clapping on the shoulder, a competence that has taken time to get back. That is why I am very sceptical when the Right is talking about reorganization in the transport sector. Norway needs to take a leading role in international climate work, because we have opportunities to do so. We can contribute to emission reductions that are much larger than our own emissions would have expected. But to have credibility in that work, we have to go ahead as a good example. That is why the notified climate message is so important. We have to cut at home too, not because it represents so much of the global emissions, but because it gives credibility. It is just a red-green government that can forcefully present an ambitious, committed and absolutely necessary climate announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3893	The government, through the Soria Moria Declaration and the Thronetal, shows that it is engaged in the climate struggle. However, it is difficult to understand the government's energy and environmental policies, most often because of major internal disagreements. In many ways, government policy seems ambiguous and often contradictory in its decisions. I would like to refer to a few examples from the municipality of Farsund to support this. Over the past two to three decades, the municipality has more and more been recorded by the Stone Age man’s activities. As a result, construction measures within the municipality border have been severely limited. In addition, Farsund is a coastal municipality, and construction in the coastal zone is therefore also limited. A nationwide energy company applied for some time back to build 32 large wind turbines at the highest points in the municipality. Such expansion means up to 30 km of new wide road up to the tops of the windmills. Even if the mills can be removed in the long term, the turf grips will be permanent. The concession was granted despite too many protests. The County Environmental Protection Department appealed the decision together with many others. The Ministry of the Environment rejected the complaints and maintained the concession. More or less in parallel with the complaint about wind turbines, a local company applied for a building permit for a marina with many boat sites and 23 boathouses in a suitable area. Without the difference in altitude between the river and the spring, the boathouse is part of the culture of the boat in the South. The boathouses had to be removed from the plan, including: because they could be seen from the highway or the sea. The decisions in these two planning dossiers show the very large and unbalanced discrimination that has been committed here in two environmental matters in the same municipality. It is also very difficult for the citizens of Farsund to understand the department's decisions here. The application for the construction of boathouses has little or no consequences for the environment or the beach zone, which in the area is totally unfeasible. Nevertheless, the application is rejected. The construction of infrastructure in the form of roads and the construction of 32 wind turbines, which are twice as high as the sampling towers in Hardanger, at some of the highest mountain peaks in the municipalities of Farsund have some very significant environmental consequences. Despite these interventions, concession has finally been granted by the Ministry of the Environment. Respect for government's environmental policy among the citizens of Farsund is very low.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3913	My first chronology debate has been interesting to follow, a debate that has made important political divides visible. The opposition has rightly repeatedly called for the government's large project. There's a certain irony about that announcement when you see how the opposition cracks in all directions. The only opposition seems to agree, is to paint a country that is repeatedly named the world's best country to live in. The progress party, with Christian Tybring-Gjedde at the head, really takes cake in terms of black paint in integration policy. Tybring-Gjedde is self-appointed defender of Norwegian culture and has started a crusade against a multicultural society without discovering that there we have actually lived for quite a long time. One of our major projects is to create a more inclusive Norway. It's about giving individuals more opportunities, and it's about becoming a richer and better country of diversity. The multicultural society offers us opportunities if we choose to exploit it and pursue an active policy of integration. I find it sad when representatives of the Progress Party say that people with a multicultural background are tearing Norwegian society into pieces. But the most tragic thing is that, with the Progress Party, we will have poorer integration and more segregation. We know that the most important thing for integration is that people learn Norwegian. It's quite obvious that language is one of the keys to integration. But when the Progress Party demands everyone to learn Norwegian, at the same time they cut 407 million. NOK in Norwegian training. It is a good example of empty rhetoric and no policy. It's not like we can demand that people who come to Norway go straight to Oslo City, buy a dictionary and study themselves in Norwegian. We have to make demands – I fully agree – but we also have to put things right. We need to focus more on what we know works, namely good Norwegian and social training. We know that work is essential for inclusion and social cohesion. One of the challenges facing many with a multicultural background is discrimination, prejudice that keeps people out of work. This is not the solution to put down the gender equality and discrimination ombudsman, which is an important tool in the fight against discrimination. We know that free core time in kindergarten is working. We know that cash support is not working. Despite this, the Progress Party chooses cash support, which rewards minority women who stay at home and out of work. Where the Red-Green government wants more of what works, the Advance Party will have more of what doesn't work. The representative Tybring-Gjedde said earlier today that we have huge challenges. I'm going to say that we have enormous possibilities. A good integration policy depends on seeing both the challenges and the opportunities. Those who look blindly at the problems, and who neither do nor want to see anything positive, will never have a good integration policy. After the debate today, it is also obvious that the Progress Party does not even have credible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3939	For an alternate who is a local politician on a daily basis, it is strange to listen to the government's estimation of reality. Out in Municipality-Norway, where the services are produced, reality is quite different. Local politicians are tearing themselves in the hair because they know that the year’s budgetary process will once again result in cuts in services that have already been cut. The local politicians out there are desperately hoping for a hint of room for action and to get back some of the municipal autonomy that the Prime Minister praised earlier today. Unfortunately, it does not seem to be coming, because in recent years new tasks, new laws, new regulations, new forms and new reports have eaten up the space for action. A star example is a new design and building law. The speech of the figures is clear: almost all municipalities cut their services either in terms of quality reduction or in terms of quantity reduction. If you make a calculation of income against new tasks, you adjust for increased wages, for increased prices and for increased pensions, and then you get red numbers. You get a minus, you get a deficit -- red numbers that lead to a reduction in the number of sick homes, even if the need for more people is screaming, a minus that leads to a maximum of students per teacher and missing temporary workers, a deficit that leads to a child protection without enough capacity in the first line. All these services are to a certain extent statutory and they are in the «frame» economic bag item, like a multitude of other tasks that the government does not finance. This could be resolved by direct financing of these services, as proposed by the Progress Party. My conclusion has long been that the government does not give priority to the tasks in the frame bag, for example. care for the elderly. After a short bet, a service is put into this bag post, which unfortunately seems to be happening to the kindergartens. The government's policy is, in practice, legal and regulatory red figures that lead to the confusion of municipal autonomy, which the Prime Minister praised. At present, the government has managed to reduce the municipal autonomy of the choice between plague and cholera — the choice between hospitalisation and school leaving.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3950	It's tempting for the last post to ask the Progress Party if they think it's going to be more or less municipal services if we're going to give tax relief, as they suggest, up to 70 million. kr. From today's pulpit, we've heard about both what might be better in this country, and what's good, and that's how it should be. Of course, we need an opposition that is active and that contributes to the debate. But no matter what we say and how we put it forward, we can't get away from Norway's membership of the world's best country to live in. It's not because of the oil revenues alone, but because of how we distribute the goods in our country. The Norwegian welfare model is unique and contributes to smaller differences. It's built on that everyone is equally valuable and should have the same possibilities. But in order to do that, we all have to contribute according to our ability, including those who earn the most. Maybe it's in health we see that the welfare model is good for everyone; whether you're rich or poor, you're treated in the same hospital, and you get the same healthcare. A short time ago, we were visiting the World Health Organisation. Norway received many good words both for our health services and for our international contribution. It was positive and motivating to hear. There were praises both to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister for their efforts, not least for the vaccination programme. At the same time, they reminded us that we, as such a rich country, might be able to contribute further. That we're one of the world's best countries to live in doesn't mean that we don't have challenges, and one of them is caregiving. In Norway, we have a drug care agency that has been run by volunteers, who have done a fantastic job, and that's great. But it does not relieve the public of our responsibilities. That's why I like everything that's happened in the field in the last few years, like, among other things. large grants to municipalities, such as: should contribute to strengthening the provision of community services to those with drug problems through low-threshold healthcare and housing follow-up services. Before the summer, the Stoltenberg Committee came with its report. It's now at the hearing, and I hope we get a lot of recordings. I hope that both the recordings and not least the debate will cover more than or against heroin-assisted rehabilitation. Although it's important, it's just one of 22 proposals. After a visit to Switzerland, we have heard about and seen extensive use of both medically assisted rehabilitation and heroin-assisted rehabilitation. But the clearest message they had for us was that if we were to succeed in the drugs policy, we had to eliminate the waiting time, put home, work and other health services in place. Methadone and heroin are just one of many measures that need to be taken. It shows that it is important that the debate on drug use over and above the fall has a wider perspective than on or against heroin. We need a big investment in the drug field, and we can only now if we're all involved and contributing to the community. We can't afford to get out of the challenges of drugs, but we have to work with users, teams and organisations to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3965	Prime Minister Stoltenberg was in his post a tour of the Progress Party and the market, and the Prime Minister is blaming it as if the market is something repugnant and worthless. The most approachable question will then be: What is it that creates the resources that give us an economic foundation and secures the welfare society that we are all concerned with developing further? Is there a more and more politically governed and dominated system, called it socialist, or is it the market with its dynamics? And what system is it that has proved to be resilient and valuable over time? Is there at all a politically governed society where the market is not the fundamental one that has survived? I can only think of one thing at a time, and it's North Korea. We all know how people feel there. When the Socialist Left Party in post-posts takes time to tell about the position of the past to its political competitors, it is very tempting to start ripping up all the totalitarian regimes and societies they have celebrated only a few years ago. I should leave this round, but conclude that SV has very little to be proud of in that context. But in common with all these societies, the plan economy was preferred to the market. But what was the success factor behind a political desire for full child care coverage other than the market, the market of skilled entrepreneurs and kindergarten drivers who in quality often outnumber public opinion? So when the Prime Minister says that he is opposed to widespread use of supply, a lot of people think it's understandable, as we all too often experience it. The state's ability to put in place an offer document, especially for the transport sector, is so inadequate that it is directly embarrassing, and it has been paid out million in compensation to the operators, such as the wear and tear of inadequate supply documents that primarily affect road users, when old and worn-out equipment is approved by contracting authorities, the State Road Service. There are many other examples as well. In More and Romesdal there are now a number of new large ferries to travel on ferry routes that still have old ferries and car parking places that are useless for these ferries. This means that a ferry section has been offered without any height, so that it needs to be built to fit the ferry bays and parking spaces to fit these traffic machines. To solve this problem, 700 million are missing. kr. If this is what the Prime Minister thinks with opposition to the widespread use of supply, then we both share this view, but here I feel that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party are the leaders of the Prime Minister's conclusion. But it is also a fact that this government has used supply and competition more than any other government, so life and learning do not hang together. We have seen several examples of this summer and the fall – we see that the government party has the juxtaposition of means used for election campaigns. It is undemocratic, it is immoral, and it is unethical.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3974	The debate on the throne is to a large extent the opposition's ability to put government policy under the spotlight. The description we've heard here today, and as we've almost heard over the last year, is a description of an insane, shaken nation where everything is turned upside down. I've heard one misery description after another, descriptions of a society on the edge of the plunge, while the country in reality year after year is drawn to the world's best country to live in. One can really wonder if it's the position or the opposition that's in conflict with reality. In a three-minute post, I can't take away everything we've done, but I want to take care of the field of justice. It is a matter of concern to all of us. It's about security, and it's about having an up and down-and-down police that fakes those who commit serious crimes. We've got more policemen, not fewer, as claimed in the debate. The police have received substantial increases in appropriations, nor can they deny it. The head of the Joint Police Association, Arne Johannessen, said in several interviews that Storberget provided more criminal policy than any other justice ministers had ever provided. He also said that it was «the best result for the police in history». It's also about having an effective, independent and fair justice system. We've had that for a long time. It is a fact that the Norwegian courts are the most effective in Europe. The Justice Committee has just returned from a committee mission to Romania, where we, among others, visited one of the best prisons in the country. The Norwegian Food Safety Authority, which is responsible for animal health in this country, would have concerns with the prison cells as shelters for animals. This applies in particular to space and area requirements. The environment and the internal environment in prison did not inspire rehabilitation and to become a good citizen, on the contrary. In this prison, there was also a large element of young offenders. I'm glad we don't have that kind of relationship in our prisons. I would like to remind the opposition that under today's government, the growth in the judicial budget has been record high, much greater than under the government of Bondevik. I also dare to remind and ask the opposition politicians to read the former Minister of Justice Dørum's book 'Ombudsman at work', where he refers to the inner life of that government. ‘Right – with the Minister of Finance, the majority of the government and a former head of the Justice Committee around the table, chose creative performance suggestions rather than giving fresh money to strengthen law and order.’ There was a tax check on justice policy. It's not like that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e3996	It was something special to listen to a positionist from the Workers' Party who looked at the degrees falling on the cash support. Well, I want to remind you that they're in power. You are only removing it if they are against it. Even if you want to look forward, you should also look back. A year ago, the government also had plans in different areas. But are these followed up? Also then had a goal of including everyone in the working life, as was said in the speech of the throne on Saturday: ‘The aim of the government is to give all people throughout the country the opportunity to develop their abilities and to live good and meaningful lives.’ Those are nice words, but are they trustworthy? Still, almost 80,000 people with disabilities are out of work. And the number hasn't gone down very much even if one actually in public over a low shoe, without the direct inclusion of this group. I had actually expected that public Norway stood out as a good example and not least had a strategy to be able to assign some of these to the public company. But no, there's a little bit of movement here. Before this area actually sees that there are many of the private people who see what resources and qualities live with the disabled person, in line with the healthier. Often it's just going to be willing and a little organized in collaboration with the added and possibly the resource center, and vips has a set that's often very proud of their work and is a good and competent employee. As a Westerner and as a elected representative from Hordaland, it is important for me to follow along in matters relating to my home country. The fact that the government must have a 'Hard Repentance' in relation to the mast case is little doubt. So maybe listening to the grassroots becomes more important in the future than running away with decisions in a cucumber time. It gets exciting if the submarine outside of Fedje is prioritised, and then to come up from the depths, or if he is still going to be at the expense of the living now, and future generations. E39 is another project - the road that has started but is not finished. And in this context, the government says that increasing value creation should be a priority. That's great. But just when it comes to E39, there's no more nourishment and development in this area until the road is finished. It's that simple. In my home municipality, we are building a new culture house, a private initiative with massive financial support from various private and even from the state. What's disappointing is that state authorities don't contribute. One had hoped that the government would also participate in the effort. Of course, one can hope that there is never such a little surprise in the budget tomorrow, but the signal that has come out is rather bad. Perhaps it was just a private initiative that made the government not want to give support, as is often the case in, for example. the health sector, where private proximity is a clutter of the public rather than an alternative option for the inhabitants or a supplement. It is a pity that a private initiative should punish itself instead of seeing it positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4018	One of the main reasons Norway is a good country to live in is the high level of professional participation among us women. The reasoning is simple: the more people who contribute to the value creation and thus to the community fund, the better welfare provision for each of us. There is an important support in the Norwegian model. But women's opportunities to participate in working life have not come about by themselves. My mother did not have the opportunity to train, and she had to leave home when she was newly confirmed, to work as a servant in private homes to earn the living. Even then, my mother saw that there were many conditions that needed to be improved in order for women and men to have equal opportunities. For her and many other women it became quite natural to work for equality through the Workers' Party. Through the Workers' Party, we have heard too many important measures that have given women the opportunity to get into work. We can mention both study funding, paid leave on childbirth, the school leave scheme and full child care coverage. The Labour Party has also provided an opportunity for women and men to choose untraditionally in education and occupation. I remember today how proud I was when my mother was one of the first women to start working as an operator in aluminium production at Sunndal Works. But it was not a matter of course, and I know that she had to endure many sling remarks both from men and, in fact, from women for her choice. The right-wing parties believe that we have gender equality in Norway. I wish they were right, but unfortunately it is not. We have e.g. continued widespread use of part-time jobs in women’s dominated professions, which had not been accepted in man-dominated professions. Unwanted part-time means that many people are totally dependent on extra guards to feed themselves and the family. It is also unfair that women's dominated professions are systematically less paid than men's, even if we take into account equal lengths of education and work experience. I am therefore very pleased that we have a government that takes equality seriously, and that has notified through the throne both an expanded paper issue and a separate big message about equal pay. It had not been guaranteed to happen with a bourgeois government based on the Progress Party and the Right. Several countries now look to Norway to learn from our targeted gender equality policy. This I think is very positive. The ability of women to participate in the profession is one of the factors that many countries go to Norway to learn from. I am proud of the equality policy of the Labour Party and the Government, and I am proud of the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4039	When the government joined Stoltenberg in 2005, in addition to increasing the allocations for cultural purposes, it was a expressed wish – an important point, in fact, from the Council of State at the time – to put cultural policy on the agenda. That was a good point, because cultural policy has been an area of consensus and perhaps not of the conflict that was going to happen in order to have a good dynamic debate, which I think benefits the entire cultural area. It is important to have a political debate. So it's still going to have, but the debate's been going on. Despite significant increases in budgets – which I expect to continue tomorrow, I look forward to tomorrow with a great boost to culture – there have been few invitations to particularly interesting structural discussions since 2009. In the spring we had hardly one thing, and the little that has been, there have really been little challenges in it. It's not just a matter of a few things, because unfortunately this is also about an introverting attitude where the Storting is not involved in the big, important issues. The National Museum was moved from Tullinløkka to the West Railway, for example, without anyone ever having heard of it before it ran like a bomb in the news. And ABM development, which represents the entire ABM policy that has underpinned museum, library and archive policy for ten years, was adopted without this hall being involved at any time. In fact, we have post-mortems, I almost get to say, because the ABM area got a big message. It is so short that it could have sent us an SMS. It would have been a simpler way to do it than using paper on it. I really hope this will not be – the cultural field deserves a better debate. We have important areas to deal with as the Right would like it to have become a debate about. income conditions of artists, e.g. It's important to get hold of it. It is an important aspect of industrial policy. And what about media policy? Is nothing really going to happen until the Slagholm Committee has delivered its opinion on the autumn – or on the issue of cultural house development, where we sorely need new approaches to find solutions, as has been done, for example, at the Terningmoen, where the Defence and the University of Hedmark have contributed to a fine solution? The list is longer than the speaking time required. We are living in a time of transition, and it requires a more dynamic cultural debate where fundamental questions are raised, and where we have to get more things in short. It's not supposed to be on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4058	In society we have now received a new public debate, a new policy direction, which has been carried out by the Right and the Advance Party. It's a it-shull-only-deficiency policy. It is a sort of policy sesame, sesame spell that gives the impression that this direction contains strength and political weight. It-should-only-deficiency policy is neither predictable nor fair and is without economic sustainability. But it seems to be the best answer to avoid being confronted and becoming concrete on solutions. It should just be missing when you know that the solutions you have are not wanted. This has been understood by the Right, and therefore the rhetoric is adapted to the market. They've learned from the Progress Party. They present themselves as victims, they use the concepts of majority culture, and they talk about the path and the mass of the goal. The right no longer talks about tax relief, free market, individual, privatisation and commercialisation. Now it's called economic growth, not tax growth, change and improvement in the public sector and a new course. And they're talking about private and nonprofit organizations in the same breath, as if Right Policy is just another glaze on the cake that the government delivers. No, the Right and Advance Party will bake another cake, and they will distribute the pieces of cake in a completely different way. It's not about, as the representative Erna Solberg said earlier today, that we use the words differently, even though that's the main message she and Right would like us to believe. The right-wing leader today introduced a distinction between a welfare state and a welfare society, as if a welfare society could be created without a welfare state. The Norwegian model is based on a welfare state. A welfare state means that the state will be well-being for all. It means a country where the employee and employer relationship are equivalent and the level of conflict is low. It is a country that aims to distribute fairly and ensure equal access to work, education, health and care for all. A welfare state is a country that takes international responsibility for poverty, democratic construction and climate. A welfare state pursues forward-looking policies. Norway’s development has shown that a welfare country, based on the commitment of equal opportunities, is well along in time. The government delivered in 2010 and will deliver in 2011. They don't solve everything, but they work evenly and hard to improve, renew and strengthen – a work the work movement has always done, and will always do whatever resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4071	A society needs entries and contributions from private and voluntary organisations. It is so obvious that it should be unnecessary to say it. But it's when privatisation and postponing competition become an ideology and a principle that overrides sensible solutions, that it goes crazy. We don't have to go any further than to the Bondevik II government's time to find a lot of examples of that. Others have been in the transport sector. I would like to repeat, however, a few areas within the transport sector. For the first time, the railway manager was told to cancel a number of their additions, because now they were going to buy the services in a private market, a market that was not there. This resulted in the railway works losing their best people and a lot of competence, which they wear out today. When we took over in 2005, one of the first things that we did was to stop it, but then it was already getting pretty far. Then it's claimed here that they did some grips that made the maintenance of the roads so much better. One save 500 million. kr by taking out the maintenance and production department of the State Road Administration, separating Mesta and placing it under the Ministry of Economic Affairs as any other contractor. The result is the exact opposite. There was a report of poorer maintenance over the whole country, especially winter maintenance. There had to be an offer bureaucracy in Vegvesenet, a large control unit, and now a review of this shows that we have got up to 80 pst. increase in road maintenance costs. The problem of letting go of a new civil government is simply that it turns out that it is very difficult to reverse such grips, so we often say to those who say that now the Progress Party must be allowed to try, that they can do irreparable damage. But when it's just the State Road Service, I'm going to encourage the government to go in and give them a minimum maintenance department. Now, when I'm in transport, it's an ambitious transport plan. In a society that invests in the development of well-being, it is absolutely necessary to reduce environmental emissions. But one area the government has had a special focus on, and it's getting safe and safe schooling. It is a paradox when we extend the school day for school students to get more exercise and physical activity, that the way to and from school has become so that parents have to run them more and more. Then the problem and challenge is that the state owned that road, the county owned that road, the municipality owned that road. The Ministry of Transport must have a superior responsibility to identify all the challenges we have here and to ensure that different levels of administration together do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4088	An industry that was not mentioned in the Common Era is travel and tourism. The Progress Party wants a sustainable travel life that extends beyond short-term priorities. A sustainable travel life focuses not only on the benefits for travellers but also on the impact of travel life on people in the places visited and on values in nature, culture and local communities. Norway, as a destination for travel life, is quite unique in terms of these possibilities. Norway has a scattered settlement. That means that we have living communities throughout the country, with enough space for both ourselves and travellers. But our unique natural and cultural resources must be safeguarded in order for future generations to have the same experience. Sustainability in travel is therefore linked to accountability, quality and long-term sustainability. Therefore, as the Progress Party wishes, travel life needs to be taken into account through local, regional and national plans. A good travel life is good district policy. That is why the Progress Party will, among other things, simplify the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to strengthen the industry. A good transport network, which the Progress Party wants, is important for our tourists, the Norwegians and perhaps especially the foreign. For example, there has to be: Our roads are in such a state that tourists want to come back. Because that's what this is about: that our tourists are satisfied with their stay and tell their friends how great and interesting Norway is. No other advertisement can compare with this. Unfortunately, Norway is known to be a relatively expensive country to leave. Then it makes sense to reduce the VAT on food serving from 25 pst. to 14 pst. as one of several steps in the right direction. Let's think it'll be in the state budget tomorrow. In addition, the Progress Party will continue to invest in the marketing of Norway as a holiday destination. This believes the Progress Party is well spent money that will give much back. All industries also need stable and predictable framework conditions. It will provide the business community with the opportunity to secure jobs and jobs in strong competition with others. The Progress Party wants more freedom for the individual municipality – without any state saying no when it comes to, among other things. use of snowmobiles, or land plans allowing for cabin construction, etc. The Progress Party also wants a restrictive predatory policy. In my home country, Hedmark, the summer of 2010 has been a lot about predators and among other things. predators, but there has been – something humorous to say – doubts about whether predators or buffalo are going to be inside the fence. I believe that we should have living settlements, the number of predators must be at a minimum level. Only then can we develop and create a good business life, and quality of life, where the whole family should be able to live and live. I want to be skeptical about a broad agreement on predators, as the census invites me to, as I think this will be a settlement for the predators and against the interests of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4106	In today's throne debate, we have heard that the government wants the elderly to have a dignity guarantee, and it wants it to be easier for older people to complain when it is not as it should be. I have good experience with being with the elderly in a nursing home – they do not complain. I have spoken to older people who want to complain, when they feel that they have been treated unfairly. But no, it's best to leave it in case it might get worse. It is better to take action – isn’t it, then? Then you don't have to complain. We also heard about the welfare state’s services — getting help, care, care or a nursing home is a service. For us in the Progress Party, it's a sunshine right. It's a right you have when you've paid taxes, double taxes and extra taxes to the state over a long life. It's your more solar right that you get a hospitalized place when you need it, that you, for example. help you get nutritious food when you need it. According to KS' calculations, the annual salary bill increases the local government's wage and salary costs by approx. 3 pst. Everyone knows how important it is to have employees with both real and formal skills. Nevertheless, municipalities that have a good working environment with long-term employees, with employees who have taken on-the-job or continuing training, come out worse in this year's wage settlement than other municipalities. In my municipality of Ål, and in many other municipalities, the compensation of employees has increased the salary of 6 pst. Several municipalities are now in danger of having to cut their budgets. This makes it more difficult to hire highly qualified nursing and care staff. It's going to be incredibly interesting to follow up on how the government intends to compensate for these increased costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4117	Should we continue to invest in Community solutions, or should we break down what has made Norway one of the world's best countries to live in? There are important differences between government options in Norway. Trust must be created that a welfare country, covering all, can only be built on the basis of the Community. The market cannot secure people's everyday lives in a good and fair way. We must have a policy that is based on values and ideas about how we should be against each other, about freedom, about justice and solidarity. That's why we have to solve the challenges together – not for us. A society of good community solutions gives each of us greater possibilities. Security is a provision for freedom. A safe man dares to bet more than insecure man. Freedom first becomes a reality through Community solutions, providing all a basic security. Since the war, we have all been involved in building this country to become one of the world's best countries to live in. The alternative to today's government is a blue-blue government, which means a society with a high degree of privatized well-being and significantly less political governance than we have today. The Labour Party does not oppose private solutions and markets. But knowledge, care, free movement and society's infrastructure are about sharing and responsibility for each other – not about buying and selling. The right-hand side is that the value creation can only be done in the private sector, while the public sector is only one expenditure item. We look at it quite differently. It's not like producing drugs in the pharmaceutical industry is value creation, while the same drugs are a cost when they're used in a public hospital. The main point is to make the best use of resources for society, regardless of whether they are created in the private or public sector – not to privatise for each price. The welfare society must be a trampoline from which people can bet, and then we must build the welfare further, not build it down. That's why it's so important to bet on the community. The government prioritizes the fight against unemployment. It's because we know there's no greater waste than letting people go free. It's not really about money, it's about making people feel important and useful in society. It is about giving every opportunity to sit around the dinner table and tell us about the working day. It's about the kids being able to tell their friends what Mom and Dad are working on. It's about quality of life and security in your own everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4136	Today’s government’s speech and debate show that the 262,000 patients waiting for treatment in the Norwegian health system must unfortunately be prepared to wait even for a while. The problem in Norwegian health services is not, as one can get the impression by righting the debate today, that a number of private actors – commercial operators – are trying to raise money from the public. The problem, however, is that the capacity is too small. The number of patients waiting for treatment is increasing, and they are waiting for more and more needed treatment. Neither the Prime Minister's posts here today nor the census suggest that these individuals will be taken more seriously in the coming year. Despite these challenges, the government systematically reduces the treatment capacity of Norwegian hospitals. Around the country, residents in these days are concerned about the supply of their local hospitals. Unfortunately, they have every reason to do that. Despite the government's promises that no local hospitals will be closed, the regional health establishments continue to run into local hospitals. The government's promises are hardly the world's paper they're written on. It is a problem that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health maintain their arguments attached to the local hospitals without defining what content these hospitals should actually have. In Nordfjord, Health Förde is already in the process of changing watch regimes and moving equipment and competences. In Volda, people are still afraid of their emergency and food supply. So do they in Kristiansund. In Oslo, Aker Hospital has already received the mercy allowance from the government. Unfortunately, this is not a unique case, but it is the situation that most people experience that the Norwegian health system is in. When the Minister of Health says today that people will be treated near where they live, it is not a threat. The government must understand that a local hospital is not a building, but it is a collection of medical services for the inhabitants. The main function of the local hospital is emergency medical preparedness, which now disappears while the Minister of Health washes his hands. The Progress Party now demands that the Minister of Health take full responsibility for this situation and ensure that the citizens of the whole country have the necessary health care that they actually consume.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4153	The red-green parts are clearly on the defensive and must therefore resort to scare-mongering propaganda, among others. in the mention of the Welfare Policy of the Right. But the development of the welfare system began long before the Workers' Party became involved in Norwegian politics, and the Right has, throughout its history, been involved in building welfare, and that of course the Workers' Party knows that. The government parties boast of how much money they spend on welfare, but they say little about the results, and that's for good reason. What they don't want to talk about, it's that the poor have gotten worse, that there have been several poor families and children, who have to go to the Salvation Army to get food and clothing, that 6,000 people are homeless – that's an increase of 10 pst. – that more people are waiting for treatment in psychiatry, and that is a deadline every day. The provision of rehabilitation is very poor and the waiting time for drug treatment has increased considerably; over 4000 are waiting for treatment. And the waiting time for the offer has increased by 50 days to 270 days on average. For every day that goes, the possibility for many to come back to work is reduced. And the health cows have increased by 50,000, so there are now 248,000 waiting for treatment. The government has created a classroom health service by allowing those who have money to buy health care in private hospitals. These are some examples from the world of reality. This is what the government won't talk about. Right will ensure lasting well-being, and prepare Norway for the challenges we face in the future. We will provide more knowledge in school. We will create more and invest in the welfare of the future through value creation and growth, and we will improve public services through better quality, greater diversity and more choice. The government spends an incredible amount of money, but delivers too poor results in important welfare areas. Government policy does not solve the challenge we face in 2020. And that's what's going to threaten the well-being. Finally, through my 13 years at Stortinget, I have never experienced the husband of dishonesty and horror propaganda from the red-green parties – or let me say lack of propriety. Such behaviour would hardly increase the confidence of the population in politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4166	In this debate, the distinctions between the parties and the divisions of Norwegian society have emerged quite clearly. But there is one distinction that cannot stand unexplained, and that is the distinction between women and men. It is important that we do not buy the gender equality banner on the right and agree that we in Norway have achieved the goal of our feminist work. SV is a feminist party. Perhaps our main contribution to changing Norway is just the gender equality struggle we've been part of. Without the left-hand struggle for women’s right to work, and the welfare arrangements that make it possible, Norway would today have lower wealth and fewer children. We have a long way to go to full women's liberation in Norway. That's what we're looking at. We're looking at the pay gap, we're looking at the human domination everywhere where there's a lot of money and a lot of power, and not least the frightening amount of men's violence against women in Norwegian homes. We are facing a major social problem, a problem that limits women's dignity and freedom. According to NIBR’s 2005 survey, every fourth Norwegian woman over 15 years is hit once or more times during the life of a man’s violence. One in ten are subjected to rape, and Norwegian girls are subjected to sexual harassment at school every single day. That is why it is good that the government has brushed the dust of old slogans and once again says clearly that private is political – the violence of men against women and their children is a political problem. In order to improve the security of the population, the government has, among other things: bet on more police. But more police isn't enough, for every Norwegian woman can't bring a police officer home. We have to think bigger than that. The police should be offered additional training on how to deal with issues where there is a suspicion of violence in relationships. Alternatives to violence and similar offers need to be strengthened, and we need to protect our crisis centres and make sure that they get enough money to offer a good deal to all women who run away from man's violence. But maybe the most important thing we can do to stop the problem is stop it before it starts. Improved sex education with a focus on gender and power is a step in the right direction. But more importantly, offering all girls a course in feminist self-defense in school. Such courses are primarily self-confidence courses that challenge girls to meet others. Here girls learn to take power in their own everyday lives, we learn how we can say clearly from when we are subjected to sexual harassment, how we can show security and power through the body language, how we can escape in difficult situations, and of course what rights we have. In addition, girls learn that we are worth defending, and we learn simple physical self-defense exercises. It is primarily by focusing on the problem that we can do something about it, and I am therefore pleased that the government announces that they will continue to fight men's violence against women and hope that it will contribute to increasing the focus on gender and power in school and even more concrete measures against men's violence against women.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4179	When a person hears the contents of the throne language that deals with his government's major project, the Reform of Cooperation, he must be allowed to wonder if the government itself knows how to implement this reform. The reform shall apply from 2012. Whether this reform is listed in the Common Era, the following: ‘In 2011, the government will deepen the cooperation reform by presenting proposals to the Stortinget on new health and care laws, new public health law and new national health and care plan 2011-2015. The government is further working on the challenges related to the capacity and competence of treatment, rehabilitation and aftercare for drug addicts.’ Based on what is stated in the census, we must be allowed to interpret the government so that they do not dare to conclude whether they have a major reform until after the 2011 elections. I think the government has realized that implementing the reform with today's municipal structure will be impossible. With the cracking signals that have come from the Labour Party and the Center Party on municipal structure, I understand that this is very difficult, and that the government does not want to make the conclusions until after the 2011 elections. But what do the local politicians in the country have to do when planning the implementation of the reform? The most serious thing is that local politicians now don't know what kind of competence they need to have in order to carry out their government's major health experiment. When, in my view, the Minister for Local Affairs has made a budget breach about financing the reform, which many local politicians see as small money, this is a mockery of local politicians. We in the Progress Party see that in this situation it is absolutely necessary to change today's municipal structure. The centre party's model of bureaucratic health municipalities is, in our opinion, the worst thing that can happen. We have many examples of how undemocratic the individual intercommunal companies function. We believe that when the reform is to be implemented, one can and should provide an economic basis for it to be interesting for the municipalities to join together of free will, based on geographical considerations. We strongly oppose Helga Pedersen's dictatorial proposal for coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4203	Financing will soon be discussed when talking about social development measures. I would like to take up an area that will only lead to winnings and not cost the government a penny to introduce. There is at least one batch in the government that burns extra for the development outside the most central strokes. Now it is probably the case in Norway that much of the individual likes to call urban strips, not so much like urban strips, but no doubt these areas are responsible for population growth in Norway. In other words, there is a development in the population structure that at least one government party will call negative. The county council must take a lot of criticism for its practice of so-called countersigns, or objections as one calls it in Norwegian. Representatives from the government and parties representing the government, and thus the majority of the population, hide behind this state and give a signal that this should change it, but nothing happens except that fewer and fewer people find it appropriate to live or feed from such a place. When the government talks about district policy, it becomes like listening to a speech on aid policy. District Norway doesn't need any assistance. What District Norway needs is to be allowed to drive economic development and to generate growth in the districts' own special advantages without interference from the government. Away Moe comes with the need for an active policy in District Norway. Yeah, isn't the Away Moe worried when he sees today's development, or is it just pushing out the last drops for one industry that matters? It's nice to hear the Prime Minister talk about local self-government. But it's not possible to survive on fine words. I think it was a predecessor of the Prime Minister who said that the municipalities have great freedom to implement state policy. I guess it's never been more true. Local development is severely hampered by the interference of the government. We see that in land policy there is little like local self-government. If a small community wants to facilitate growth for citizens and businesses, it is being tried by bureaucrats. Unanimity and cross-political decisions in presidencies and local government are simply set aside. Norway doesn't need any more cultivated land, but we need people to grow the land we have. By that I believe that we should have a local development that should not lead to centralisation and depopulation, districts must be allowed to play on their advantages. The active district policy referred to by the government is not the solution, but unfortunately very often the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4222	Not surprisingly, the debate tonight and during the day shows that the right-hand side’s solutions to many of today’s challenges are the usual prescription, namely the privatisation of public services, not least in health and care. Erna Solberg has expressed his concern about child protection children being sent from place to place, and that good, well-functioning rehabilitation sites are being laid down. In SV we are also concerned about this, but unlike the Right Party and the Progress Party, we do not see that the answer is to a greater extent market orientation and privatisation. Is it not the very principle of supply that is a major cause of these problems? Short-range supply between supply and price focus allows well-established supply to lose rounds of supply and investment to tens of millions or more without users. This again means lost jobs and lost skills. Is this good economy? Health businesses that buy the services may save a few dollars, but socio-economically, there is a very dubious store. The real losers are ultimately the users, who are at risk of being moved from a safe place to a new one to which they have no connection. This can inconceivably be improved with several competitors, rather on the contrary. The Christian People's Party's concern for voluntary organisations and their provision in the field is actually more understandable. Here, too, there's a lot of high skills that can be lost. However, I see a major challenge in creating a market-driven system in which non-profit organisations will have one set of rules alongside public and private providers in a competitive situation. This will at least harm the views of the Right and the Advance Party. SV and the government want a system that provides the most secure and long-term solutions for those who receive health and care services. Ideal voluntary organisations should be part of this work. By contrast, increasing market orientation, commercialisation and competition are not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4231	It marches in the streets of the European Union in southern Europe. Rapidly increasing sovereign debt poses greater problems for the nation state, which continues to be responsible for the daily security of the population. Ireland – a model in Norwegian right-hand circles – is in deep economic difficulties. Ireland was called Europe’s economic tiger with very low food taxes. Ireland attracted many volatile participations. Now it gives maritime instability. The head of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said in a speech in the government quarter of autumn 2009 that the social unrest of the financial crisis would be the biggest challenge in the coming years, and he compared with the interwar period – frightening! Fair sharing of the burden of mitigation is a key word in addressing the consequences of the financial crisis in a decent way. Red-green parties have a long tradition of being most concerned with economic and social justice between people. Green parties have the greatest trustworthiness in long-term trustworthiness. Whatever the outcome of the economic downturn in many countries, this will result in a more demanding competitive situation for Norwegian industry. To face this situation, we must cultivate our greater advantage. As a result of political elections, economic power is so divided in Norway that we have more equal economic conditions among people than in other countries. Ownership rights are distributed among the many, whether in the case of the owner-occupier or the owner-occupier. Another advantage is income taxes with progressive income taxes and taxes on high net worths that provide labourless income. Norway does not currently have a traditional political right-wing wave, but an increasing impatience among peoples to exploit Norway’s unique economic space — this to take care of the best values in different countries Norway, a country that is not seaworthy enough. I want to point to four key challenges. The first is to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions for employees in the same way as the provision of income opportunities to maritime operators which make it attractive to take on a higher level of responsibility for employment than that of employees. The second is to modernise the business life of mainland Norway with a targeted industrial policy that strongly invests in the processing of renewable natural resources into products and services that provide high value products. These jobs are more important than others. This is also taking the climate problem seriously, because there is investment in green industry. This also strengthens the export industry, which in many cases is struggling today. Just look at the woodworking. Thirdly, we need to improve communication, shrink the country and reduce distance costs. Mobile coverage and fiber cable for all fixed settlements are important keywords. This requires a system reform in which public corporations are held liable instead of private limited liability companies which are normally only doing what pays and strengthens the share price. Finally, the last challenge — to improve the living situation of those who are struggling in everyday life. Too many people don't complete their basic education, which easily gives them a losing role for the rest of their lives. More and more people are having mental and drug problems in their everyday lives. All 75 pst. Of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons, there will be a return. It's a radical increase in the number of child protection cases. System reforms are necessary where a common denominator needs to be preventive and more practical work and training that allows individuals to better master their own lives with increased sea level and dignity. Red-green parties have the tradition of being good at this. Our voters are impatient, let's listen to the good practice of those who work in the first line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4254	I noticed that the representative Lundtigen did not mention this to use the whole country. In fact, it was probably in the cards in a lot of what he was talking about, but this time he did not actually use the term ‘to take the whole country into use’. The Center Party has often done so before. Maybe there's a reason why the Center Party doesn't want to use that expression anymore. Maybe it's that the government actually doesn't use the whole country. Prior to the 2005 elections, the issue of the deployment of State activities was an important topic. Not least the Center Party flag this very high. Then you were going to move out 6,000 annual works, I think I remember from the election campaign in 2005. So it wasn't like that. I guess it wasn't big like a sausage bin that was actually moved out. The theme was seen for quite understandable reasons in the 2009 election campaign. The question now, after the first year of a new government period in which the Central Party will sit at the rudder, must be: have you given up, or can we perhaps hope that this will change, that we can use the whole country by deploying businesses? For example, when the government of Stoltenberg took over after the government of Bondevik, we got a system in my home country after the big change in game policy. We had agreed that a section of Norsk Typing would be moved to Fenres, as compensation for Norwegian lottery operations to cease. This was simply torpedoed and consistently undermined by the government. So that's how it all turned out to be a flop. In the period leading up to this, we also had a question about collecting the ICT services of the Defense Service at Jørstadmoen. The government has tried to turn away, but a hectic job from the representatives of the upland government parties has led to the transfer of management, the so-called Chief INI. Maybe more interesting is how many people are going to move with the boss. It is about central departments with quite a number of posts, which are today in Oslo, and which were supposed to be moved to Jørstadmoen. The next test will be the police's data and material service, and this time it's not as far as you have to move. It's just for Gran. There you can actually take the train every day, if you want to absolutely cling to the capital. It's going to be interesting to see if the government is able to mobilize so much that it's able to make a move, if it's no longer than to Gran. It is important for the technological environment there and for the technological environment that lies on Raufoss and around Gjøvik, that this is done. Here it should be possible to get to something. We'll see if the Center Party has any breakthrough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4269	It's with great wonder I'm reading the throne. It may seem that health is not an important field of activity for the red-green government. This is an extremely important area for the Progress Party. After reading the census, I do not find a single place where the words «hospital» or «hospital» are mentioned. The document uses fine words on other themes, such as ‘security for individuals’, ‘people’s ability’, as an important ‘resource’, etc. Just like those words, the Progress Party fully agrees is very important for people in their lives. In addition, the government says: ‘The aim of the government is to give all people throughout the country the opportunity to develop their abilities and to live good and meaningful lives.’ However, it does not seem to all 262,000 in hospital queues to hear that the government is proposing a ‘health and care plan 2011-2015’. For these people, concrete objectives and actions are relevant. The advancement party has always given priority and will always give priority to hospitals. I believe that people are the desperate most important resource we have. The best investment you can make is treating people who are sick and waiting in a hospital queue. This is not only about respect and dignity for the individual, but also about the fact that people who could otherwise have been in work are standing outside. Getting taken seriously and getting treatment when you need it, and providing people with security so that you can always be sure of getting help when you need it, is essential in a welfare state. In the government's document, there is nothing for me to say that people who despair in a hospital queue are important. Let me give you an example. The central hospital in Vestfold operates over half of its bed places in old building masses on a dispensation. There's been a review of the technical standard in the building mass, and it's depressing reading. It describes the conditions with regard to water and sewerage systems as very critical. The building construction is in a material that will not withstand any leakage. Should this happen, yes then both the A block and the B block must be closed, i.e. over half of the beds at the hospital. The hospital has no funds for investment until 2020. They must take over their normal operating budget, which in turn will result in fewer treatments. I have to ask if the government believes this is security or to bet on people, which is an important resource. It is discouraging that hospitals are not mentioned in a word in this census. My conclusion is that with this government, the Hospital in Vestfold and other hospitals are in a dark place. This has been a strange debate, where government party representatives have spent more time telling about possible scenarios if the Right and Advance Party were to govern the country, and how different we are. Yes, we're different. The progress party will do something. The government thinks everything is good – as it has been, as it is, and as it can clearly be in the future – without thinking anything about its own future policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4290	I can assure the previous speakers that health is important for the Workers' Party and the other red-greens. Norway’s people should have access to the very best we have to offer in terms of healthcare, including in terms of care and care. For the Workers' Party, it's the most important thing we're going to do. All those in need of emergency assistance receive help when they are going to. They're not supposed to be in line, and neither are they. Those in need of treatment should be offered tailored to them, even if some have to wait — perhaps for too long. Anyone who does not manage at home should be offered help. Sometimes there's a lot of noise in the health debate. Sometimes that might be necessary to get what doesn't work out. But it's not all in the paper that's right. A lot of people get good help. A lot of people get a lot of help, and a lot of people are very happy. The budgets in recent years have given a true picture of the formidable increase in funds that we have invested in this sector. It would be better if the opposition spent more time on a real reality description using the forces of this important debate to discuss how we're going to use the resources we have in a better way than privatizing. So what do we answer in red-green? One of our answers is the Reform of Cooperation. We meet the future needs of our services by rethinking, preventing and treating them in a timely manner in the right place. Money is not always the answer. We want to use them, but the way we use them, it's important. The ideas of the interaction reform must be put in place for the good health and care services of the future. Care is more than just healthcare. It's people with a warm hand, it's good food, and it's freshly washed hair and trimmed beard. Because we all have the right to be seen in all stages of life. Care is about respect and the ability to participate — to participate to the extent that we choose it ourselves. Therefore, the guarantee of dignity is introduced. There was an agreement between the red-green parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which the Right and the Advance Party would not be in, because they said it would be nothing of. Now this is it. The good examples of warm care are easy to find, and I have visited many of those who have succeeded. Those who have succeeded are determined and find good things that succeed. A project I want to go especially forward is Lifesglede for Elder, which does a lot of good. A good public provision of care, as we in the Workers' Party fight for it to be, is the opposite of the market-driven profit-driven. 200 more places in red-green Trondheim against the debate in bourgeois overthrow Oslo – I am not in doubt. I believe that the ability of municipalities to solve the public challenges is good enough, because they are just as concerned with providing good care and care services to their citizens as we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4307	It is not said so much about the defense of the throne other than what emerges that none of the weapons will experience a cut. What will be the future of the operation of the Norwegian defence will show tomorrow. However, there should be a warning signal when we hear today's opinion from the Secretary-General of the Army, Opedal, which states that we are handling the Afghanistan mission, but it is now completely marginal. We are engaged in the robbery of our soldiers who are in foreign service, and of our officers. We have a rest period between those who have to be convoked time and time again, which is far from the norm recommended by NATO, and we are likely to have some long-term problems in recruiting and operating our foreign operations that are likely to give some financial challenges that I am strongly in doubt about tomorrow's budget. This will also develop a form of professionalisation that may be in line with the broad desire of Stortinget to have a duty of protection through a first-time service to recruit both outdoors and at home. Is it that we have a culture among our peoples in Afghanistan, soldiers and officers, who don't keep goals? This has become today's theme too small, but was last week's big conversation theme. Let's say from my side that, of course, unculture has to be taken at the root. It does not belong in the Norwegian defence at all. But at the same time, I just want to say that from our homey, warm sofa hook, I think it is very difficult to get into the everyday life of Norwegian soldiers who experience a much more tough and difficult situation in Afghanistan than ever before. That's why it was very disappointing to experience the violent condemnations that the Minister of Defense and Defence brought against Norwegian soldiers, which are in stark contrast to the information we've heard year after year, namely that Norwegian soldiers stand for a high level of military science and ethics. This is the information we've heard every two years. There is no reason to doubt about it, but which is now almost turned upside down after a report from a human race after a six-day stay in Afghanistan can tell the Norwegian community that we have a culture that is closest to a low level, and that is condemned by those who should first and foremost ensure that the dirty laundry is taken as a service route, and not hang out those who make the strongest effort on behalf of the nation, as it is presented by the defence minister and the defence leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4314	Several representatives from the right-wing parties, but especially the right-wing parliamentary leader Erna Solberg and also Røe Isaksen, have tried in this debate to make a distinction that I think it is necessary to comment on. It's that they say society is there, while the state is there. They say that the red-green parties, and especially the Working Party, are primarily occupied by the state, and not by the whole community. That I have to say is a very special consideration. I do not hear any representatives from the right parties propose pure, private solutions in the welfare field. This is because they assume that everything they call private solutions will be funded by the state. Making an attempt to make a distinction between what they call civil society, and the state, is an artificial and, of course, completely unreasonable distinction. It's an interaction between civil society and what we can call the organized state that is the way to build a modern and open democracy. Trying to doubt it is completely incomprehensible to me. In this case, it is appropriate to explain in more detail how private society should then be financed if it is not to be financed by the State as provided for by the Right at least to date by the scheme within the private base. That's the one consideration I had. So the Red Icemaker said something in his post that seems very lenient. He said we have to have a balanced society. The tax shall not be too high and shall not be too low. No, of course it is. But how high and how low is, of course, a very interesting question. This attempt from the Right to camouflage its argument of talking away from the fact that they want a different social model than the social democratic model will not succeed, because it is made by this kind of argument here in the main hall and otherwise in the public debate, and it will not succeed. To it is the center-left side of the strong. Finally, I just want to say that the public sector has been attacked by very many Right-Representatives in this debate in a completely unreasonable way, of course. What I never stop to wonder about is that the right-wing representatives don't see that the public sector is a big resource for the private sector. Had we not had the public sector of the size and vitality we had during the financial crisis, the flexibility and ability to deal with its challenges would have been much less than it has been. Norwegian business is very happy that they didn't have to take the noise, but that the public sector took a lot of it when the financial crisis came.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4323	You have to listen when Martin Kolberg talks about unreasonable claims. Many trending allegations have been promoted – to confusion alike – by representatives of the positioning parties. They deserve a comment. Several in the debate have claimed that the Right privatises well-being and leaves it to market forces. Well, when the public is responsible for the control and financing of a service, is it left to the free play of the market? The answer must obviously be no. Does the use of private service providers lead to an increased need for quality and content control? Well, should not the quality and content of public service providers be subject to the same control as that of private service providers? Or is it good not to know anything about the quality of all the time citizens can't choose anything else anyway? Right wants freedom of choice for all. The Workers' Party and SV will reserve freedom of choice for those who can afford to pay for it. It's really, in my opinion, profoundly unsocial and unfair. We must let go of all good forces to provide good quality in public services to an adequate degree. Let's not fall into the trap that we believe that public enterprises have a monopoly on good ideas. That doesn't mean they have bad ideas. On the contrary, the public sector contributes by mass. We're supposed to be happy about that. At the same time, it doesn't mean that they contribute everything and that they can't get any better. It is obviously not that public enterprises have a monopoly on good ideas – something the Stoltenberg I government agreed with us, unfortunately not the Stoltenberg II government. The Prime Minister is also concerned about the market governing public services, and of course it would be bad if there were a link between supply and demand in the public service provision. The state of health services and care shows that the Prime Minister prefers significant demand to be met with a limited range of services. The Foreign Minister and the representatives Pedersen and Solhjell have noticed that I believe the objective of the welfare state must be to help as many people as possible to stand on their own feet and live with their own strength. Obviously, there have been some misunderstandings about what this implies. So let me clarify: it's about enabling people to live on their own income rather than public social benefits. It's about creating opportunities – not just for someone, but for everyone – by helping those who can be in activity and work get into activity and work. 800,000 people are out of work in Norway — many of them involuntarily. It is unacceptable that people who will and can contribute will not be able to do just that, and it is remarkable that the government is hiding behind low unemployment rates when one in four working-age Nordics is out of work. Living by its own power is therefore not about weakening the universal welfare systems. On the contrary. Right wants to renew, improve and strengthen public welfare services. We will preserve the welfare community, but we understand that important values are best preserved through change in line with the evolution of time and the needs of citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4349	To the extent that the dark blue coalition has spoken industrial policy here today, they have put up a very narrow perspective on industrial policy. The Right Party and the Progress Party tend to make industrial policies sound like taxation and tax havens. What they can't see is what is actually the basis for the success of Norwegian business. The success of the Norwegian business community builds, among other things: in a well-developed welfare country. The right-hand side tends to say that the welfare state is a tax on business. It's completely wrong. It's just business that needs a well-developed welfare country. It is precisely the security provided by the welfare state that allows them to focus on being innovative and using time to drive value creation. I was with Erna Solberg some time ago in a debate on innovation. There was a lady who had received the female founder's prize this year. She said that if it had not been for the kindergarten in Norway, she could not get the founding price. It only shows that what Right is ripping down and saying is a tax on industrial development is an excuse for industrial development in Norway. The right-hand side is those who rake down on what builds well-being and builds industrial development, and this shows that well-being and industrial development are two sides of the same coin. The second case to which the Right and the Advance Party are rakeing down, and which is very important for the development of nutrition in Norway, is the state ownership. State ownership in the energy sector, and not least in the oil sector, has not just given us an oil fund. It is the state ownership of the oil sector that makes us the world's best supplier sector. The state ownership in the oil sector is sub-contracting – he is developing a supplier sector that makes us have between 50 pst today. and 80 pst of the heaviest technological products in offshore. It is the state ownership that has developed. It's the same state ownership that the Progress Party in its time would give away for a lick and nothing when we started the debate on who would own the oil resources in Norway. Now the Progress Party and the Right will privatize and give away the community's values, including the money machines that are still in state ownership. So the right-hand side looks blindly at taxes and rakes down on the things that have built the business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4362	The conclusion of the previous article must be that the Socialist Left Party is for oil revenues but for oil activities. But I start with a quote: U.S. countries have to take more responsibility for getting out of poverty themselves. Tax payers must begin to see results. Assistance should no longer be a matter of course, and now it is time for several countries to take action themselves. So this is not a quote from an aid policy seminar in the Progress Party. It is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg who said this in an interview with the NRK on 21 September this year. So now we're excited. We look forward to a major structural shift in the aid to the state budget that is being provided – later today. It was a little disappointing, therefore, that assistance was only mentioned in a petition in the throne, and without any changes being notified. In September, I was visiting some countries in Africa, and let me give you an example. Tanzania has been the main aid country for Norway for almost 50 years. Norway has contributed more than 22 billion. kr to Tanzania since 1962. But the situation is tragic. Not many other than the assistance organisations have benefited from the assistance. The roads are miserable, people live in wavehouses or strawhouses, there's no flood and water in them. Where has it been of the results of all these billions, ask many, including Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. And we're adding, how long are we going to keep going with billions to no use? 50 more years, 100 more years? I'm just asking. We need a comprehensive reform of aid to poor countries. Today, Norway is spreading money thinly to over a hundred countries. The number should be reduced so that Norway is given responsibility for a few countries, which we can get to know well. Other donor countries can then withdraw more or less from these countries and take responsibility for countries in which Norway is not closely involved. This will be the responsibility of the donor countries. Norway will then have a concrete responsibility to make assistance work in some countries, and not as it is now, now all donor countries are responsible for all beneficiary countries. Or to say it in Norwegian, no one is responsible for anything. We have to get away from such a powdering of responsibilities. Then we have to bet on the most important things first: building road networks and ports and supplying water and energy, and giving the poor countries access to the world with their export products. The WTO, the World Trade Organisation, is a good starting point for such work, since the vast majority of beneficiary countries are members of the WTO. When production, trade and transport are in order, the rest of itself follow. Now we wait for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4384	On Facebook there is a group called Talking. It's big, and it's growing fast. It seems like a little bit of courage to sign in here. It's viewed as right and eager to talk something and someone up, more than raving down on things. The debate here today shows that there are few of the opposition politicians in the Great Britain who can be a member of this group, because when the opposition talks about the government, and not least how the nation of Norway works, it is not very good to hear: there is a crisis in the country, which is due to a red-green government. Both in itself and in relation to other countries, hospitals, schools, transportation, bureaucracy, tax and tax levels, immigration and crime have never been worse than they are today, and we have never spent so much money and got back so little. The opposition's message beyond the day, evening and night has become increasingly clear. So those who still believe that there is something in Norwegian society that works must now start believing again – because there is a crisis in the country. Well then, at the very beginning today, there were some of the leading opposition politicians who said that most people are doing pretty well here in the country. But, to put it mildly, this has not been followed up later in the debate: it is a crisis in the country. But the opposition is going to have that, it's not going to sweep out. It is offensively prepared to save the nation. And as a member of this promotion group, I'm just going to try to talk to the opposition – which now consists of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party – up, interpret them in the best sense, notice all the good things that have come, all the good news that have come in connection with that project, because they're really there. They say to us that they Both to make the rich richer and to make the differences bigger and, at the same time, not to do so by improving the distribution of both to dampen public money consumption and, at the same time, to reject the whole rule of action, both to reject the idea of man-made climate change, while stepping up the work of just reducing or eliminating the environmental-accident anthropogenic activities both to reduce the number of hospitals and to save the same hospitals both to liquidate the welfare state as universal for all of us and to build it on both to reduce massive immigration and, at the same time, to increase both the living conditions of those who have pushed us in, while at the same time improving the living conditions of the same hospitals both to increase self-esteating and user-payment, and to reduce or eliminate them both to slimen and reduce pensions, and to improve pensions both to provide great tax relief, and not to reduce both aid projects, and to increase them to reduce both control and bureaucracy, and to reduce them, and to reduce it to reduce them, and to reduce it to reduce tax relief, to reduce tax relief; Here there are many good bits for all of us, and so I have contributed to the forwarding of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4437	Several of today's speakers have been concerned with the Christian People's Party's identity crisis, and that's quite natural. The Christian People's Party's perception of itself and its position in Norwegian politics has meaning not only for the party itself, but for Norwegian politics in general. I'm not going here and now throw myself into the game of the party's soul. That's enough of them doing it. But I have to admit that I find it quite incredible that a party that is maintained by freers both to the right and to the left has maneuvered into a situation where they are torn apart by their relationship with the Progress Party. Why – and in this case I hope that the President will allow the name – in the name of the Lord will the Christian People's Party at all have to deal with a party so distant from the Christian values as the Advance Party? Is it so that the Christian People's Party needs the Advance Party – and in that case: for what? Is it to ensure the living conditions of the elderly and the elderly? Is it aid policy, climate policy or the poverty struggle that makes the Progress Party a natural alliance partner? I can hardly see any area where the Christian People's Party needs the Advance Party. On the other hand, it is highly likely that the Advance Party may need a Christian People's Party if the party is ever to enter its government position. And then the question should be addressed to the Progress Party. What will the Progress Party do to deserve the support of the Christian People's Party? Will they meet the Christian People's Party in alcohol policy, in asylum policy, in taxation policy, in social policy, in health policy or in transport policy, for the sake of miles between Bård Hoksrud and Knut Arild Hareide? In this case, there will be an end to everything about the sale of alcoholic beverages at national gas stations, increased speed limits and road toll financing. This would in itself increase the audacity of Norwegian policies. But that's not more likely for that reason. Furthermore, it is important to note once again the agricultural innovation of the Progress Party. I think it's the first time this is being arranged in this room to replace the country's farmers with hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4448	To the representative’s question as to whether the term ‘in the name of the Lord’ is parliamentary, the Presidents may state that it is not. It must be possible to find other concepts for a person to express his political points, even if this President is concerned that a person must have a relatively high threshold before an advocating unparliamentary use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4452	When you get older, you remember worse. I have been reminded of this today, when I have heard the position talk about that we have been saved through the financial crisis primarily by the Norwegian welfare model, but then by the government's intervention in the financial crisis. But I was in the Financial Committee during the financial crisis and cannot come up with a single case that the opposition voted against. On the contrary, we encouraged a quick voting to get things through, from the first bank packages to the last yard package, which came now in ours, and which we at the top of it all had to ask for. But again, it may be that memory fails me. Then we're charged with providing misdemeanour descriptions throughout the day. In the post of the representative Myrli, who is based on the President's speech on Saturday, he says that we need an opposition. At the same time, the representative is Myrli Fürten because we have some own opinions. But the opposition must be allowed to do that, and I hope that the government – and at least the government parties here – seems to be okay. Actually, I took the floor to replicate to the head of the nutrition committee, who believes that Norway has succeeded so well with the Norwegian model because you listen to the trade movement and have this tripartite collaboration, and that it is what has created this unique social model, which does not look like any other known phenomenon in the Western world. The results of the on-the-spot inspection shall be positive for the undersigned on the temporary employment of the NHO Småting in Alta in the autumn. Yes, we need schemes that can get some of the 700,000 people who are excluded from work, and that I haven't heard a single word about here today, into the world of work again. But when the head of the Liaison Committee was at the Småting in Alta, he met the other party in the tripartite cooperation. Then he met the companies, and he met a massive demand from small and medium-sized enterprises, from several hundred, who faced him with demands for simplification, reduced form fields, red tape and more flexible working lives, that it be worthwhile working, that we reduce the top tax, that we have to have smarter corporate taxation by improving depreciation rules, that we have to reduce the taxes on wealth, etc. etc. When the head of the Liaison Committee accuses me of not listening to LO by proposing temporary employment, what should we say about his action on small and medium-sized enterprises? I think that after this day there might be reason to think a little bit more about before blacking the opposition's posts too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4461	This has been the day of the old quotes and old slogans. Representatives of the Red-Greens have struggled to paint scares of the Right past and the country's future with the Right in government. All of this is probably motivated by two things: the certainty that a separate internal chaos and related problems should be covered as quickly as possible, and a raised eyebrow over the Right's good polls lately. Of course, I'm not going to spend so much time on the government's inner life. By the way, I am not going to spend much time on our polls, as I am of the opinion that they don't mean much in this context either. But I want to mention that they give us one small advantage. When we make good polls, we come up with our policies. That's what happened this summer. The right has come up with its own policies. The voters like what they've heard, and then they've given us positive feedback. So for the red-greens, there's every reason to look at it dark. Is there such a difference between the policies of the Red-Greens and those of the Right? I record that there have been attempts to describe the difference based on what the sister parties on both sides do in different places in the world. This, I think, is a wrong approach. In this debate, it may be worthwhile to look around in your own interest to describe the policy and its results. In my opinion, the biggest difference is that the Right much more than the others build the policy from below. We ask people to engage in their own community and create good solutions there. Good policies are being created as close to the population as possible. This requires two important political approaches that I believe are missing in the red-green project. One is that you move power down to the elected people -- so much power that you can create local solutions that fit where people live, and not just at the minister's table. The second approach, which is equally important, is to grant so much free resources that it is possible for local democracy to exercise its power. With the current government, local democracy has received little money, it has gained little power, and it has had to kneel down for, among other things. planning and building law, regional reform and protection policy. Several representatives from the Workers' Party have been up and raved historical reforms with slogans such as now using the same hospital as the industrial worker and the director, and now the director's daughter and the industrial worker's son go to the same school. This dream is unfortunately an illusion. This dream would have been nice, but it requires, first of all, that we are absolutely sure that this is the best hospital there is, and that it is the best school they go to. Here we come to the heart of the debate. None of the red-green dare to talk about quality when they're talking about school or health care. No, if the school or hospital is publicly owned and all the employees are organized, it'll be all right. So on the contrary, you say no to a private correction, so you have something to measure the quality of public service output against. There's every reason to complain about this fact. There is also every reason to complain about it on behalf of public service providers. There are therefore some directors or industrial workers buying a place in a better school or in a better hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4478	This is the second throne debate I'm in, and I have to say I'm not impressed with what we've got out of it. The representative Aksel Hagen mentioned the talk. There has not been much talk here today. I thought we were going to discuss the languages of the throne and the government's ambition for the next few days. That the opposition then brought out some things one thought missing in that vision, obviously the red-green heavy fell for the chest. It became the pure propaganda of the election, and the shootings were directed at the parties that will be a possible government option in three years' time. The welfare model will slide, the Community solutions will be gone, yes, so bad that a colleague said: yes, it really gets so bad, I think I'm converting or emigrating. Fortunately, we do not have the major conflicts in Norwegian policy compared to many other countries. I also believe that over the years we have largely agreed on the development of the Norwegian welfare model. That's why I don't feel much about the misery description of today's society that we've heard from some people here today. When so many self-confident representatives say that if the bourgeois come to power, well-being will collapse, it becomes a little paradoxical. Where I come from, we have an expression that, if someone exaggerates violently, says that 'now they're lying so they think it's seagoing'. It is hardly so that I can believe that everyone meant what was said in this room today. It has been repeatedly said that everything is being privatised — schools, care — and that enormous tax relief is being introduced. No, the right won't privatize everything. Right, like the Workers' Party, I think that the core of care is public, but we believe in a supplement of private solutions. Right won't privatize all the schools. Right believe in a good public school, but we believe that a supplement of private schools will be enriching to all of us. And the Right won't rage the agriculture. The right believes in sustainable agriculture throughout the country, but believes that bureaucracy has become so big that it is burdensome, and that it is a burden for very many. Local democracy feels we're in the process of being confused. Local decisions must, in substance, be approved by the State or by the State today. That's why our party leader, Erna Solberg, has said that we want to take over the power to give it back to the people. Our slogan is not that everyone should come, but: an opportunity for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4496	After a long day and something that seems even longer by a number of progress party representatives who describe our country as a backward society, I wonder if I ever left Ethiopia, South Africa and Tanzania that I visited with the Labour and Social Committee a short time ago. I have to say that on my journey I found people with a different belief, a different way of life and other values that I felt more related to than the values Tybring-Gjedde represents. The great challenge is that we all get older, and that more people will need good care for the elderly, we can only deal with everyone by contributing. It requires hands and heads in rich monn. If as a country we are not able to streamline our own private fun and produce more children, the Progress Party should have a propensity to say yes, we need you, every time it's time to settle refugees in our municipalities. Only by seeing the possibilities of the people we meet on the road can we see how rich we can become as a community. In a world where social distress increases with mass unemployment, right forces get many contradictions to play with. Our own continent, Europe, is no exception. When the right-hand side asks what is our big project, it's easy to answer. Our project is to keep our country together. It is about giving a clear message that everyone is needed, and fighting unemployment and poverty. We need to keep a critical eye on the best possible use of Community resources – not to cut taxes, as the right parties will, but to invest better in people. However, it is paradoxical that when public activities use resources on what cannot be counted, measured and counted, the Right shouts about wasting taxpayers' money, while if a commercial company is well-being and pushing profits into private pockets, it expresses efficiency and entrepreneurial activity. Everything cannot be measured, counted and counted – perhaps least of all the most important things in life. So we're going to have to spend the big money on the big problems. When I look beyond this hall, I see many of the people who would have received the tax reliefs on the right. But, my well-born colleagues, we have salt in the food. Let's show ourselves big and give hope and opportunities to those who have given up, those who do not believe in a better future! What separates us from the right is our ability and our willingness to invest in people. The challenges ahead are many. Let's raise our arms and wish each other a working harvest!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4511	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen taught me a lot about the Right and our policy today. She makes Right as a party that loves the cynical market forces, which engages in politics to make Norway a worse place to live for the most people, who will never answer for themselves or tell the reality of their policies. This is wrong, and I'm taking a distance from such a description. We in the Right are engaged in politics for exactly the same reason as everyone else in here, namely a genuine desire to make Norway a good place to live. We only have other solutions to achieve this, and it has to be allowed without being accused of driving a kind of veil of reality and foreshadowing a policy that has no people's way and well as goal. The representative of Thorkildsen today told of his nurturing grandmother who did not care whether her home care was a private or a public service provider. The most important thing was that the grandmother was satisfied and could even influence the offer she received. I couldn't say it better myself, because this is good right-wing policy. What's a shame is that this is not government policy. In the belief that all private actors aim to make money on people’s disease, the government refuses to allow private forces to escape in healthcare. This is why health cows have increased and continue to increase during this government. This is why young people who are struggling with mental disorders become in line until they become so sick that they qualify for hospitalisation — for fear of suicide. This is why people who have good advice pay off the queue and enter private health institutions. It is this policy that leads to class divisions and reinforces the differences in society. Right chooses pragmatism rather than idealism in health policy, and we will facilitate people to get the help they need when they need it, regardless of whether the offer is public or private. The most important thing is, after all, that people get healthy and faster get back a good quality of life. Finally, I would also like to comment briefly on some of the things that have been said about the market forces here today. The Prime Minister himself said from the interlocutory that he is opposed to the market and to the'market foundation'. Why should the market, which, after all, consists of all of us living in this society, be produced as it is called the alternative to the community of the state? It is not the State alone that is responsible for the value creation and the community that constitutes the Norwegian model. It is the people who live here, and then also the market in which we work together. In the future, growth and value creation are primarily driven by the private initiative, which will ensure well-being – not the state. The task of the State must be to facilitate the creation of value and the ability of people to live on their own strength. This is what builds our society, and this is what will carry Norway forward in the future. That is why I believe in the market and market forces, as opposed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4526	If I am allowed to say something to my good colleague Thor Erik Forsberg, it must be that if he is to have something done, he must not for all things fold up his arms. Then he has to fold up his sleeves. If your arms disappear, it's hard to do anything. There has been a long debate. I guess we're about to go in for a landing, I think. In addition to following the debate, I have had the pleasure of visiting Stortinget's excellent doctor during the day and being put on a double penicillin cure. Of course it has nothing to do with the debate, but it really struck me earlier today that perhaps there were others who have spoken on some kind of medication, for the husband of the groundless and almost desperate attack on the Right and the opposition is probably long since we have heard! Sonja Sjøli said that she has been sitting 13 years on Stortinget and has never heard anything like it, and that does not promise well. Now the government has been in trouble for a while, and it's actually not the opposition's fault. It clearly has it on its own. It is possible that someone has thought in dark corridors in the last days that attack is the best defense. Many quotations and statements have come. I've just noticed a few: the right always attacks the welfare state, the right will build up the welfare society – stretching down on welfare, it was one that also said recently – the right attacks the ‘consistent’ model of the Norwegian model, and if we believe the representatives of the government parties, it's going to be at least as bad as in Italy if the Right wins the next elections. That's not the right that I'm a member of, that's described here. It's not that. The right that I know and am a member of is a party that may not be as concerned with models and systems, but that is occupied by people, who are occupied by the people who these models or systems are actually supposed to help. So if it's the case in Norway that there are people outside, we still have some system errors to discuss. And I think everyone who comes with us must be able to see that we have a paradox in today's Velferds-Norway – we can call it the welfare paradox – and that is that while we are constantly building up the welfare so that it includes more and more and more and hits more and more, and it's good that those who fall outside fall to the degrees and more often outside, and there they remain. That's why the Right that I know used a lot of time and resources under the leadership of Erna Solberg to launch a new program that we called a "new chance" – a new chance for those who fall outside, because there's still some who do. And if we fool ourselves into the belief that we have a welfare system that reaches everyone, we don't see the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4539	The Norwegian police and the judiciary are starting to struggle with a credibility problem, not because we do not trust the job done by the police and the judiciary to detect, investigate and judge criminal acts – the problem is that matters are being resolved. Even things with a known perpetrator are settled. This is not very reliable, and there is a danger to legal certainty. What's extra bad is that the cases are settled for economic reasons. What legal certainty do those who are subjected to criminal acts have when we have it that way? In my opinion, it is small, and it is because this government does not provide the police and the judiciary with the resources they need to carry out its mission. Legal certainty here depends on the economy. The government, with the State Council of Storberget, claims that legal certainty in Norway is good. Compared to what? With the Congo? Yeah, I'm sure it's good enough. But what about all those who are convicted of criminal acts and who have actually not done what they are convicted of? What about those who have been convicted for actions based on bad or missing evidence? But then we have something called the Resumption Commission. It has become the government's alibi for legal certainty, and for all intents and purposes, the Commission has dealt with many cases, and many have finally been acquitted after a wrong judgment. This applies for a large part to what I would call less matters, things without too much and great prestige. But when it comes to big issues with great prestige, there's something else. It is a fact that both police and courts, with or without intent, are making mistakes. When we look at e.g. The Treholt case, there's a big deal in which there's a lot of prestige. I'm not saying anything about Treholt's guilt or innocence, I'm just asking from the information that has now come out, whether the police and the judiciary can do what they want because of their prestige. Investigators stand out and tell about irregularities in the investigation, and it is not sustainable in a legal society. Another thing is the Torgersen case. It's also a big deal with a lot of prestige. Here's one so-called proof after the other rejected that at best little credible and little relevant, in the worst case, that Torgersen could not have set aside the track on which the evidence is based. The Criminal Procedures Act sets out clear guidelines for what can lead to resumption. When the judiciary and the Commission do not have the power to live up to this, it must be taken seriously and action taken to restore the confidence of the judiciary. Priesthood and politics shall not prevent the Norwegian people from being treated fairly by the police and the judiciary. In mathematics, negative and negative plus, but that would mean that if the same error is repeated, it's going to be right for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4552	It's late, and I'll try to be short, but gripping. We live in a peaceful part of the world, and we'll be happy for that. [[Laughter]] But peace is not something that comes of itself, it must be actively protected and protected. It costs to protect the peace, but it's worth doing it, the same way it costs to insure the house. But if it burns one day, it's worth every penny. In the period 1990–08, the appropriations for the Defence fell from 3 p.m. of GDP to 1.6 pst. GDP. As a proportion of the State budget, defence appropriations fell from 6 p.m. in the same period. to 3 pst. - So it's a halve. And during the period 2000–08, the defence reforms adopted in this Chamber have been severely underfunded, and thus not implemented. I noticed with concern that the Prime Minister in his speech today did not mention the defence appropriations in a single word. There's a need for a big raise for the Defense to take back what's lost. Long was the term «Never more than 9 April» a support bar in Norwegian defence policy. Never again would Norway face a threat situation or a surprising attack unprepared, and never again would the defense be built down to a level where in practice we had no defense. But unfortunately, there are actually some parallels between the interwar period and our time. In several statements by the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, it is believed that we do not have any potential threats. And I remember one of our foremost foreign politicians in the last century, the Left's leader Johan Ludwig Mowinckel in 1939 said: We have no enemies, we have only friends. In the 1920s and most of the 1930s, wars on Norwegian soil were considered to be totally unimaginable, and several defence reforms were adopted that were never implemented due to underfinancing. Does anyone recognize the pattern? Leading politicians expected that if a tense situation nevertheless arose, the international construction work, arbitration agreements and the League of Nations would protect us – just as we today think of the UN as part of our security. Should all this fail, we figured that the British with the Royal Navy would intervene. On 9 April, all these illusions were shattered by the German war machine. I am not saying – and I hope not – that something like this will happen again. But let's not leave it to insure the house because we think it won't burn. We know that we have a neighbor in the East who has global major action ambitions, and is in the process of a great military upgrade. It is not unlikely that the tension between the major powers will increase in the future, and that the northern regions will become more strategic both in military and resource terms. History teaches us that a strong and credible defense at last is the support board of our security, and cannot be replaced by other arrangements. That's why there's a real need for a raise for the defense. Tomorrow we'll see if the government takes that task seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4569	The government has presented its visions to the Norwegian society in the years to come. Many of those things we're going to get closer to and concrete here in the main hall during this session. What is clear after today's debate is that the two right parties are not satisfied with the government. It's not very surprising. That's the role of the opposition. More surprisingly, the continuous black-painting of Norwegian society as such, which the Right Party and the Advance Party have addressed here in the Chamber today, and also the lack of confidence in the future despite the fantastic starting point we have in Norway. Last year, during the debate on the throne, the parliamentary leaders of the Right Party and the Progressive Party were almost a little offended when they were challenged on the civil side of the construction project. They said they'd rather discuss politics. I understand that Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen refuse to talk about what is the sum of the economic policies of the Right Party and the Progress Party, the sum of their climate policies and the sum of their immigration policies. But when the Right Party and the Advance Party have been able to enjoy good polls for a long time, one would think that they had confidence enough to talk about what their alternative to government policy is. But they have not shown their willingness to do so in this Chamber today. Nor do they have the ability to answer fundamental questions about their own policies. Neither the Right Party nor the Progressive Party will justify why they oppose measures to combat social dumping, even if they have been repeatedly challenged. The right is talking a lot about the school, but they can't answer a very basic question if they want to reintroduce the private school law if they want to go back to government, rather the question of whether they want grades in the fifth grade. The Progress Party will still not respond to whether they believe that climate change is man-made or not. I will not extend the debate any further, but I will make an explanation of vote. With regard to the Left's proposal on asylum seekers, I understand that the Left does not want to submit that proposal. Then we're going to vote against it. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, we are all going to vote against them. With regard to the proposal on the Nav Ombudsman, we will also vote against it, not because we are opposed, but because we sent it last year. The mail has arrived. The government has it under assessment. So we mean we don't have to send it again. With regard to the proposals of the Christian People's Party on ideal actors, we support the intention of the Christian People's Party to have presented in this Chamber throughout today... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4580	That means that speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4583	It's okay. We ask for the proposal to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4589	Then the president has been informed that there may be some screens in the room where the button to ask for the word does not work. I assume that everyone has the list of speakers, so that those who are registered are visible. The last speaker who's taken on my screen is the representative of Trine Skei Grande, speaking no. 131. But if there's anyone who thinks they've asked for the word and don't come up on the list, we just have to do it the old way and raise our hands. The next speaker is no matter the representative Erna Solberg, then the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4594	Let me first answer a few questions quickly from the Labour Party parliamentary leader. Yes, the Right wants to reintroduce a law of free school so that children and parents get their human rights to choose the school they want to attend, fulfilled. Yes, we're going to want to introduce grades from the fifth grade, but in how many subjects and how much we haven't taken a stand yet. But I think, who's just had kids who've gone from high school to high school, that it could be nice to start with one or two grades before you crash with everything. The fear of this can only be passed to Sweden and checked. There it works perfectly well without the big and difficult things. We can answer a lot of questions, but there are a lot of questions asked in this room that are rhetorical. It's really never asked to get an answer, but to confirm a bunch of myths that you create about other representatives and other parties. Then I would like to say that today it was liberating to hear Martin Kolberg. He had at least understood one thing that very few of the rest of the Workers' Party who took the floor here and spoke about privatisation, commercialisation and market orientation – namely that the Right's policy is that the health sector is to be financed by the public. The parental care scheme shall be financed by the public. School life shall be financed by the public. Yes, in fact, we want to introduce more freedom of choice within a publicly funded system. It is today's government policy that contributes to more privatisation in traditional form when they have 132 pst. increase in private health insurance from 2000 until today. Today, people bring their money to private hospitals to buy themselves out of line because you can't use the capacity of the same hospitals. Therefore, the consequence of the Workers' Party's policy is a greater division of classes within the healthcare system. There's a bigger class distinction in many of the welfare areas that you'll often create here later on as others. I don't think that's because you want to, but it's because red-green politics leads to it when you're not willing to give freedom of choice the other way. But I just have to say that now I'm going to refer to Martin Kolberg. He's got it. It's fine. So that's how the Right wants a publicly funded welfare system. That's why we're also so concerned that we're going to create the dynamics behind it, so that we can also fund it. Then I will briefly run through our explanations of vote. We are going to support proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. We are going to support the proposals No. 2, 4, 6 and 7 of the Progress Party. But I want to say that I really think that all of these proposals had deserved a better procedure in Stortinget. But when we are for them – and some of them are even original right-wing proposals – we therefore vote in favour of them. So finally, I want to say that although we do not vote for that proposal on refugees and Greece, I want to ask the government to think through the debate we had before the summer, where it was a clear signal from us that we wanted to support Greece in their efforts to do something about its refugee situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4611	Helga Pedersen said that the opposition had used this debate for a continuous black paint. Well, my impression that this debate has left behind is that both the Black Death and the Ragnarok are dangerously close if the opposition were to come into position at any time. That, I think, has been a very unworthy part of this debate. So I don't mistrust the motivations of the position to engage in politics. I am quite sure that they are engaged in politics because they want to create a better Norway, and then it would be a good idea – at least of the position – to have the same confidence in the opposition even if we don't agree. The debate has gone along two lines. Some representatives of the position have attacked the opposition to conceal the truth — preferably not to want to talk about their own policy and try to decorate it or to make it as close as possible to a blue copy of the Workers' Party and the government stands for, while others have so far said what is true, namely that the opposition will do something else. We will! So we don't believe in many of the solutions that today's government represents, nor do many of the voters. They want it different. They want another care for the elderly. They want a different health care system. They want a different justice policy. They want a different asylum policy. And that's going to be an expression. At the same time, when one mocks and hoards the opposition in the way that one has done in this debate, one is at the same time mocking and hoarding a large number of the inhabitants of this country, and I think that is a good thing to do in a debate about which choices and the political solutions we end up choosing, and respect each other even if we disagree. But I have also realized that none of the speakers in the position have been close to running some sort of self-search. Everything that happens from the red-green government is amazing. There was even a post here that made it sound as if the cod in the Norwegian sea were doing better under the red-green government. It's going to be a way! But what this shows me is that the principles of indoctrination in the primary school work. They work, and that's something the Progress Party warns against, that's a unit school that's going to do everyone the same, while we want a school that makes people think for themselves. With those words, I want to give an explanation of vote. The Progress Party will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, but we will not support the proposal from the Left. With that, I hope that this debate will be concluded soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4622	It is up to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4625	SV will vote against the proposals from the Progress Party and the proposal from the Left. But together with the other government parties, we hope that the Christian People's Party will make proposal no. 8 which they have put forward into a transmission proposal. I think that one of the things we've been a little wiser about in this debate is that there should be a basis for a dialogue with the Christian People's Party and the other party in the Stortinge on the challenges that the voluntary sector has in the welfare of Norway, and we support the intention of the Christian People's Party. We're busy showing that non-profit actors play an important role in the welfare of Norway, and that they should have good framework conditions, so that they don't squander. I have noticed several good speeches in the debate today on those issues, and not least the representative Højbråten's pointing out that this is a challenge to the ideal, from two points of view. So I ask myself, have we been wiser in other fields? Well, I'm taking two things with me. The one thing is: In the Norwegian Storing, everyone is for the Norwegian model. One is the same for the Norwegian model as for Norway, and then add what fits into the Norwegian model. So I believe that the further debate on welfare policy must focus on what kind of welfare policy. Is it important that there are small social differences in a society to maintain essential features of it? Is it important that we have good employee rights, that we fight social dumping, etc.? The debate must focus on what kind of welfare policy and what kind of welfare reforms we are going to have in the years to come. The last thing I take with me is that a lot of articles I've been listening to in this debate have been busy – from all sides, I believe, in all parties – that we feel very blackmailed by the others. Many in the government party feel that the situation in Norway is being blackwashed, and many in the opposition seem to be blackmailing the government parties. Well, I think I want to say it so that an important part of democracy is that all parties present their policies, but it's actually also an important part of a democratic debate that one has the ability to present what one mine is the consequences, and to describe the policies of others. Therefore, I believe we have to accept that the opposition describes its policy and what they think is the consequences of it – sometimes a bit well expressed, but okay! So on the other hand, we have to describe what the possible consequences are, as the government parties see it, of the Right Party and the Advance Party's policy if they were to form government. It is also part of a political debate. But I think we all want to pay even more attention to what we ourselves mean in the wider debate – at least as in all the speeches I have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4636	Since I see Trine Skei Grande on the list of speakers, I just want to ask that the proposal put forward by the Left to stop transporting to Greece be converted into a transmission proposal, so that we can deal with it properly. The background is very simple, and that is that the principle and the very prerequisite for allowing other countries to deal with asylum applications to Norway, which is the country they first came to, is based on the very principle that the EU regulations and directives, which deal with the process, on treatment, on the status to be taken into account for residence, are actually fulfilled. So that's how the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Human Rights warns against sending people back to Greece. The background for it is two-part. One is that the number that gets their applications processed is about 1 pst. by those who are actually applicants. The second is that those who receive their applications are about 1 pst. of this again. So it is at a level far below the comparable country provided by the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark or Norway for that matter. Another reason why this is troubling right now is that the European Court of Human Rights has already said that it is contrary to human rights to send lone minor asylum seekers back to Greece. Therefore, Norway does not do so, in line with other countries. Now there are issues pending both in the European Court of Human Rights and in the European Court of Justice. Pending this, the United Kingdom has postponed the deployment of refugees and asylum seekers. That is why I believe it would be right to stop this broadcast. This is particularly precarious for families with children. But the government of the Minister of Justice has announced that this is something that the government wants to assess in a proper way. Then I would like to encourage the Left not to deal with this matter now, but let it undergo a proper treatment, for I think this matter deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4643	A few words from the Central Party at the end about what we think has shaped this debate, for the first red-green collection and clarification of the project. I think it has been a nice day to belong to the position. We have represented the will and ability for governance and the future. Some clear lines of Norwegian policy have also been clarified. It has been about legislation on the rights of workers and an orderly working life. It has been about the need for a continued progressive tax system; the principle of contributing according to capacity. It has been about rural policy and agricultural policy. But I also want to make the opposition boast that at least some relevant posts have been made. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the posts and recordings appear to be anything but a collection. In particular, the two right parties have presented a policy and a description of reality that indicates that there is a lot of pointing in the wrong direction. But it's also striking to see just how different the answers are. Even after repeated challenges from the government parties, the answers we have requested have not come. I believe in Siv Jensen when she says she wants something else with Norway. But what a choice it represents for Norwegian society in practice still seems to me after this debate to be completely blue. As I said in my post, ruling the country is not just about disagreeing about what you don't want, but actually agreeing on what you want. I think the Christian People's Party has been very constructive in this debate. Volunteering and framework conditions for the civil sector have been successfully put on the agenda. That is why, of course, we would also urge that the proposal on the table be converted into a transmission proposal and undertake to follow up on the intentions contained in the proposal. These are intentions that we fully share. I would also like to point out that the centre dimension of the Norwegian Parliament has strengthened itself through this day and this evening, precisely because I perceive that the other two centre parties have been very concerned about presenting their own project and future, safely planted in the centre of Norwegian policy. That's what I mean to point forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4658	To continue where the representative Mr. Borten Moe concluded: I think there has also been an interesting debate. As Borten Moe was inside, what I would call centre-political solutions has been absolutely on the agenda in this debate, not least what is an intermediary to not only think publicly, just to think privately, but also to think about how important the civil part of society is, which neither the private nor the public can replace. That was why we promoted the proposal that ideal actors providing health and social services should have long-term and good framework conditions. Then all the speakers from the government parties have asked us to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal. I noticed that the Borten Moe added to a clear obligation to follow this up. In these words, we are prepared to convert the proposal into a transmission proposal. We also do it because we're going to follow it up here in the Storting on the occasions that promise, to make sure that this not only becomes words, but that it also becomes action. I would say that with the Board Vegar Solhjell, Helga Pedersen and now the last time Ola Borten Moe said, we have faith that this will be followed up in action. I think that's a great asset to the Norwegian society, not least when we think about what huge welfare tasks need to be solved. The public cannot do such a task alone. I perceive that we from the Christian People's Party have received many good – what to say – care interventions both from the East and the West, or from the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Workers' Party, and in this context in a slightly demanding time for the Christian People's Party, I suppose we are happy for all kinds of care, whether it is private, public or non-profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4669	I have ambitions to be the last speaker, and I'm not going to create any more trouble. I think it's been a bit of a strange debate. Now we were going to discuss the throne speech from the government parties, and I get a line on why I haven't talked about the Right Party and the Advance Party. I remember very well what I said in my main post. I started by saying that we live in a country where we are very nice. Most of us are doing great in this country. We're very lucky to be living here. The second thing I said, is that we're going to deal with future challenges, we're going to have to take some other action now. So Helga Pedersen says that I make a negative picture of the country and show a lack of faith in the future. Maybe we should take each other a little bit more seriously in what we do. A debate I really think we've started, but which is also very gunnery, is about the renewal of the public sector. The person who is happy in the public sector must be involved in reforming the public sector. Our welfare state actually needs new grips for the future, and perhaps one should have a little more open tone on what the new grips should be. Then I would like briefly to explain which proposals from the Progress Party we are voting for and against. We are voting against the first – of course. The left has been working for hundreds of years, it feels like, to say that politicians are people's agents. I disagree with putting this out for tender. We are also opposed to proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We support proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox That's what I think is timely at this point in time. We are against proposal No. 5 because it violates another important left principle, namely local democracy. We are in favour of proposal No. 6, but we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox Then I want to say a little at the end – I don't see a clock, but I think I have some time left – about Parliament. I have also been the parliamentary leader since the Left was a government party. Then it actually happened that Parliament had an influence on matters. It actually happened in all committees that money was being moved because of public debate. In fact, the government parties voted in favour of proposals put forward in the Grand Duchy because they were wise. I want Parliament to have that power, and I think it is terribly stupid that it evolves so that you do not vote in favour of proposals that you are actually in favour of, because it is not promoted by them that it should be promoted by. That was my comment on our proposal. Then we have a TV action on Sunday for refugees. It gives some pictures of a part of this whole integration, refugee and immigration debate that we almost don't see in Norwegian debate. So if you're going to have something to sleep with, I suggest you go into YouTube and watch the TV action movie. Then you get a slightly different perspective on that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The president can tell the representatives that I didn't see a clock at the end either. [[Votation: see below]] The only one who had the clock left was the secretary. On my screen, it says that there is a small amount of disk space going on. We are hoped that we will jointly be able to get through the voting before everything breaks down. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4694	Then the president believes he has registered that all the party groups have signaled that they are ready to go to voting. We're now very excited about the technical system here, but we're going to get through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4702	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left proposal No. 2-7, by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 8 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure, as soon as possible, that non-profit actors providing health and social services have long-term and good framework conditions.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government shall immediately request the cessation of all return of asylum seekers to Greece until the country has improved its procedures and complies with the signed EU Directives and the Refugee Convention.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal. – The vote is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4731	Does the watering system operate since the screen is not working?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4736	Yes. The only thing that's basically in order is red and green – if I can say it that way! [[Laughter]] The result of the vote is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4748	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a welfare/Nav ombudsman system to cover NAV and the social services of municipalities.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4765	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Works are transformed into State undertakings and that these undertakings are given the opportunity to raise low interest-rate government loans in order to implement the necessary investments in infrastructure.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4782	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan of progress as soon as possible in order to achieve the objective of full health care coverage.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4799	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to ensure older people in the institution an activity offer that can contribute to increased quality of life.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4814	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take an initiative towards the Swedish and Danish authorities in order to obtain a total sale of their shares in SAS.’ The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4831	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all newly educated students from the Police College are employed as soon as possible.’ The right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4848	The President will then propose that the speech of His Majesty the King be annexed to the 155th anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-04.ana.ud376e4922	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? We'll meet again later today!
