ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e48	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e51	I have the pleasure on behalf of the representatives of Oskar Jarle Grimstad, Tord Lien, Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal and myself to promote a proposal by a representative to allow increased catches of royal crabs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e56	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e74	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after the insertion by the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e85	During the previous period, a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs expressed its views on a proposal by Ms Solberg and Mr Vallersnes for a representative: ‘The Committee believes that the Stortinget must also be more involved in this work, and agrees with the proposers that the Stortinget must have the opportunity to open up debate on major EU/EEA issues in good time before the decision-making process is over in the EU. The Committee therefore supports the proposal in the document that the Government should make half-yearly presentations on key EU/EEA issues in the Stortinget.’.» The same Committee expressed its opinion in the context of the Communication on the implementation of European policy: ‘The Committee emphasises the need for the Government to consult the Stortinget at an early stage. Increased influence and early influence require previously clarified Norwegian positions. As part of the earlier clarification of the positions, the Committee refers to the proposal for half-yearly presentations by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on EU/EEA matters’. The Secretary of State’s presentation now on Tuesday was, as always, a good description of the situation. However, there is a long way to go to a statement that satisfies the intention of an overall increase to instigate half-yearly EU/EEA declarations. It was evident how much of the statement agreed to discuss issues adopted in the EU bodies a long time ago. It was also striking how many times the Foreign Minister stressed his plans to keep Stortinget informed and informed, when our clear signal in the previous period was a desire to be consulted. In order for the foreign minister’s presentation to constitute a genuine consultation, the statement must address issues that have not yet been decided within the EU system. It must discuss possible consequences for Norway. It must explain the Government's views, and it must be open to the Storting's opinions on these positions. Such a scheme would not only strengthen the Storting's ability to be informed about and involved in EEA work, the EEA work and the matters that we will eventually actually approve, but it might also help the Government. We have received several signals that it is a challenge for the Government to identify important issues early enough, clarify Norwegian attitudes and get the impact done. In fact, in our neighbouring countries, EU consultations with parliaments act as a catalyst for this work. I find it strange that the Minister for Foreign Affairs barely mentioned the European Commission's work programme, which was presented at the end of March, in the light of the Storting's clear intention to be early-oriented on key EU processes. It sets out key legislative initiatives that will be launched during 2010. A number of strategic priorities are also indicated for the period 2010–2014. The work programme could provide a good starting point for early identification of key legal acts that could be of interest to Norwegian actors to follow and influence. The question then arises: Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs already started work on going through the work programme and asked the departments to start a similar assessment? If such work is started, why didn't the Council of State take it into account? The work programme lists 34 strategic actions and 280 major proposals. The strategic actions referred to shall be presented during 2010 and include, inter alia,: financial market regulation, relaunch of the internal market and EU trade policy. During 2010, the Commission will also present a White Paper on future transport and a Green Paper on pensions. In addition, the Norwegian EU delegation has mentioned proposals in the field of energy. The work programme must also be seen in the light of ongoing work on EU 2020. In this context, it is interesting to look at what has happened in Sweden. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament has examined the work programme and delivered an opinion. The aim of the treatment is, among other things, to create a debate on the matter as early as possible. Of course, the opinion is not legally binding, but the government is given the opportunity to adjust its positions and create a lashing in the Riksdag. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time on what the Treaty of Lisbon and the new EU forms of work will mean for the EEA Agreement. He mentioned several concrete developments he felt could weaken the influence of Norwegian participation, among others. the withdrawal of the pillar structure, which makes it more difficult to identify what is relevant to the EEA and which can thus be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the strengthening of the European Parliament, new comitology procedures – the comitology system is the formal participation of the EU institutions and bodies in legislation – and, in particular, changed voting rules in the Programme Committees. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that Norwegian votes were no longer heard in the same way as before. In these last two areas, the big question, which was not addressed in the statement: what is happening, what is the concern, and what is the Government going to do to remedy the lack of influence or that our votes are no longer heard, as the Foreign Minister explained? Together, the impression of the statement is that the foreign minister makes the correct diagnosis, but does not print the medicine. The right has repeatedly called for concrete action and a clear strategy from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to show that he and the Government take seriously the need to be both offensive, active and forward-looking in their work to ensure that the EEA institutions do not continue to be confused. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ own assessment of the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon on Norway mentions a number of thematic areas. We can do it here, for example. mention institutional changes in the EU, the scope of the EEA Agreement, justice and home affairs policy, security and foreign policy, not least, the energy field, trade policy, taxes and charges. So there is no overall assessment of what it means to be overall for Norway, but the comprehensive assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that promoting Norwegian interests is becoming more demanding. The work in the EU is speeding up after a long discussion about institutional changes has now taken place, and already today there are problems with early enough to capture what is happening. The U.D. considers that the Storting and the political parties can play a central role in the influence of the European Parliament, and the Storting has taken this challenge seriously. It is therefore now decided to send a mission – a permanent one – from the Grand Duchy to the European Parliament in Brussels. But the point is that if this is to have some value, the government must also make sure to present matters so early for the Storting that it is possible for us to know what is happening and how we can influence. On several occasions, at the latest in the debate on the previous statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said that the parties in Stortinget must know their visit to their sister parties and party organisations in the European Parliament. We do, but then we also depend on knowing what's going on at an early stage. In the European Commission last Tuesday, there were further examples showing that the Government does not seem to take the need to highlight Norway’s desire to influence sufficiently seriously. While the Stortinget has repeatedly signaled the wish for Norwegian participation in EU ministerial meetings, it is now apparent that Norwegian government councils have attended only seven out of 19 meetings to which we have been invited under the Spanish Presidency. It is a pity that the Government does not use this channel more effectively when it is offered to us, and it is problematic that we thus turn our backs on a European arena for influence and exchange of experience. In the NUPI Foreign Minister's debate last autumn, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said something interesting about his dilemma under the Norwegian EEA Agreement: ‘It is clear that for a country, so integrated, so actively participating, and with so many ambitions and desires for international cooperation, non-membership of the EU is from a foreign policy perspective, a major and persistent challenge for Norwegian foreign policy’. For a foreign minister, there is a ‘continuous balance between talking about this and the ‘talking down’ of your cards. It's not my job to make me "less" than what I am." I understand the Foreign Minister's dilemma and problem. At the same time, a problem is becoming inevitable in this context. All Norwegian foreign ministers since 1990 believe that the relationship with the EU is one of our greatest foreign policy challenges. If all foreign ministers at all times are to take the same position as Gahr Støre, all future foreign ministers will be in exactly the same position, where our non-membership of the EU weakens our rule of people and our ability to influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e130	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e133	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, was concerned about being offensive and early on in relation to important EU and EEA matters, and I thought that I would give the representative the opportunity to be. You should have a national meeting at the weekend, and there is a great deal of interest and tension in the discussion about the Data Storage Directive. There are many parties that have good discussions around that particular matter, especially with regard to privacy, but what I'm asking is what the representative thinks about the directive, and what she thinks that the Right should do with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e138	Like the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, I am also very happy to attend Højre's national meeting this weekend – I think it will be a nice show, for a party in progress. But I really want to answer the question with some of what the Foreign Minister said in his statement, because when the Government announced in the statement that they have time until the harvest to evaluate the evaluation carried out in the EU by the Data Storage Directive, I also think Right will take that time. If the government has time to wait for the evaluation, the right time should also be left to wait for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e143	Throughout Europe, there is now an extremely serious economic situation, a high level of unemployment — rising — a debt crisis under seal in a number of countries and a serious situation to deal with for the countries. I just have to say that it is almost impossible for me to believe it when the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee talks about the EU debate here for 10 minutes without mentioning it at all. So a question. I expect that the Right still wants Norwegian EU membership soon, including membership of the Economic and Monetary Union, and my question is: How would Norwegian EMU membership affect our ability in Norway to deal with the economic situation we are in, and are in? Would it strengthen or weaken it? In what way could it possibly simplify our ability to deal with the economic situation if the representative thinks it had better ability to handle it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e150	The economic crisis in many EU countries is being discussed extensively, both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. It was also part of the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it was also part of the statement he made about general foreign policy not long ago. There is no doubt that the situation that has now arisen is serious. At the same time, I think it's important to be aware of two things: one is that it's easy for no-parties – I registered it at the latest in a debate in Political Quarter with the head of the Central Party Life Signe Navarsette a few days ago – to show his little harm to what's happening in the euro zone. Secondly, it is important to bear in mind that very many of the countries now affected, especially Greece, are very responsible for the problems on their own. So it's a system where the economy has not been liberalised, it's a system that has not implemented the necessary reforms, and it's a system that's pretty permeated by corruption. Transparency International said that in 2009 it lost 790 million. euro in bribes in Greece. It is also important to bear in mind that the situation for the countries currently in crisis is likely to be significantly worse if we had not had the euro and the solidarity that the EU countries are now showing with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e159	I noticed that the chairman of the committee did not answer the question from the representative, Solhell, but I can ask another question. A few years ago, representatives of the Right were very concerned about the northern regions and the divide line challenge in the northern regions. Fortunately, there has been a solution, even if we are not a member of the European Union. Elisabeth Aspaker expressed great concern that Norway had gone on its own in the north for more than 30 years without results. We need the EU, she said. Paal Frisvold wrote in a chronicle that for 35 years, Moscow has been playing mystery with Norwegian governments about the boundary line in the north. Norway has the right of the sea on its side, but we stand alone. Is it nice that we don't get heard? Is the Right’s position still a challenge for Norway to find a solution with Russia even if we are not an EU member?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e168	Both my party and other parties have praised the Government that the work on the divider line has come into port after 40 years of discussions. I also notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was quick to say that this work is something that rests on many governments, who have worked for a long time to get the result that is now available. I don't think our situation with regard to the divider line question would have been worse if we had been in the EU – which I feel is under the representative's question. I feel that our influence in Europe is very dependent on our having a close relationship with the EU, preferably through membership, but that we can also discuss through these discussion of how to manage our exclusion, i.e. the framework of the EEA Agreement, the framework of the relationship we currently have with the European Union. I think it is good that we have got a solution in the divider line question, but you can also say that it is now that the work starts. That's when the real discussion comes, for example. how to manage the gas and oil deposits that can be found. It is a job that is not avoided, whether the agreement is to be ratified quickly in Norway and Russia — or perhaps it will take longer before the agreement is ratified.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e177	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e181	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a statement that addresses the current challenges we are facing, in particular with regard to the Treaty of Lisbon. This statement also confirms that our extensive participation in EU cooperation is expanded with unreserved strength. We have announced our wish to participate in another five agencies, including: EU Agency for Regulatory Authorities on the energy side. We are going to participate in the European Year of Social Cohesion and Combating Poverty, and the key message of Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective provides for an even stronger link to EU policies in this area. It shows how important it is for us to participate in cooperation with our neighbouring countries on common challenges. I would like to focus on three issues in this article, first of all what challenges the Treaty of Lisbon presents for our EEA relationship. The main challenge, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be that it will be more demanding to see what is inside and what is outside the scope of the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement when the EU develops new policies and legislation. There are three challenges for us. One concerns the agreement between the Commission and the EFTA countries on what is within our agreements, the other on how far our rights of participation in decision-making extend, as defined in the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement, when the border crossing becomes more unclear. But there's a third dimension in this, which there's little attention around. There must also be agreement between the three EFTA countries on what is inside and what is outside these two comprehensive agreements. As the border rise becomes more unclear, there may also be greater disagreement between the three of us on the EFTA side. It is far from certain that Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein will have a similar interest in drawing the same boundaries. One such example is the food law package, which we have wanted to implement in the EEA Agreement, but where Iceland has had a different view. As a result, the implementation of this common legislation covering the whole food chain, from the placing on the market and control of primary production, to the placing on the market and the consumer, has been delayed by several years. Another example is the Services Directive, which is only now implemented in the EEA Agreement after Iceland has dealt with the matter in Everything just before Easter. With the demanding issues Iceland now has on its political table, Icesave, the membership negotiations and the settlement after the collapse of the bank, we can risk more such delays. We are not worthy of being hung behind in the update of the legislation of the internal market. Until then, this market is too important for tens of thousands of Norwegian jobs. The Lisbon Treaty also poses a challenge by increasing the power of the European Parliament. I believe that here in Stortinget we must take a considerable responsibility to strengthen contact with the European Parliament. The decision that one of the employees of the international department here in the Grand Duchy should have their place of work in Brussels is very important in this way. In recent months, there has been growing contact between committees in the European Parliament and the European Parliament and between the party groups. I think everyone who has participated in this work has seen how important it has been to have good helpers, both at home and in Brussels, who have helped with contacts and implementation. The Commission has now presented its work programme for 2010, as also referred to by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. So the representative, Eriksen Søreide, wanted the government's play so that the Storting could take hold of this. However, the GSCs have been given the opportunity to take the initiative themselves and address issues related to the EEA. When you look at the flow of private suggestions presented from this pulpit at the beginning of every meeting, there is no lack of initiative to address matters on your own. I also believe that the Committees should make use of the possibility in this area. I am particularly surprised that the Right should sit still and wait for a replay from the Government – those who, before this big period, have announced that they would raise the EU case. We've seen a little bit of that. But here, right here, they have an opportunity, and because I understand, they have gone through the Commission's proposal for a work programme. Then I think you should use that opportunity. It is a long and interesting discussion – when the Government will come to the Storting, when the Government is prepared to make its recommendations. But the big committees and party groups in Stortinget have thus had an opportunity to address matters, regardless of when the government had to find it right to come to Stortinget with its assessments – which I think is important that we do. I believe that all the committees in the European Parliament should now go through this work programme and flash things out that they think are important, and address them when they are presented by the Commission, so that we can participate in the debate at the same time as our colleagues in the European Parliament and in the parliaments of the Member States. Perhaps the best way to take care of Norwegian interests towards the European Parliament will be against our sister parties there – at least for those of us who have them. At the same time, we should be aware that this also means that the political battle in this Chamber is being carried over to the European Parliament in cases where there is no broad consensus on what is Norwegian interest, but where the political divisions we know from Norwegian policy will also apply at European level. In addition, we need to exploit the opportunities offered by Nordic cooperation, through the EU strategy addressed by the Nordic Council last autumn, to exert influence on important issues. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the new growth and employment strategy, Europe 2020, to which the EU Summit has joined. Norway has recorded, both at the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry. Europe 2020 will affect us in several ways, both through the development of new legislation and through our participation in the various EU programmes. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not say that directly in his statement, but I assume that Norway agrees to participate fully in this work. Although Norway has come much better through the financial crisis than its neighbouring countries — so far — we share the long-term challenges: an ageing population, with associated cost pressures on elderly care and health care, a declining workforce and growing competition from China, India, Brazil and other countries that are in the midst of a raging economic development. The aim of Europe 2020 is to combat unemployment by providing a basis for sustainable economic growth. It is a goal that is entirely in line with a value basis shared by the Government. Therefore, we should participate wholeheartedly in this – not just send some kind of input and hope for the best. The EEA and Schengen agreements are our most comprehensive and important international agreements. The EEA Agreement allows us to participate in the internal market under the same conditions as EU countries. This is absolutely essential for the Norwegian export industry. The Schengen Agreement makes us part of a common European area of security and legal certainty. The third thing I want to touch on is the second important European cooperation we are involved in – the EFTA cooperation. Without EFTA, we would not be able to negotiate the EEA Agreement when the EU decided to develop the internal market. It was the EFTA membership that created economic integration in the Nordic region, which we did not have power on our own. Therefore, EFTA has been important for Norway. The EFTA was created as a reflection of EU cooperation and has changed over the years as a reflection of developments in the EU, as regards both the Member States and the content of cooperation. Today there are only four member countries left. However, EFTA remains important, because EFTA is our tool to give Norwegian business better access to important markets outside Europe – to now through 20 free trade agreements. Monday this week filled the EFTA cooperation 50 years. While tens of thousands filled the streets of Berlin and all the 27 Heads of Government attended when the EU celebrated its 50th anniversary three years ago, the marking in Geneva was of a more modest kind, with a lunch reception and a dinner in the evening for 45 guests. The governments of all four countries limit their representation to official level. From the parliamentary committee, three of us were at the reception and one at dinner. It was a really nice family company, but it was retrospective. This is now beyond the parliamentary responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I mention it, however, because I believe that EFTA cooperation is still important as a trade policy instrument for us who in this area do not benefit from EU cooperation. Now the 50th year's marking gave birth to one thing, namely a book on EFTA. One of the contributions in this book should call for interest and reflection, namely that of the Swedish State Secretary Jean-Daniel Gerber. He describes the Swedish agreement, which, like the EEA Agreement, means that the laws of the country must be adapted to the EU. The choice is, he says, whether we should maintain our sovereignty by not changing the laws and losing competitiveness, or whether we should lose some sovereignty and maintain our competitiveness. So he says, how much longer is it possible to keep such a complicated relationship with the EU? It is a question that, on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon, the development of EU cooperation may make more urgent, including for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e232	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e235	The approach of the three government parties to the EU and the EEA is different, and that is the way the world is. Nevertheless, active European policies are agreed. However, it is a small obligatory heading and umbrella, and we know that the activities of the Councils in relation to Europe, in relation to invitations to participate in the EU context, are very different. Is the representative satisfied with the overall work of the Government to promote an active European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e242	I think it would be an advantage if you found an opportunity to attend the meetings you're invited to and given the opportunity to do, because it's part of maintaining a network. I do not know the reason why you have failed to do so to the extent that it would have been desirable. Whether you are satisfied or not should be measured by the result. It is, after all, very rare for us to experience that the EU is adopting directives, laws and rules that are contrary to Norwegian interests. This suggests that the impact work, through different channels, has succeeded in caring for Norwegian interests. We have recently had a blatant case, and that was the sales case. But it then came from the sideline of Parliament and was not through the usual decision-making process. So we're cutting off our possibilities for the influence line that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e251	The representative Svein Roald Hansen rarely allows an opportunity to ironize over EFTA and the EEA. I understand that this time he has been in the wrong company. What is, however, the problem of the representative, Hansen, is that the vast majority of the Norwegian people want our current form of association, and say no to the form of association for which the representative, Hansen and his party, are fighting. In the government defended by the representative Hansen, SV. One of the strongest entries on the newscasts on TV yesterday was when the representative who is SV's parliamentary leader looked into the screen on Carl I. Hagen's way and appealed to the Right Party to join in and stop the Data Storage Directive. Since the representative Hansen is not going to get the reply from SV here in the Chamber, I will address the same appeal to the representative Hansen and ask about the criticism that the Data Storage Directive has been subject to, has made some impression on the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e260	Let me first say that if the representative Højbrätten understood what I said about EFTA, as ironization, I am amazed. On the contrary, I stressed the importance of EFTA for Norway, because it takes care of our trade policy interests outside Europe. What I might have ironized about was that the marking of the 50th anniversary of such an important organisation for Norway in my view was a bit modest. Maybe you should take advantage of it a little bit better. As far as the Data Storage Directive is concerned, there is a very important debate, and the Government takes seriously the objections, or issues, to privacy raised. But it is also an important discussion from other points of view, namely how to combat crime. What's a shame is that we didn't have the opportunity to participate in that debate while discussing it in Europe. Then we also had a greater chance of moving some of these markers in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e267	The representative Hansen and I agree on a great deal about the EU. We are both in favour of Norwegian membership and believe that we should become a member as soon as possible – I think we can agree on that. So the representative, Hansen Right, criticized that we haven't raised any more issues into the Storting and into the Committees. It's a criticism we might be going to take on, and at least take advantage of that opportunity much better in the future. That doesn't mean that the government doesn't have much to answer for, but that means that the Storting can also participate more actively. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the representative Hansen if he can explain what matters the Labour Party has brought into the committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e274	I think we all have to admit that we could have been more active in using the opportunity that the legislation has now given us to raise issues in the committee. In fact, however, we have been quite active on the consumer directive, both against our own party group and with the committee in the European Parliament. We have also been active in relation to the fisheries policy in the EU through the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. So I'm looking at the beginning of an activity that should accelerate up. Here it is a responsibility for the party groups, but also a responsibility for the committees and for the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, which we both sit on. Also here's a lot to do for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e282	The constant challenge for Norway is our relationship with the EU, a relationship based on a national compromise, the EEA. This is at the heart of the problem — not the EEA Agreement, but for almost everyone it is only a compromise. For most, it was never and will never be the goal of the relationship with the EU. The EEA is the second best. And it's hard to fight for the second best. The grass often appears greener on the other side. But a real political assessment of the political landscape both in Norway and in Europe suggests that there are many clouds covering the sun and that what appears to be the second best can actually prove to be the best achievable. The national compromise also takes place in today’s government, which is responsible for managing the EEA Agreement. All parties in the government prefer to get rid of the agreement – with slightly different reasons. Then it is legitimate to ask: who cares for the EEA with the zeal and enthusiasm that is required? And when I ask questions about fulfilling the EEA Agreement, it is not about political or administrative professionalism. The job is done, but there are limits to how far a government and a government can go, when walking beyond narrow borders can lead to a government collapse. The inadequacy of the EEA Agreement has been highlighted by several. We need to update or upgrade the agreement, but we cannot establish a common strategy to do this. Now a job has been started to look at experiences with the EEA. That's good. Here, however, no-side has been clear that they wanted the evaluation to be more about alternatives to the agreement than improvements to it. That debate will be re-examined when the report is presented. We, who have tried to call for a pre-conquered EEA strategy for several years, have often heard that it is stupid for Norway to put this on the case map, we can risk getting an agreement that is worse. This is a strategy that can be sustainable for a certain period, but at some point it expires. And now that the Treaty of Lisbon has been adopted, my claim is that it has expired. Norway needs a modernised EEA agreement, and this work should be a priority. It is announced that there will be a big message about the theme in a few years. It's with respect to report at the top late. But for a divided government and a divided opposition, it is probably a compromise that is political enough. But that shouldn't be right enough. We should arrest, for example. the possibility that the European Parliament's Committee on the Internal Market has given us when they themselves talk about the need for an upgrade to the EEA Agreement. In Norway, we are good at analysing the consequences and reading changes in the EU and in Europe, but we are less good at transforming our analyses into national strategies for safeguarding national interests. When we agree on national strategies, such as: in negotiations on a frontier line in the Barents Sea, important progress is being made on behalf of Norway. However, when we are fundamentally fragmented, as in the approach to the EU, then policy becomes too. The call for us all must not be to destroy primary positions on the EU and the EEA for an opportunity to have a national agenda in meeting with the EU on an EEA Agreement adapted to the Lisbon Treaty and the EU cooperation we see today, which is something different from the one with which we originally entered into an agreement. Norway is a relevant EU partner in important areas. We should not underestimate the European interest in us. However, a Norway that is at best unclear, at worst deeply fragmented in meeting with the EU, cannot expect to receive the attention or agreements that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e299	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e303	The representative Morten Höglund began by saying that the EEA Agreement is a constant challenge because it is a compromise. It's considered by almost everyone, I think we have to say, in this hall as the next best. And he thought the inadequacy was well-lit. Then is my first question: what does the representative, Höglund, think is the best relationship we could have with the EU? Is there no EEA Agreement, or is it membership? The second question relates to the search for a more overarching EEA strategy and expressed the need to modernise the EEA Agreement. What is the content of the concept of modernisation for the representative? What parts of the EEA Agreement are they going to modify?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e312	My best option is an upgraded EEA agreement. My personal alternative is not EU membership, and it is not back to any kind of free trade agreement. I believe in broad cooperation with the EU, but I am not a member of membership. That's my personal attitude. With regard to modernisation, there is a legal and technical process that needs to be done to update the Treaty basis that the EU is now operating on. It will give us a legal balance in meeting with the EU. But it is also a political challenge given that we now have the Treaty of Lisbon, with an increasingly important European Parliament – we know that institutional cooperation between the EEA/EFTA countries and the EU is not consistent. There is a need for a thorough review here. I also think there is a need to look at the areas that are excluded from the EEA Agreement today, to see if it can be possible to obtain a broader cooperation here than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e319	The representative, Høglund, was exemplary in what was the second best. He was also quite clear on what was the best alternative for the representative Højlund. But the representative, Mr Höglund, speaks on behalf of a party and is the main figure for a party in this Chamber in foreign affairs. So my question is, What is the best option for the Progress Party in relation to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e324	As the representative very well knows, we have full freedom in the Progress Party to mean what we want on this issue, and so do we. We have different positions on the issue, and we want respect for the referendum that might come to settle such a question. So for me to talk on behalf of the whole party or all of its members about what is our common point of view here, would be going far beyond our party program on these issues. I have explained my personal position, which is a variant, preferably an improved version, of today's EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e329	I would like to begin by welcoming the representative Höglund to the club of us who have the EEA Agreement, preferably upgraded, as the best option. That club is not as small as the representative of Høglund wants it to. And that's the good reason for that. Two successive governments have now established that the EEA Agreement has served Norway well. There is a reason why Norwegian business is well satisfied with the overall functioning of this agreement. I think we who represent the people here in the hall, should be careful to talk down such an important agreement for Norway. My question to the representative, Mr Höglund, is whether at least we, as friends of the EEA Agreement, should agree that we should safeguard its status, strengthen it and strengthen its authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e336	The meaning of my post was to focus on the EEA Agreement, have a government that realizes that it is the agreement that is our anchored to the EU, and probably will be it for many years to come, and make the best of it. But many years have passed since the agreement was signed. A lot has happened in the EU. In order to safeguard Norway’s interests in an even better way, we need to adapt the legislation to the changes that have occurred. It is precisely on the basis of the recognition that it is the EEA that is likely to be and will be our main basis for cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e344	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good deal. He was in both the economic situation and the Lisbon strategy and had a wide range of issues in the loop, and how to work with Norwegian influence in the EU. Perhaps the attendance in different parts of this room can be a good illustration of how the Norwegian European debate stands today. There are no journalists – excuse me, a journalist, some politicians and a very numerous audience from all around the world. It is a challenge to raise the Norwegian debate on European policy and influence to a greater extent in public space and in the political environment. But I'm going to use the rest of my posts for what's going on in Europe. The causes of the job and debt crisis under seal are many. They have a background in the financial crisis, the economic decline and different conditions in some countries. But when it comes to the handling and the possibility of doing so, it is directly linked to the economic and monetary union and the euro. For the Greek tragedy that happens these days, unfortunately, there is a warning example of what is the problem of the euro and monetary union. A country that needs an economic policy other than the rest of the members of the Union has denied the possibility of taking advantage of monetary policy to get out of the crisis, and is instead forced to sort everything out through fiscal policy. Had Greece still had dragons, the price of dragons would fall and debt would be easier to bear for the country – like Icelandic crowns, UK pounds and US dollars, to identify other countries with significant debt problems. Instead, Greece is left with a narrow-down package that has hardly been seen by any country. It is not surprising that it creates strong reactions and a difficult situation for the Greeks most, which, because of it, may be the result of a financial crisis more severe than the inhabitants of any other country. Let me clarify: the problem had not been gone for that reason, but the handling had been easier. Other problems had also been there, such as inflation, but fiscal policy had not taken the noise entirely alone. This is also a lesson that, in my view, should pour cold water over the years on some of the strongest euro followers in Norway. Norway is also a country in need of an economic policy different from the rest of Europe. While the euro area now has a unemployment rate of around 10 pst, Norway has a unemployment rate of 3.5 pst. - Unbelievably good. It also creates a need for a different stimulus in economic policy. Today, we are dealing with it in a combination of monetary and financial policies, where monetary policy takes a great deal of responsibility for the short-term stabilisation of the Norwegian economy. If we were a member of monetary union, we could not have had an interest rate that is roughly a percentage point above the euro area. Then we had to tighten significantly more on the use of money in the state budget, which had led to a strong tightening for the household. It is very likely that this would lead to more unemployment than today. Then I asked the representative Eriksen Soreide a question instead that I did not get an answer to. I'm taking it up again now, because I have more speaking time left. I do, too, because I have been involved in some EU debates over the last few years with Right-wing people. The continuous tone has been quite strongly criticised by the Government, especially the Workers' Party, for being passive, locked and bound, and if a escape to the Right, there shall be other balls. So I would like confirmation: does Right want EU membership and soon membership of economic and monetary union? How does the Right – if they think it will mean an enhancement of our ability to keep unemployment down and pursue a good policy in Norway – mean that Norwegian membership of EMU and being part of the euro will increase our ability to do so? I have now systematically gone through what I think is the arguments against it – that it would make it harder to deal with the situation. I'd like to right how Right thinks it could improve our economic situation, if they think it would be an advantage that we were an EMU member.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e359	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e362	I have read the SV's work programme for 2009–2013 and attached myself to Chapter 11.9, where SV goes in to cancel the EEA Agreement. Now most of Norwegian exports go to the EU. How much loss of income will it have for Norway as a nation and for the state if you cancel the EEA Agreement, I don't know, but maybe the Socialist Left Party itself has calculated a little: how many hundreds of thousands are going to lose the job if SV gets what they want, and you cancel the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e367	First: I found it positive that the representative Myhre les SV's work programme. He may continue to do so, even parts other than chapter 11.9. It says that SV wants to have a different form of association with the EU and has it as its starting point. Switzerland, for example, has other agreements with the EU. Norway has had it before. None of the pieces have led to a mass-working solution. On the contrary, Norway has a much lower unemployment rate today, and has had it for a long time than that of the euro area and the EU. So now it's in this room and in many contexts a broader review of the EEA Agreement is called for. Therefore, the Government has started an assessment of the Norwegian interest in its functioning in relation to the EU. I noticed that the representative of Höglund, from the same party as the representative of Myhre, had just expressed an interest in seeing whether adjustments and amendments to the EEA Agreement were necessary. I think looking at it has wide support far into the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e375	Now I'm not here to answer questions, but to ask them. However, I would say that I believe that the representative Solhjell is wrong about important parts of his production of the situation in the EU now. If all EU countries had their own currency, the consequences after the financial crisis would have been a destructive spiral of devaluations, trade barriers and protectionism. We should be glad that the European countries actually recognise that no one is worthy of the loss of their neighbour and that they are not enough of themselves in this difficult economic situation. So the representative, Solhjell, knows very well that we are in favour of membership, so I'm not going to go into it, but I want to ask him the following question: Do you agree with the representative, Hansen, that you would like to have discussed the data storage directive before it was adopted? And if the answer is yes, does it mean that we should be EU members? And if the answer is no, is the representative really not so much interested in influencing the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e382	I almost didn't agree with all the questions at the end, but to begin with, does it mean that, in that case, the representative Astrup believes that those countries that are not part of euro-cooperation, and that have had major problems, have been in a destructive spiral of protectionism and devaluations? That's not what happened. Norway and other countries have cooperated with others on the handling, but we have had greater freedom of action in our own handling because we can use the full range of monetary and financial policies. It's made it easier. Closer international cooperation on how to prevent financial crises, how to regulate financial markets and how to ensure better stability is also important. A single currency would have made Norway harder, and it turns out to be making it harder for those countries that are currently struggling within the euro area. So to the Data Storage Directive. We have had the opportunity to influence and promote our vision in advance. There has been a wide-ranging debate in the European Union on this, and there is still a wide-ranging debate in EU countries on it. There is a number of countries that have not ratified this directive. Commissioners have started an evaluation, a review, of it. So it's not like the ability to influence is over. On the contrary, a Norwegian no to the Data Storage Directive will be noticed in Europe, it will have a significant impact on the debate that is taking place in many countries, and in the wider EU process. So it'll be important if right here says no now and follows the SV and the other party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e389	It is tempting to point out to the last exchange of lines that it is difficult to see the relationship between affecting a process even earlier and not yet having taken a stand on the matter that will be affected. But my line goes, of course, to the representative, Mr Solhjell, whom I think was an excellent defender of being outside the Union, and of being outside the economic and monetary union in particular. Does the representative, Mr Solhjell, agree that one of the reasons Norway is doing so well is that the EEA Agreement EN in its work programme says they will resign?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e396	Let me borrow by saying that the Government will continue the EEA Agreement, which I am sure the representative is aware of, and we are a few on both the Soria Moria I and Soria Moria II platforms. We are also some of those who want us to have a broader evaluation, go into it, and my impression is that both the Christian People's Party and the representative of the Højbrätten agree on it. I believe that it is possible to have quite a number of forms of association with the EU as long as a comprehensive free trade in goods and services, close economic contacts and economic openness is ensured. It has been shown that we could have had another trade agreement in the past. Switzerland has it without the EEA Agreement, and we have it with the EEA Agreement. I think that there is a basis for saying that we can have a broader debate on how to sort out our relationship with the EU, outside the EU, which nevertheless ensures Norwegian economy and employment in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e406	Every day, there will be new updates on the euro crisis. The images we've seen from Greece in the last few days have been scary, and it shows what explosive power we're now facing. The availability of services in a number of EU countries is enormously high. Other young people in Spain are out of work, and savings measures that really defy ordinary people are adopted. It is demanding choices that our colleagues in other European countries now make. The political consequences of these elections and the consequences of today's crisis over time are difficult to see clearly now. Last week Professor Isachsen said at BI that Greece should once again use dragons to have the opportunity to devalue. A recent report from the European Central Bank says that this is possible, but that it also leads to the withdrawal of the EU. Euro and EU membership are two sides of the same coin. Fortunately, no member debate in Norway now exists, but one of several clear differences between EEA membership and EU membership is that Norway would then lose the opportunity to have a national monetary policy. In the short term, the EU and the IMF have put together a crisis package that can keep Greece liquid – at least for a while. But the conditions are very harsh, and it will hit people hard. Here at home is the work of all a known slogan. In order to fight unemployment, regulation through devaluations has been one of the instruments we have. Euroland has given up the opportunity, with the consequences it has. The financial crisis in 2009 was met with packages of measures to keep unemployment down. One consequence of the packages is that almost no country complies with the EU’s own Stability Pact. What is the long-term political consequence of this? Analysts with no major political ties have provided a range of analyses. One of the major agencies, the US financial and banking group Citigroup, said this way last week: Europe must now decide whether to become a United States of Europe with a common economic policy or whether to be a patchwork of independent states. Only a United States of Europe will be able to save the euro. Now we've never had the big bank and financial group in the Center Party as our leading advisors. The financial crisis has also shown that blind belief in analysts is not the way to insight. But it is interesting to see that the perception that a monetary union without a common economy does not belong together is now far beyond the traditional EU-critical environments. More and more people see that there is no connection between the map and the terrain. It is difficult to predict the outcome – for the euro and for the EU – of the situation we are now facing, but there are two main scenarios that crystallize. One is greater integration and federal management systems. The second is less integration – that you have different speeds in different countries, that you go towards listening more to people, and that there is more national autonomy. The reactions to the proposals for greater integration are strong. Proposals have been made for the EU to introduce a kind of joint prior approval of national budgets. Proposals have been made for direct taxation of citizens. Larger EU budgets have been proposed in order to achieve federal capacity. And there have been proposals for a European money fund and a separate economic council. The opposition to all the proposals for greater integration has been very strong. At the heart of the EU's problems and throughout the Lisbon process is the lack of democratic anchoring. French, Dutch and Irish were not heard. The Lisbon process has created a Union of its own people. The EU elite is in a formidable dilemma, entrenched between the democratic traditions of the nation states and the lack of democratic anchoring of the EU system. How the EU tackles its economy in the coming years will also have consequences for Norway. A decline in demand and wage levels in Europe will affect the development of the entire Norwegian labour market and will affect the Norwegian wage level. If we are to keep employment up, the real wage growth in Norway cannot be seen independently of developments in Europe. We have to show moderation in our domestic growth. We have the freedom of action to make independent choices – adapted to our national challenges. The euro area countries do not have the same freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e442	I have also read the Central Party’s major election program, and I attached myself to 20.8.1. It says, ‘We want to terminate the EEA Agreement.’ And then the question is, to what extent and to what extent can we say that the central party's position on the EEA Agreement has been a success in government cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e449	The EU position of the Central Party has been implemented in such a way that we now have a government that has a government statement that says that you do not want to apply for EU membership. Then we're going to go further into the EEA Agreement. So there is a compromise between three parties that have three different views on our relationship with the EU. Someone wants to join – two parties don't want to join. We have found an intermediary, where we pass on the EEA Agreement and that the membership debate is not up to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e454	It must be frustrating to be from a party that believes so much about the development of the European Union, but at the same time is so determined not to be involved and influence it. State Council Kristin Halvorsen stated in connection with the Deposit Guarantee Directive – as it became known by chance to Norwegian authorities – that we should use all available instruments to influence, so that we could get exemptions and adjustments. Other countries — let me give you a concrete example: Denmark — have succeeded in making adjustments, which Norway has not yet had. And then I ask the representative: What are the instruments that Denmark has that Norway does not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e462	One of the most surprising things about today's debate is that representatives of the two largest yes parties, and in particular the representative from the Right, almost do not spend time talking about the EU's development and Europe's development at all, but spend time criticising the bureaucratic debate between corruption and government. The representative and the chairperson of the Committee do not spend time talking about the euro and the major challenges we face in Europe. I am not pleased with that crisis mood, but I think it is quite natural when we have an EU/EEA debate in Norway, in the Norwegian big business, that we are discussing what is actually happening and not discussing the game internally in the committee, the game between big business and government, but that we are discussing the political realities that are now taking place in Europe. It is a crisis in the EU system, it is a crisis in the Eurosystem. Then we'll have to discuss it. It affects everyone, it affects Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e467	The reason for my reply is that I want to give the representative Battle Violence Vedum the opportunity to answer the question from the representative Myhre, so that this time he can answer it and do not circumvent it. The question from the representative Myhre was: to what extent has the Central Party been able to take its position in the Government to terminate the EEA Agreement? Because that's part of the Central Party's policy. And my further question to Mr Vedum's representative is the following: What will we replace the agreement with? Would you like to look into the system that Switzerland has, to negotiate agreements in each area of cooperation — between the EU and Norway, if necessary? As for that thread, we receive advice that at least we should not go into that field, because it will be a reasonable chaotic system. What is it that the Centre Party will replace the EEA Agreement with?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e474	I have had the pleasure of sitting in committee with the representative Nesvik for one year, and have learned that the representative Nesvik had learned to read, and the representative has probably also read the government statement. It states that we should not apply for EU membership, but we should still be in the EEA. And it's started in an EEA investigation with a background to what came out in the negotiations. So that's what the answer is. The Labour Party wants to apply for membership, the Centre Party and SV do not want to apply for membership. The compromise is that a solution is found in the middle, and that is to continue with the EEA Agreement and to start an evaluation of the EEA Agreement. So the difference between the Progress Party and the Center Party is that in the Center Party we have a position on the question, we're clear. What's interesting is to know what Harald T. Nesvik thinks in the EU case – is he in favour or against? But we're clear – we want to cancel the EEA Agreement if we had the opportunity to do so, but we rule with two other parties and have a compromise, and there it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e486	Norway makes a significant contribution to cushioning and poverty reduction through our contribution to the EEA funding mechanism. It brings Norway to the forefront among the solidarity nations in Europe. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he emphasises that we should, with good reason, show such co-responsibility for raising environmental standards and promoting more balanced economic and social development between the countries. But our international solidarity will never be real without an even stronger commitment there for the world's poorest countries, developing countries. Europe must never become itself enough. Unfortunately, the problems in the euro zone can now push the EU in such a direction. You have to be on guard against that. There is a paradox in the fact that the EU has commendably designated 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty, while euro adjustments and mitigation measures lead to major problems for parts of the population. Following the accession of the Baltic countries to the monetary union, the proportion of the poor in these countries – measured by the EU’s own poverty criteria – has increased from 19 to 26 p.p. Now the crisis focus has moved south – not towards Africa, but towards Greece. The state financial crisis in Greece and the heavy drawdowns on crisis loans from the other countries of the monetary union show that the euro is now facing major challenges. Today’s crisis situation shows that previous claims that the single currency has removed speculation and created stability have its obvious limitations — to put it diplomatically. The situation shows in practice the weakness of monetary union that many have long pointed out, that it is risky to sea one single currency without the Union having large enough federal budgets to correct regional imbalances and crises that may arise. However, this is a self-selected weakness in the EU, for increased revenue to the Union institutions at the expense of the national authorities is a contradiction between Member States. We have hardly seen the last act of crisis management in monetary union. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was very brief in his presentation on the Data Storage Directive, and said that the Government is waiting to decide. Nor does it seem that the Government has taken a decision as to whether the Directive is actually relevant to the EEA. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessment of it. The Christian People's Party does not support the Data Storage Directive. We believe that this is too strongly affecting privacy, and we believe that the police need for access to the necessary data in the fight against crime can be ensured without our commitment to the directive. The Norwegian consultation round on the Data Storage Directive thus shows that the vast majority – 70 of the hearing bodies – are opposed to the Directive or critical to it. Only 18 of them are for. All bodies which have a professional position in relation to privacy go against the Directive. I believe that the information society is very positive in itself, but it is not supposed to monitor citizens for no reason. It must be a fundamental principle. The Christian People's Party does not want a society in which we are all suspected until the opposite is proven. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also listed more relevant directives than those relating to data storage. Another is the Directive on bank deposits guarantees. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, the new EU directive will mean a halving of that 2 million limit. kr in deposits for which the Norwegian scheme guarantees bank customers. I am pleased that the Government, despite the lack of hearing in the EU, continues to work to ensure that Norway does not make Norwegian banking customers more insecure. There is no need for harmonisation to be made worse. A third case concerns the EU Regulation prohibiting the placing on the market of cell products in the EU from 20 August this year. The regulation is poorly justified, because – as the foreign minister said – none of the cell populations we hunt are threatened. The government has the Christian People's Party's support if it runs this case for dispute resolution in the WTO. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like the EU to concentrate more on the need to improve the quality of legislation, and to refrain from unnecessary regulation of poorly-founded national states and legislation, which means lowering levels for many countries. I hope that there is a message the Government will communicate in its further contact with the EU on these matters. Finally, let me make a comment on the small debate we have had here in the Chamber today on our form of association. It shows that for the large majority in the hall, the old word is that when you don't get the one you love, you have to love the one you get. The Christian People's Party has got the one we love, in this context. From our point of view, the message to those who have not been given the one they love is to love the one they get – because it is strong in our national interest. This does not mean that we should pave the way for the debate on constantly developing our relationship with Europe, improving the form of association we have, and want to have timely debates on other forms of association. But we have a national responsibility to make sure that the form of connection we have works well, and then the solid backing in Stortinget needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e501	The president was so excited about the outcome of the "love" discussion that he almost forgot to club. But at least it's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e506	As far as my memory is concerned today, the first Bondevik government worked very actively to ensure that the former Eastern European countries – among others. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia — should have full membership of the EU as soon as possible. We gave them budget transfers to work on it, and they've become members of the EU. Then, in his intervention, he was now involved in this transfer to the euro area countries, and in particular the twelve countries that need assistance to get up to a higher level – to put it that way – in terms of social cohesion. But the representative Højbråten was also involved in the distribution to the Third World. Does the representative Højbräten have a different key to Norway’s input into its EU funding mechanism vis-à-vis the 12 countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e513	Let me just confirm that, of course, we in the Christian People's Party have worked to ensure that the countries of the former Communist Eastern Europe as desired, and who chose to join the European Union in the form of membership, would have that opportunity. But some of the point from my point of view was to stress that when Norway has chosen a different line, another form of connection, it is not the exclusive, rich foreign Norway. With the EEA funding mechanism, Norway appears to be one of Europe’s most solidarity countries in contributing to economic cushioning in Europe. My point in what I said was not to propose a changed distribution key for what we contribute in the EU area, but to warn against the EU becoming self-sufficient and not contributing more jointly to the poorest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e518	I must congratulate the Christian People's Party on having received the one they love. Both I and others have learned that one does not always do so in politics. Things happen in a relationship, it develops, and it goes on for many years. I could therefore think of challenging the representative Højbräten on it, for the representative held an interesting post here earlier today about the EEA Agreement. Is it so that the Christian People's Party is well pleased with the EEA agreement as he is after quite many years of experience, or does the Christian People's Party see that there may be a need for adjustments, changes, modernisation, development – one can use the outline one will?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e525	The Christian People's Party clearly states that Norway is best served with a different form of association than a Union, and we believe that the EEA Agreement, which for all practical purposes makes us part of the internal market, has served Norway well. But we have been supportive of the dynamic phases that have been in the history of the EEA Agreement – where it has been expanded. The Veterinary Agreement and the Schengen Agreement are examples of how we have contributed to binding agreements beyond the original EEA Agreement, and that is what we still think. We must have a dynamic relationship with this form of association, but we do not want membership of the Union, like SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e534	There is a history of the fall of 1987 when the financial crisis hit the world with strong stock markets. It was ironized that while the biggest falls were, the discussion inside the main hall was whether it should be allowed to advertise Pusur on the school material for children. It was an expression that you didn't discuss what was really the central thing that day, but themes of a little less importance. I am using this entrance because the day after the German Chancellor has stood on the platform of the German Bundestag and said that Europe's future is at stake, we have heard a speech by the head of the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Committee who has not mentioned the crisis in Europe in one word – not in one word! In the opposition's intervention in this debate, only the representative Højbräten has assumed that something is happening out there now. The purpose of the EU and EEA declarations that came as part of St.melding. No 23 for 2005–06 was that we should focus on trends in Europe, and then we should focus on EU and EEA issues. That balance I've been looking for. I have also wanted to highlight the economic crisis both in the foreign policy presentation and in this presentation. It is characterised as descriptively analytical by the representative Eriksen Soreide. It's her right to say that, but I think it's striking at a time when things are so fundamental in Europe, which after her analysis should lead to us thinking: what are the consequences for Norway? What is the significance of what is now happening to Norway, when such a sober observer and player as the German Chancellor says Europe's future is at stake? I also believe that this is an issue that is as important as a dedicated debate on the EU comitology structure, which I perceive as taking up the chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It's an important question, I mentioned it in my presentation, but it's a contrast to what's happening now. What I also get the impression from the Right-wing Speakers, and in particular I have some understanding and sympathy for it, is an intense desire for Norway to be a member of the European Union. When we're not, it's like we're going to act in some kind of way of life as a shadow member. I believe that we have to live with the fact that there is a difference between the Swedish Parliament's treatment of EU matters and the Norwegian Storking, the Swedish Government's preparation for the weekly meetings in Brussels and the Norwegian Government's preparation for its meetings. We inform the Storting thoroughly before it meets in the EEA Committee and Committee in Brussels, which is the week. Sweden is reporting on a continuous basis to Parliament regarding the ongoing decision-making process in the EU. We are not a member of the European Union, and I think we need to find a pragmatic form of how we keep up to date, how we deal with matters that matter to us. So I would like to agree with Mr Hansen on the European Commission's work programme. We study the work programme, we come to Stortinget with our assessment of matters that become important to us there, but the Stortinget is free to download and evaluate what it means. In fact, I do not see it as part of the government's obligation to provide a full analysis of the European Commission's work programme a few weeks after it has been submitted. But we go into it, and I can promise that we will come back to the matter. My second comment goes to the representative, Mr Höglund, who in his contribution goes in order for us to have a new EEA agreement. I can't get a hold of the problem. I would warn against the fact that it is said from the Spokesman's Chair, and from a leading representative, that the EEA Agreement has expired. I have not heard it from any representative in the European Union. It is such that it is possible to cancel an agreement, one party can do so. I think it is very negative to send signals from Stortinget's second largest party that this agreement has expired. The representative spent time sending unclear signals from Norway. This is an unclear signal. I am among those who defend the EEA Agreement. I can't say that I have a love relationship with it, I don't love it, but it's an agreement I defend every day, and that we work for because it's important to Norway. And so it is, as the representative Højbrätten very well said, that there is an ongoing update of the EEA Agreement with legislation and with arrangements – Schengen, justice, a wide range of areas. If there is a need to make changes to the agreement, we will of course be open to do the same. But I do not see that there is anything in the Lisbon Agreement that immediately says that this agreement has expired. I believe that the Data Storage Directive is likely to be EEA-relevant. We're going to come back to that thoroughly. I believe that if the consultation shows that it does not go beyond essential and important personal concerns and security, crime prevention dimensions of the directive are significant. But we're going back to this in thorough debates, and we also have time to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e556	In order to clarify a manifest misunderstanding: I did not say that the EEA Agreement had expired, but the strategy that we should not lift the agreement and discuss the material content of the agreement – that strategy – has expired, given the range that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has set down to look at experience with the EEA Agreement. And then there's a big message as a result of this. That was explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs realize that the big message will take care of and try to adapt the EEA Agreement to the institutional changes and to the legal text changes? It is true that there are adjustments, that there are changes, but the structure, the framework, is the same, and there is a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e563	After all, the material content of the agreement is all the legal acts we adopt. Then the agreement has some small formulations about institutional ties and the way we work together. If this sample comes with good suggestions and analyses that say we should consider it, then of course we will do it, as an important input. The Government shall deliver a message to Stortinget. I am constantly open that we must make this agreement as good as possible in a pragmatic way. I am of the opinion that in today's situation and in the light of its purpose, the agreement and its mechanisms take good care of Norway's interests. There is a meeting of EEA consultations in Brussels this week. Then we will also have an opportunity, a little bit into the Treaty of Lisbon, to take the temperature of how both the Commission and the Presidency view the agreement. But we will always be on it, in order for it to work as best as possible according to purpose, that we have to make the adjustments that are necessary. That approach, if that is what the representative thinks, I can't see that it has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e570	I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that it will be small to discuss important EU and EEA issues rather than having a general European debate. He's about it. The purpose of these presentations was not that we should have a general European debate, but that we should just be able to address important EU and EEA issues, and that this was the opportunity of the Stortinge to get into the open with these issues. Then the Foreign Minister would like to think it is small, but I think it is important if the Stortinget and also the Government are to pursue an active European policy. Let me therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said in his statement that the new European External Action Service will have its own Norwegian desk. What impact does the Minister of Foreign Affairs have on understanding the specific position of the EEA countries and the ability to clarify EEA relevance early, now that the pillar structure is disappearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e577	The size has all the possibilities. The size is all right, and they can discuss all the things they want. I believe that the statement must strike a balance between mentioning what is happening in Europe that has a direct and indirect impact on Norway and specific issues. That statement shall be of a certain duration but no longer than that. What would a Norwegian-Dessian mean? Well, time will show it. I think we need to be interested in the fact that the Commission has both a Norway focus – because Norway is the leading party on the EEA side, EFTA, which matters to the EU – and that they have knowledge and up-to-date understanding of what is happening in Norway. Then we have to make sure that the EEAS they set up, Lady Ashton's office, also makes the EEA work. However, the underlying issue in the representative Astrup’s question is that the EEA is almost a loot for the EU. It's not my experience. We are important partners for the European Union. They deserve that cooperation to work well. It's in the bottom. It is little unintelligible from the EU to say that this should be so very strange. As long as it serves the interests of the European Union, as I believe it does, the agreement is quite solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e586	Stock exchanges fall both in Europe and far beyond the borders of Europe. There is concern in Greece, and four countries face major debt challenges. It is said that Eurocooperation can get a serious break, and Angela Merkel, who also mentioned the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said yesterday that Europe’s future is at stake. What are the consequences of this unrest on Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e591	I think there's two sides to that question. One is that of course we are very dependent on what is happening on the economic side of Europe: instability, the turmoil of financial markets. It has direct and indirect consequences for us. We heard the governor yesterday, who set the interest rate up, but thought it was a difficult decision in the light of what happened. That's the one. But as I have said in my two presentations this spring, how Europe is going is of importance to Norway. And I think it's the way that even if we're not a member, it gets, if it goes very badly with the EU countries and the EU as a cooperation, at my discretion, negative consequences for Norway. So I think Norway is going to have an alert look at this and make sure to be a constructive partner for both the EU countries and the EU at this difficult time. We are contributors, as the representative Højbräten said, through the financial instruments and in a wide range of areas – energy supply, etc. But I also think we should follow the political developments on the institutional side, because we're not done with this story, and as the Chancellor says, it's dramatic averaging it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e598	After a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his relationship with the EEA Agreement, it has to be defined as platonic. But I want to say that when the head is in it to the extent that it is, as far as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned, we also get to live with the fact that the heart is not in it. I think the Foreign Minister is an excellent defender of Norway's interests in relation to the relationship with the EEA Agreement. My question comes in the extension of a debate we had earlier this week on Norway's foreign representation, possible Nordic cooperation and the Stoltenberg report's recommendations. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs, along with Minister for Foreign Affairs Carl Bildt and his other Nordic colleagues, spoke at the Nordic Council's session in Stockholm this autumn, the Foreign Minister asked that this debate be driven into the national parliaments. I'll do it with it. I ask if the Foreign Minister will take a new step to strengthen Nordic cooperation towards the EU and influence the EU's political processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e605	Platonic conditions can be quite useful, and it is entirely satisfactory for me to have it in this matter. Nordic co-ordinated cooperation is – as the representative will know from debates in the Nordic Council, but also from debates between Nordic governments – often more demanding than it looks on the surface, because the Nordic EU countries are not in total a unified entity, and because encouraging from Norwegian side to joint Nordic action on EU issues is not so simple, even if we look at organisational issues, even if we address our views, and even if our Nordic partner countries in the EU are our best sources of information, and we should appreciate that. But, as was said in a previous post, the decisions taken by the 27 EU countries have a long way to go, taking care of Norwegian interests. That's because the Nordic countries are promoting a vision that is in many ways consistent with ours. That is why I believe that the strategy for parliaments and governments is to hold close discussions with the Nordic countries on matters, so that they actually present a vision that is also influenced by ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e614	The Minister for Foreign Affairs criticised me in his speech because I took the boundless freedom to go back to what was the starting point of the half-yearly EU and EEA declarations, namely that the Stortinge in the open hall should have the opportunity to discuss important EU and EEA issues and how they affect Norway. It is quite clear that the debate on the financial crisis and the general crisis in Europe and in many of the EU countries is a long-running discussion, which I discussed in the media not later than Tuesday and yesterday afternoon. And that's one thing that we often discuss in this room. Last time we had a thorough and good review of the debate on the general foreign policy statement on 26 March. That doesn't mean it's uninteresting to discuss. The question is just why the government parties are so uncomfortable with the fact that what is now wanted is discussed: how Norway can best take care of its interests and its positions in relation to the EU is discussed in an open-room. Why is it hard to discuss it in the open hall? Why is it difficult to use the statement for which the statement should be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e624	Here we're going to live with that there's an interpretation difference. I mentioned many important EU and EEA issues in my presentation. I mentioned it in my foreign policy statement, and I'm willing to talk about it here. There is no boundless freedom at the root of it, it is completely natural. But I also believe that we need to see these issues in relation to what is happening in Europe. And it's strange -- I let myself say, it wasn't a limitless assessment, in and of itself -- that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee doesn't point it out when we have a debate on EU and EEA matters in this room. Then there'll always be a discussion about which things you're taking, and which things you're not taking with you. I believe that in the list I mentioned, I addressed matters that are not very complicated, and matters that are complicated. I also had a very thorough analysis of Norwegian influence possibilities and restrictions under the Lisbon Agreement, and thus, at my discretion, provided a good basis for the debate here in the Chamber. That the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee was not satisfied with that, I get to live with it – at least it was well intended and a good try.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e631	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e634	Norway is a small country in a cohesive Europe. Globalization is very positive for us. We are one of the world's winners because of globalisation, not despite globalisation. It has given us access to important markets for the export industry, it has given us cheap imports of consumer goods and access to labour through membership in the EEA territory, to mention something. The world is in a serious financial crisis. The financial crisis is definitely affecting Europe. The need for stronger control is evident, including in the EU. That is why the proposal from the European Commission to establish a new supervisory structure, which is very positive, is a proposal that will now be discussed in Parliament. The debt crisis is raging in Europe. It will lead to a failure in demand. And it can hit Norway – 80 pst. of our exports are just going to Europe. The EU is our home market. A long period of labyrinth growth can also lead to a long period of high unemployment in the EU. And I would like to say that I think it is very alarming that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee does not affect this as a backbone in its contribution, when we are here to discuss important EU and EEA issues. But Europe's unemployment rate is variable, it varies greatly between countries. In Norway we now have an unemployment rate of 3.8 pst. The lowest unemployment rate in the EU area is 4.1 pst for the Netherlands. The highest one is Latvia, with 22.3 pst. This shows that we may sometimes need to differentiate when we talk about Europe, when we talk about the European Union. There's a lot of things at once. We have done quite well in Norway. We have had the political will to put in place the right actions at the right time. In addition, we have had 'peeng on book', as the Minister of Finance would have said, if he had been here today. We have saved in good time to use in bad times. And fortunately, it is only the Progress Party here in this Chamber that does not agree with that principle. But the Norwegian export industry is very exposed. Increasing prices of export products have contributed very positively to industrial performance over several years. This trend was reversed with the financial crisis and the international setback. At the same time, demand has been weakened. And if demand fails in our domestic market Europe, we may have problems selling our industrial products. A stronger krone and an abnormally high interest rate in Norway versus in other countries can reinforce the problems of industry — and so if the EEA area does not get back on track. Europe has a significant potential. The geography, the economy, the technology and the fact that there are strong, democratic states that are able to deal with difficult political issues together, will allow Europe to have a very central place if we take it, and if we go on the train before the train leaves the platform. Together with countries such as the United States, Russia, Brazil, China and India, the EU should have a central place around the central tables of the world. Although the EU has always had defence and security policies as a kind of unwritten support element – in fact, the Second World War and the creation of a structure in Europe that prevented further world wars, which was the history of the EU, defence and security policies through the Treaty of Lisbon have been enshrined in what is called the Common Security and Defence Policy of the EU. Norway's relationship with the EU's common security and defence policy gives us the opportunity to influence, which we must use. Although we are not members, we cannot stand outside security and defence cooperation that now includes most of our Nordic and other European co-operation countries. For example, Norway has: involved in more than one EU operation than any other third country. The frigate, of which we are all certainly proud, who has been in the Gulf of Aden, is perhaps the very best example. We also have our own cooperation agreement with the European Defence Agency as the only non-member. It gives us the opportunity to influence both research and development carried out within the framework of the EDA, to which it is abbreviated. With a competent and outlying defence industry, we actually have a number of offensive interests within the scope of the EDA. I want to use this opportunity in this debate to stress that this work is very important for Norway, but also for Norwegian jobs in the defence industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e655	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. He was in the presentation in many different areas, but I would also like to point out that, in his presentation, he largely took into account the historical – where we have been and what we have done – and very little came into play on the possibilities that lie within the EEA Agreement, on whether we use them, and what is the objective of moving on. I think it's important that we get started early. Our goal must be to get as early as possible into the process of EEA cooperation, so that we can get involved and influence, instead of sitting on the outside and looking at what comes to us, and here in the house almost race to implement EEA directives so quickly that we ourselves hardly know what we have been involved in adopting in some contexts. That criticism goes not to the Government, but to ourselves in this house. Sometimes there is reason to stop – in particular the Committees – to discuss through what these EEA Directives will mean, how they will affect us and what opportunities they give us. The Treaty of Lisbon also offers us great opportunities and great challenges. But we have to see the possibilities and not just the problems. In this connection, I would like to point out, among other things: I, Mr Else-May Botten and Mr Svein Roald Hansen from the Workers' Party were present in the IMCO Committee at the hearing of the European Parliament on the Services Directive and its implementation. In fact, we were given the opportunity to present the Norwegian position on this matter. Let's hope that there's more of these possibilities, because it actually shows that we can get involved in the processes, and that's important, instead of just standing on the outside and talking about the history. Perhaps the most important thing in the future, both in terms of the EEA Agreement and our relationship with the EU system, is to work towards a development of protectionism that I think can and will come. The fact that some countries want to protect their own business in a situation where the financial crisis has overcome one, and major internal challenges in their own country, can easily lead to the possibility of initiating protectionist measures. This must be ensured that this does not happen, at almost any price, because it could affect our trade with the EU for a long, long time in the future. If we're going to have credibility in this field, we don't have to put ourselves in a situation where we're the ones who care about this. Although agricultural products are excluded from the EEA Agreement, it is obvious that some areas could be affected by some of the interventions we are taking in that sector. I will take one example of this: it has now come to light that, since customs duties – i.e. import protection related to milk and milk products in Norway – have now become so low in relation to the sky-high Norwegian price level, imports of milk and milk products from our neighbouring countries can actually pay off. And the answer to some then is that we have to increase the customs duty. This is an incredibly dangerous way to go! What, then, is the danger in the next round when we are going to export fish ourselves, and the EU is our remote area? If we use this argument to protect our products, there's every reason to believe that we're in a round dance that none of us want to get into. In the last few minutes, I want to answer a couple of representatives. First of all, Mr Vedum's representative: the Advance Party is in favour of the EEA Agreement. We are in charge of the EEA Agreement, and if the representative, Mr Vedum, needs reading help, I will provide it, because it is the policy of the Progress Party. Secondly, the representative Gustavsen claimed in his statement that the Progress Party was not interested in devoting capital to future generations. This is directly wrong. In the context of the current year's budget, the Progress Party actually went in to spend less money than the Government, just to counteract any interest rate increase, and we've just received an interest rate increase. And further, it makes sense to invest capital in transport instead of letting the transport sector fall due. It's more expensive to take it back in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e676	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation and thank you for this opportunity to discuss important EU and EEA matters with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in an open hall. We appreciate that. In time, the EU has evolved into an important level of administration for Norwegian social and economic actors. The Foreign Minister's statement underpins this picture. Therefore, it is all the more important that the Government, but also the Stortinget, intervene early in the European decision-making process so that Norwegian positions can be promoted and Norwegian interests taken into account. Today, the role of the Storting is very limited in this work, and most Norwegian actors consider the Storting to be a small relevant arena for European policy despite the increasing relevance of European policy to domestic policy. Better then to go straight to Brussels, is reversed. I am sure that the Foreign Minister and I agree that this situation creates a democratic deficit. The question is whether the six-monthly statements are enough to offset this deficit. In my opinion, the answer must be no. The EU strategy of the Ministry of the Environment, which can be read on the Ministry’s website, is, for example, honest about the challenges. That's what it says. ‘A prerequisite for participating and influencing the design of EU legislation is to clarify EEA relevance and develop national positions in a timely manner. However, we must recognise that in areas where there is considerable disagreement with other departments, it has been difficult to pursue an active influence policy. [[such as climate and energy, marine environment policy]] In the climate field, much of the time has gone by to reach agreement between the ministries on EEA relevance and then to negotiate with the Commission on whether or not. adaptation texts for inclusion in the EEA Agreement, after the completion of the EU decision-making process.’;» In other words, the reason Norway comes too late in the processes is largely internal disagreement within the government apparatus and the government. It might be interesting to hear if the Minister of Foreign Affairs shares the Ministry of the Environment's description of reality. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stayed at the EU climate and energy package in his presentation. It is a very important issue for Norway. This is where the framework for Norway's future environmental, energy and industrial policy is laid. The Renewables Directive, the Energy Services Directive, the Building Energy Directive and the ETS Directive, to mention some relevant directives, some of which were also mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, are crucial framework conditions for both the public and private sectors. Given the importance of the directives for Norway, it is disappointing that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so little chose to inform the Storting about where we stand, what we can expect and what elements the Government will focus on in the negotiations with the EU. This is largely a matter of how best to take care of Norwegian interests. What renewable targets Norway has to commit to will have an impact on the government’s negotiations with Sweden on green certificates. It will have an impact on energy policy, industrial policy and network policy in Norway and the rest of the world. The Quota Directive and its conditions are essential for the development of Norwegian industry. Norwegian industry is among the cleanest in the world. It is therefore essential that the EU framework conditions prevent carbon leakage from Norway to other countries around the world. The purpose of the ETS Directive must be to cut emissions, not just to move them. However, I did not get much wiser by the Foreign Minister’s statement that he explained that we are still in the negotiations on the directive adopted at the latest in the European Union. At the same time, we know that the European Union is moving on. It could therefore be interesting if the Minister for Foreign Affairs would refer to the directives that are ahead in time, which have not yet been finally decided, where we still have the opportunity to pursue an active European policy by promoting Norwegian positions at an early stage. The European Commission's 2010 work programme states that the Commission will explore the possibility of increasing the EU's greenhouse gas emission reduction targets from 20 to 30 pst. A strategy and action plan to address climate adaptation and mitigation in other EU policies and financial instruments shall be presented. A White Paper will be presented towards the end of 2010. This will lead towards 2020 in the transport sector, in infrastructure, legislation, transport decarbonisation plans, traffic management technologies, vehicle standardisations, market-based instruments and incentives. The White Paper will propose the necessary measures to achieve the objective of a common transport area in Europe, such as: shall support the EU targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: To what extent does he consider the climate component of the Commission’s work programme relevant to Norway? Can he explain the main features of Norwegian positions in this area, and not least how does the Government work to prevent the coordination problems pointed out by the Ministry of the Environment from being averted and prevent it from delaying the Norwegian impact and Norwegian implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e711	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very nice and thorough account of our relationship with Europe and the EEA. I think it's very useful that we have it. Things are happening quickly. We now see that the aftermath of the financial crisis is hitting Europe particularly hard and with great weight. The financial crisis is not only a financial crisis, it is also an economic crisis. In several countries, including our own continent, a further social and political crisis is now at risk. That's what's also out joking. Many Norwegian workers will also notice the crisis more strongly now in the coming period. We see it in particular in the yard industry and in other competitive industries. I see that Norway is still well equipped to meet these challenges, based on how we have housed our economy and the plans we have made. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said something that I think is very important: the Commission's comprehensive proposal for a new growth and employment strategy towards 2020. This strategy now adopted by the EU must also be an active participant in Norway, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved. It has an exceptional impact on us in energy policy and on our oil and gas business. It has a major impact on our environmental strategy, on fishing resources, and not least on the North. Many countries in Europe, which are now struggling economically, have had deficits over several years in their national budgets. In addition, they have borrowed a lot of money to face the setback in the world economy. We now see that the majority of EU countries, to varying degrees, have managed to counter the decline in the economy and the growing unemployment rate. Greece is an example of this, and Spain, Portugal and Ireland are very busy driving. This, and what has happened over the past few hours in Greece, is testifying to a very serious situation. It can go beyond stability, it can go beyond democracy, and it creates social unrest. We also have a responsibility here, and we also need to look at how unemployment develops. One of the most important instruments for achieving a stable policy and developing democracy in the future is to prevent the development of unemployment. We now see, as other speakers have also pointed out, that there are countries in Europe which have well over 20 p.m. unemployment, up to 40 pst. youth unemployment. How, then, does faith in the future become? It's very serious, and this is where we must also know our visitation time. I think it is very important what we also do through the EEA funding mechanism, when we now see how gross domestic product has fallen significantly in different EEA countries, and not least in Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. But the funding mechanism, which we are heavily involved in, and which we have allocated over 10 billion dollars to from 2004 to 2009, we are now entering with 257.7 million. EUR per head years until 2014 – is very important to the 12 poorest countries in the EEA territory. This will include and increase employment, stabilise the situation and provide a basis for future growth. It is very important that we are involved in the acts of solidarity within this area. But I also remember that we cannot live beyond ability. Thus, monetary and financial policies are also very important in this context. As Europe is now built together, it is important that we have a policy of solidarity in all these areas. I do not believe that we in Europe should go back to each of our currencies. What did this result in? After all, there was a solid cross-border export with inflation and unemployment. They wrote the course up and down. There was no stability, there was no predictability in it. I think it's very important that we have a common view of this issue and try to help each other in a spirit of solidarity. Finally, I would like to remind you that one should not forget that Europe today is equipped with more well-developed political cooperation networks, in contrast to, for example. The 1930s. This is precisely where the hope lies that the European countries will come together and not turn against each other, as we saw at the time. It has been shown in the past that it is in times of crisis that EU countries are taking a joint step forward. I really hope you do it now, as it draws to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e732	I will also join all the others who have thanked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentation. We all understand that there are major challenges both in the EU and in euro-cooperation, and that this also has consequences for Norway. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the beginning of his statement that EU countries had a decline in their gross domestic product of 4pst. in 2009, that the decline had affected the Baltic countries differently and that the most severe had been the Baltic countries. So the Foreign Minister said nothing more about the Baltic countries. And it was probably more than me who could imagine hearing more about the consequences for Norway by the fact that the Baltic countries are so hard to drive – if we can now fear a wave of organized crime, if we now need to strengthen our border guard team in relation to human trafficking and trafficking. We all know that poverty contributes to people looking for criminal ways to make money. Norway has had good contact and cooperation with the Baltic countries for many years, and perhaps we can now contribute even more to their home track, to talk in football terminology, instead of visiting us on the road. Emptyness of over 20 pst. is high, and maybe it's okay that we keep focus on this particular issue. As good neighbours, it is important to give our Baltic friends support in a difficult time. Once I'm on that side of Europe, I want to take a short walk into the Balkans. There is a tumultuous turmoil there, and we, as a country, have now made an excellent effort in the stabilisation of the Balkans. However, it is important that we keep an eye on what is happening, because this too can have consequences, not only for Norway, but also for the EU countries, both in the vicinity and also for EU cooperation as such. What Europe and the EU need at least now, in these difficult economic times, is that there is an upsurge in the Balkans. We, as part of a European network, should and must be aware of this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also stated that the EU has designated 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion. There may be little doubt that the EU has a formidable job to do, while more and more countries are on the list of those at risk of bankruptcy. It is good that Norway has allocated significant sums to 15 beneficiary countries, but perhaps we should also look at the results of the efforts. It is probably no secret that some of these countries are very corrupt, and therefore it may be interesting to get a status report to the Stortningen on efforts and what has been achieved. Another issue addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which included: As a result, the European Parliament will have a much more important role to play in the decisions taken. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also said that it was therefore important that Norwegian experts were present in the European Parliament. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this. But in addition, we who have worked in various international parliamentary assemblies know that dialogue between parliamentarians is very important in achieving results. I would therefore like to stress that we should perhaps be more present than today, discuss with our party groups in the European Parliament and also as the Norwegian parliamentary delegation on issues relating to Norway. And, of course, we must be present before the matter has come too far, while it is still being discussed and consulted in the committees of Parliamentary Assembly. We experts meet as parliamentarians as lobbyists everywhere, and sometimes above all a lot. Of course, we should not underestimate the usefulness of experts, nor should I say that we should, but we must also learn from the experience we have gained in other parliamentary assemblies and use it for what it is worth. We politicians speak the same language and have a much greater understanding and sensitivity if we meet a parliamentarian who wants to convey a message. So I could imagine asking if perhaps the Foreign Minister has made some reflections about it. Perhaps there should be much more frequent meetings between the European Committee and the European Parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e747	Norway is a small country in the world, we know that, and we are a small country in Europe. We are extremely dependent on having good relations and contacts with our neighbours and with other important trading partners. But we also have a tradition that we will be part of and contribute positively to the world community when we have the opportunity, and when we have something to contribute. For the Workers' Party, both these approaches are important, both in our foreign policy and in our European policy. We are committed to an active European policy; we must have a good and active relationship with the EU. That we would like to be a member of the EU is no secret. We thought that we would have both benefited from it and would have had a lot to contribute – not least we would have been able to participate in and influence decisions that are important to us. Fortunately, we got the EEA Agreement in place when we did not want to become a member. It is important to us in order to ensure a stable framework for trade with other countries in Europe and to ensure access to the internal market. Although we never have that much oil and gas, enough truth is that we depend more on the rest of Europe than Europe depends on us. It's probably just here in the high north we think Norway is the world's hub. The challenge of the EEA Agreement is that decisions are often taken in the EU – directives that we need to implement – that have direct impact on us. So far, we have probably often had a little too reckless attitude to influence these decisions, in particular we parliamentarians have been quite so absent in this process. And we can't blame the government for not coming to us often enough, we have a responsibility of our own. I agree that we in the committees can become more active, that we in the party groups can work better. But now I think we from the Storting have seen that we can take hold, that we can engage, that we can influence. On Tuesday 27 April, the Internal Market Committee of the European Parliament organised an interparliamentary conference on the implementation of the Services Directive. For the first time in EEA history, Norwegian representatives participated in the same way as European parliamentarians. From the Food Committee, Harald T. Nesvik and Else-May Botten took part, the latter representing the Norwegian contribution. Svein Roald Hansen also attended the meeting. The presence and participation of Norwegian parliamentarians in the discussion was duly noted, we even received the first post. We have to do more of this. Everyone at Stortinget should keep an eye on and engage in matters that are important to their committee. We should have been involved in the processes of the Eurovignette Directive at an early stage by the Transport Committee, which regulates the design of road charges for heavy goods vehicles above 3.5 tonnes – it is this directive that has just been put up for media, which says that we may have to change the discount schemes we have in our toll stations – or we should be on the road when the postal directive is being dealt with or when the data storage directive is being dealt with. Our role as parliamentarians must be against the European Parliament. It is a crossroads that, although it is now decided that the Storting should have representation in Brussels, most Norwegian municipalities and regions have better representation and better networks than we have. So we need to get on the road more often and influence the processes that are going on in the European Parliament. But we also need to have a preconceived attitude and working style when dealing with our exclusion. We have something to contribute beyond affecting processes already in place in the EU. We've been so lucky that we've been through the financial crisis so far in a good way compared to our friends in Europe. We have low unemployment, a little over 3 pst, while Sweden has about 10 pst. and Spain around 20 pst. Why have we done that? One explanation, of course, is that at an early stage, the government took action and put in place measures, that we are actively pursuing a countercyclical policy. But some of the explanation lies in the social model we have, the Norwegian model, with close cooperation between authorities, businesses and employees. That we have jointly managed to create a social model based on the fact that there are little differences between people, and a close social dialogue, is a model that is worth selling into other countries. I want to praise the Government for soon having an agreement with Russia on a border settlement certificate for the residents of the Kirkenes-Murmansk border area. There will be an important contribution for cooperation and development in this area. However, we also have border areas in Norway that face challenges with the European border, although this is not about the cross-border movement of people. We have areas where cross-border interaction and development are harmful due to legislation for example. customs duties and charges. Not all of the obstacles to the functioning of the EEA Agreement have been reduced. In Nord-Trøndelag we have two municipalities, Lierne and Røyrvik, together with well under 2,000 inhabitants, who cooperate with their neighbours across the border. They are now cooperating on an INTERREG project aimed at maintaining the population of the region. But the challenge is that business is having difficulty cooperating across borders. A builder cannot work on both sides of the border. It also puts an end to the charging provisions. Lierne Bakery, for example, has a large proportion of Swedish labour force for which they have to pay Swedish employers' fees. This also needs to be able to clean up when you're talking about how to build down frontier barriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e778	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good account of important EU and EEA issues. The Minister of Foreign Affairs confirms that the EU is not doing so well at the moment. Unemployment is rising, and government deficits in many countries are alarmingly high. With Poland as the only exception, all EU countries had a decline in gross domestic product in 2009. Greece is the most serious example – the state debt is the size of the Norwegian oil fund, almost EUR 300 billion. But there are many countries that are at full speed in the same direction. Let me take some numbers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own country pages. The government budget deficit in Hungary was 9.2 p.m. of gross domestic product in 2006. It was before the financial crisis. In Portugal, after many years of deficit, government debt has risen to 85pst. of gross domestic product. In Spain, unemployment has passed 20 pst. In France, the unemployment rate is 9.3 p.m., but it was 8 p.m. already in 2008, before the financial crisis. In Latvia, there was an annual economic growth of over 10 pst. for several years, at the latest in 2007. But in the same years, Latvia raised large government loans, leading to a rapid increase in government debt and high inflation. Today there are elections in the United Kingdom. Let me again refer to the Foreign Ministry's website – I quote from there: «No matter who wins the choice [[...]] Then it is Germany that now appears to be the saving angel to other EU countries. It's a pleasure, but it's not without a certain bismach. The money Germany is now borrowing must be financed by Germany itself. Germany already has a total debt of EUR 1500 billion, which is 64 pst. of gross domestic product. Let's think of Norway in a similar situation. Then we imagine a Norway that instead of having an oil fund of NOK 3000 billion would have a government debt of NOK 1 600 billion – from NOK 3000 billion to NOK 1 600 billion in negative. It's a 1 million change in wealth. kr per. the population. There's Germany. I know this might sound like black paint, but the situation is serious. I mention this because the Foreign Minister focused very much on the financial crisis and its aftermath on Tuesday. The financial crisis is likely to have a triggering and strengthening effect, but the fact is that the crisis in the EU countries has come back to many years before the financial crisis. The main reason lies in the record growth of government expenditure. Politicians promise and promise in the hope of being elected, and the state will pay. What they forget is that the so-called free public services are not at all free of charge, but must be paid mainly through the taxation of profits and revenues in the private sector. The more free well-being, the heavier the burden should be on both the competitive industry and the business world. Private sector businesses and employees need to provide sufficient income to care for themselves, and in addition pay for government salary budgets and other government budget benefits. Deficits give rise to high debt and thus increasing annual interest rates on old fun. Today's politicians use the money of the future, and yesterday's politicians used ours. The Progress Party has been warning against this for years. With ever-increasing government debt, it will go wrong sooner or later, and it has now been done in many of the EU countries. It can simply be said that the EU’s problem is that it has become a bit too much social democracy. The recipe for the EU, as the U.D. website also claims, is that it must be cut in public budgets. The extent of so-called free well-being needs to be reduced or, to put it a little differently, the social democracy factor needs to escalate a little. The government should learn from what is happening in the EU. The Norwegian State budget has risen to NOK 200 000 per year. the population. As long as we pump up oil and sell it – and then European and American drivers will be able to finance Norwegian well-being and prosperity. This is probably going well for a few more years, but the government should have a strategy here – not only in the case of the Norwegian economy, but also in relation to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e802	I see for my part the desire that the representative Peter N. Myhre will draw the consequences of his recent posts, when he will next contribute to sewing together a government budget here in the country. At present, there is reason to underline Norway’s very special economic situation. We have a government that keeps the economy in order, and that has brought us through the international financial crisis with the jobs in place. In our nearest neighbouring country, Sweden, one in ten is out of work. In the EU countries, there is an average unemployment rate of 10 p.m. and in Spain one out of five are unemployed. Youth unemployment is particularly high. Unlike every other Spanish youth, closed doors on the day he or she finished education and is ready to move out of work. I believe that this could have significant consequences for economic and social stability, in a country that has already had serious problems with the Basque minority in the north and with the ETA separatist movement. Last year the total national product of the EU countries fell by 4 pst. What was a financial crisis has evolved into a job crisis and a debt crisis of which we hardly know the scope. Greece is in reality bankrupt, and only a large-scale aid package from the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank are now preventing total chaos in the country. Yesterday, tens of thousands of demonstrators ran into the streets of the Greek capital in protest against dramatic tax increases, welfare cuts, reduced pensions and pay cuts for government employees. Three people died in riots and regular street fights between police and demonstrators. Greek democracy is now being put to a serious and hard test. Years of economic mismanagement, crime and corruption have obviously weakened the general confidence of large populations in democracy, even though the newly elected Greek government is doing what it can to maintain stability in the Greek economy. Nevertheless, the Greeks are hit hard by the debt obligations. The whole community has been put back for decades. It hasn't been very long since the colonel fell in Greece. Continuing the unrest, the cry for the strong man will again find the sound bottom in parts of the population. The situation in Italy, Portugal and Ireland is also not much better. In these countries too, the debt situation is extremely worrying. And the United Kingdom, where there are choices today, is struggling with huge debt problems. Yes, it's simply said to be surprised that three candidates today are struggling to get the opportunity to form government in this country – only the interest of the British government debt will run up to $300 billion a year. Persistently high unemployment rates, large youth groups becoming unemployed without hope of work or income, are a threat to any democracy. We've seen it before: unemployed youth who bullies the streets in pure frustration, with violence and riots as a result. This has happened in both France and the United Kingdom. Because when democracy fails, there will always be people looking for other solutions. What is now happening in Europe is a threat to euro cooperation. We're not there, but we can't click the door again and pretend we're unaffected by what's happening. When purchasing power in our main export markets decreases, we notice it quite immediately. And I remember that, even though we've been through the financial crisis without serious but we've lost 25 000 industrial jobs in the last year. Compared to the Baltic countries, Greece and other countries in southern Europe, Iceland is not so bad. The Icelandics have a hard time after their self-inflicted banking crisis. They struggle with themselves and with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, but they receive help — not least from the IMF, Norway and the Nordic neighbours. I am quite sure that the Icelandic people value Norway's leading role in this work. Iceland, despite a marked decline in living standards, has greater opportunities than many other countries to restore stability in its economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e818	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e821	Usually I have the greatest professional respect for our foreign minister. But the polemic with the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee was, to my knowledge, no enrichment of the debate. It is so its case that the Foreign Minister does not like the theme selection and composition in another post, but I think it might be a good idea to focus on your own answers when you meet the Stortinget. Nor is it natural to repeat views that have already emerged and that are fully shared. Now, when you're referred to commenting on other people's presentations, it just means that you need to focus on issues where you're critical or want to complement other perspectives. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will, in my opinion, explain to the Stortinget and not the other way around. I will allow myself to go into one point of the statement, without being able to interpret it in contrast to other parts of the statement. This is what the printed document reads on page 14, last paragraph, namely on the processing of the so-called Data Storage Directive. There we are informed that the Commission will carry out an evaluation of the Data Storage Directive with a deadline of 15 September. It shall then be submitted to the Council and the European Parliament shall then examine the evaluation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs then says that the EU’s evaluation should be taken into account in the Government’s own assessment. That's pretty interesting, and I think that's wise. In other words, the proposal to the Stortningen concerning the Data Storage Directive must know not only about the situation before 15 September, but probably also about the European Parliament after 15 September. So what I could be interested in hearing the Minister of Foreign Affairs' further deepening of is: What impact will the EU's own process have on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norway? It is quite alarming, I must say, that the EU is going to review a directive that has not yet fully entered into force in all parts of the area. I allow myself to believe that the signals on a modified directive are also related to the German Constitutional Court, which has, after all, signed the German implementing law and said that in its present form it is not compatible with constitutional data protection provisions. As far as the Norwegian process is concerned, I would like to hear the foreign minister's view on the timetable that the Government has passed. I allow myself to assume that since we are to await the European Parliament's proceedings, this will not be a question of implementation in 2010 at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e834	Last week the news came as a milestone in Norwegian history in the incomprehensible future – the part-line agreement in the Polhavet and the Barents Sea. I want to commend the Norwegian Government and the Russians for a skilled diplomatic and foreign policy craft. The Sea Court won. In the Arctic environment in the United States, they now look at this agreement with a future hope of resolving their dispute with Canada. These are important times for Norway, and it commits. We must follow up our extended responsibilities with new strength. The government's Northern Territory Project has regained momentum, and we're going to realize New Buildings in the North. We have also received further evidence in these event-rich weeks that Norway’s autonomous voice and space for action in foreign policy is emerging. Norway shall also participate in the ‘Northern Dimension’ in the future, on a level playing field with the EU, Iceland and Russia. We will further develop Barents' cooperation and work in the Arctic Council. It may have been an advantage in our negotiations with Russia that we have not had to go the other way around Brussels. The European Parliament has decided that the Arctic needs its own treaty and is a lawless area. In such a climate, the law of the sea would have been quite different from that of the Norwegian tradition, where it has been subject to a foreign policy consensus, although the Commission has also underlined the importance of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. I also hope that we can put in place a functioning border settlement certificate and that our Schengen membership will not be seen as an obstacle from the Russian side. I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs can answer where the matter stands, what is the Russians' position, and which people who are staying in Norway will receive a border resident's certificate when the agreement on this is final. When it comes to the EU's interests in the northern regions, there is every reason to be sober, given whether they will always be consistent with Norway's interests. The EU is dependent on Norway and other energy suppliers to secure its future power supplies, and Norway is served with the EU interest in the northern regions, as we are also served with the US and Russia. As a small state, we must always seek a balance that can maintain a stable framework. Norway currently accounts for a relatively significant share of EU oil and gas imports. According to EU Commission estimates, the Union may have to purchase as much as 90 pst in 2030. of the oil consumption and 80 pst. by the gas from the outside. Carl Bildt must have stated that an advantage of an Icelandic EU membership is that the EU would have a greater grasp of the polar region. It may be that Norway has no reason to believe that the northern regions will not be used and assessed as a negotiating card. Norway has everything to do with having its hand on the wheel. Self-management and good and equivalent cooperation with both the EU and Russia on these issues are important. This is a good example of the part-line agreement in the Arctic and the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e851	I'm going to follow up where the representative Sjelmo Nordås escaped. I think the central party representative is obviously right in saying that it is hardly in Russia's great interest to join the EU too strongly in the affairs to be discussed further around the sharing line agreement, which was put in place in a price-effective way. The Foreign Minister presented the EU climate and energy package, the EU 2020 strategy. I believe that, in terms of the split-line agreement, Russia has a strategy. So the question is, what kind of strategy does Norway have? In the EU 2020 strategy, energy is definitely one of the main headlines, and in the face of these shifts it is quite clear that Norway is expected to be a credible, long-term energy supplier. The picture is simply that increased exports are expected from Norway to the EU, which can replace European coal and thus provide the EU with the climate benefit they want to achieve and which Norway also applauds. Much indicates that Norwegian gas production is going to fall dramatically around 2020. My wish is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will follow in the work to be done on the presentation of a – hopefully – energy and petroleum message that has been advised by the Government for five years now, and that one has the ambition to be a solid, stable energy supplier to Europe in the future. This is about having an ambitious policy in this area in terms of developing Norwegian pedestal, including on the infrastructure side. It is not certain that Russia will be the nearest party. Finally, in the heightened EU and Euroscepticism that we have seen in the EEA – the Centre Party and SV – I think it has been forgotten that 80 pst. of all exports of goods and services from Norway to Europe. You talk about benefits, and you refer to dragons and devaluation. I believe that those who work on the floor of the fishing industry, on the aluminium mills around or in the furniture industry are probably sweating by the fact that in these times of crisis the euro has fallen to, today, below NOK 7.80. I don't dare think of what kind of leavencies District Norway would have experienced if you had followed these representatives' advice on devaluation – not only the moulded floor would disappear under their legs, if you had wanted to get back the old, so-called good SV and centre party days.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e862	First of all, I would like to thank you for the presentation, and in particular for the very important work that has been done to finalise the establishment of the Barents Sea and the Polish Sea against Russia. It's foreign policy of very important note, and we're very grateful for the job that's been done, so that one should not get up in difficult situations in every way in the future. The Foreign Minister’s presentation pointed out that eurocooperation is now facing major challenges — yes, problems, in normal Norwegian language. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said it says about the future of the European Union. According to the evening post today, she said the following in the German Bundestag yesterday: ‘If the aid package is not voted on, the whole of EU cooperation and the single currency may be at risk.’ Further: ‘We must draw lessons from what has happened. We must prevent instability in the euro zone and we have a duty to ensure that the EU stands on a stable foundation. Countries which do not comply with the rules on the ceiling on budget deficits must be met by penalties. Anyone who does not abide by the rules must be excluded from euro cooperation.» The representative, Mr Højbrätten, said precisely in this debate that the Union has major problems when it does not have large enough federal budgets. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement that there are problems with ‘having a single currency, without having a common fiscal policy’. That's right. Over time, it is not possible to have a single currency without a common fiscal policy – this in order to ensure democratic stability. But this is just another way of saying that an economic union must be linked to the establishment of a political union. In other words, the Union must develop into a state of common political leadership, based on democratic elections among the citizens of the Union. Political management must also, as a matter of course, also be empowered to issue taxes and levies to the Union's federal budget. Thus, the Union’s political leadership will be able to obtain the necessary financial resources, if they tax citizens and businesses hard enough, to correct for a socio-economic negative development in some of the Länder of the Union. The establishment of such a political union will enable one to receive Europe's response to the United States of America, namely the United States of Europe. These are precisely the objectives of the European Movement in Norway and their European superstructure, the European Movement. However, the popularization of the Union project is falling. The well-being that is now being introduced in a number of EU countries to maintain a common monetary policy further weakens the popular commitment to the Union project. In addition, when we know that the citizens of the Union are conducting the political conversation in many different languages, there is not a common political change of words. In this situation, Norway has a special responsibility. We have a special responsibility to show ourselves as a different country, which is not seaworthy enough, but which is leading it as a small language in a world of great difficulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e885	The Foreign Minister’s statement on Tuesday and today’s debate are on important EU and EEA issues. A clearly important issue is the economic situation in many EU and EEA countries. The size has discussed Iceland and their challenges several times. Today I will touch Greece, as the Foreign Minister did in his statement. And in fact, the situation in Greece has become even more acute, just since the statement on Tuesday. Why do I mention this? Yes, because it is also of interest to Norway, sail whether we are neither EU members nor part of euro cooperation. The euro countries are our closest allies and our main trading partners. It is in Norway's interest that the economy and state finances of the euro area countries are in order. The state financial crisis in Greece is serious, and it puts eurocooperation to the test – probably the largest sample since the introduction of the euro in 2002. The causes of the problems in Greece include: weak budgetary management and poor financial policies, impaired credibility as a result of the manipulation of budgetary statistics and prospects for weak economic growth. In all, Greece has considerable responsibility for the sea, and I do not envy my party trap and the leader of Socialist International, Prime Minister Papandreou. Let us hope that Greece and Papandreou will succeed in their efforts. The Stabilisation Programme as recently agreed by Greece, the International Monetary Fund and the EU is important, and it will hopefully lead to Greece being able to serve its sovereign debt. The crisis in Greece has also led to concerns about the financial situation in other euro area countries that are also struggling with large government debt and low economic growth, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy — not to the same extent as in Greece. It may also have an effect on Norway. Just think of all the Nordics who live in Spain. Maybe they're sitting with a dwelling they don't get sold if the problems were to escalate. And what impact can it have on Norwegian businesses and Norwegian businesses if these markets collapse? It is not that the situation in Greece, Spain and Portugal is of importance only to them, it is also of importance to Norway. The crisis in Greece and the subsequent rescue package have created a great deal of political commitment, especially in Germany, where this has become domestic policy, and actually characterises the partial election campaign ahead of Sunday's important elections in North Rhine-Westphalia. The debate in Germany is about how the rescue package and Germany's contribution will affect the German economy, German fiscal policy and thus German domestic policy. Tomorrow I will meet with colleagues in the Bundestag in Berlin. They are all affected by the financial challenges in the euro area countries, and many are actually concerned about the future of the euro. So serious is the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e896	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a useful and thorough presentation. The Council of State was in the context of the Treaty of Lisbon. It has been said to contribute to a more democratic and effective European Union. At the same time, we see that the Treaty makes the EU more and more approaching a European Federation, where power is concentrated around the largest countries, and where several of the decisions are to be taken by a majority. The process of the adoption of the EU basic law itself demonstrates how the Union’s leadership resorts to undemocratic means of overcoming the will of the people. The rejection of the Constitution in several countries made no greater impression than the making of a slightly editorial rewriting and providing for a new treatment, this time without going about asking the people again — where the exception was Ireland, where the country’s constitution provided for a vote. Irene also said no, but after massive pressure and much unilateral information they finally agreed yes. The constitutional process confirms that the development of the Union is not rooted in public opinion. In this way, it can be said that the Council of State is right to say that the process ‘illustrates the nature of EU cooperation’. Governments also briefed on the work of what may be called the EEA Committee. I am very pleased that the Government has put down such a sample and will have a review of the EEA Agreement and its consequences. I have great expectations for that sample. It is important that we look at how the agreement has had consequences for district policy, business, management of natural resources and local democracy. It's especially local democracy I want to spend some time on. From my home country, Nord-Trøndelag, we have examples that bureaucrats in Brussels have gone into several issues that can be said that it is most natural to be determined locally, from whichever banking connection the municipality wishes to choose, where one cannot emphasise regional development as one of the criteria in the choice of bank, to put chains in the wheels for bets both on windmills and broadband through the county-owned power company. This picture is quite far from what was told by the EEA members when they wanted to bring the case to Stortinget in the early 1990s. These are examples that it is important for the sample to include in its job. The committee must leave the offices, meet local politicians, business people and others who experience the consequences of the agreement on a daily basis. There are different views on the agreement in Stortinget. Some think it is good, others think it is the best of bad alternatives, and some are strongly critical of the agreement. In any case, it is important that we now look at the consequences of the EEA Agreement and the developments that have taken place are developments that we want to participate in in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e911	This debate shows that there is a big gap in the view of what the EU is. Peter N. Myhre said that there was «too much social democracy». I will agree with him that there is a lot of social democracy – but not too much – in EU cooperation. That is how the representative says – and I agree – that Norway is a ‘other country in a world of great difficulty’. [[...]] The reason for this is not that we are not in the EU, but it is because we have had a high level of employment over many decades, we have had high oil and gas revenues, and we have a good government. The economic crisis in Europe is not due to EU cooperation. It's coming out of the global financial crisis. The debt problems are due to the fact that most countries had to raise large loans to save the banking system and to stimulate the economy. Greece is in a special situation. This is because the country has not pursued a sustainable economic policy. They have granted themselves welfare schemes to which they have not had an economy, and they have cheated on numbers and statistics. So it's true that with dragons, they might not be able to raise such a large loan, because the credit rating would be lower. But going back to dragons and getting the opportunity – as some people have pointed out here – to de-evaluation is to push the burdens on others instead of settling themselves. I do not think that is a policy we should see as desirable. There is no doubt that a single currency is demanding, and it demands that the Member States conduct an economic policy within the framework agreed upon in terms of deficits and debt. That is why Eurocooperation is now on a major test, caused by the international financial crisis and its consequences, and we do not know the end of it. But it is another country in Europe that is also bad out there, namely Iceland, and that country is not part of the EU's monetary union. Also there is the cause of the crisis to find its own policies. The situation in Norway is outstanding: money on the book and profits on the budget. What brought the Norwegian interest rate level down to the European level was, of course, the conversion of monetary policy in 2001, when we put ourselves on the same principle as we did in the European Union. There was a great advantage in the situation we are now in. So a little word about Storting's ability to handle important things in good time. For a while ago, the evening post had an article about eCall – the thing that is going to call a central if we are going outside the road – and I thought this is a new data directive. It was mentioned in detail in the National Transport Plan of the government last year. Then I became curious about what the committee said in its comments – not one word. So it's going to be something to stir up the Biggest in future issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e930	Much has been said in the debate on economic problems and the impact of the financial crisis in the EU and euro area countries, but little has been said about how these countries can get out of the crisis. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also made no mention of the extensive European research cooperation and developments in this area, which will have a significant impact on Norwegian research in the years to come. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to ask some questions about this. The ERA shall ensure the free flow of researchers and knowledge in Europe by 2020, as referred to as the fifth freedom. It is obvious that the EU has great ambitions for the development of its research effort, and ERA goes from voluntary intergovernmental cooperation to a shared area of competence between the EU and its Member States after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. A note from the Research Councils of the Norwegian EU delegation shows that EEA countries have to expect major challenges for further involvement in ERA. As ERA is not covered by the EEA Agreement, there is no automatic means for Norway to participate in new initiatives in this area. Anneli Pauli, Vice-President of the Directorate-General for Research, also stressed during his recent Norway visit that Norway had to be very active to achieve this. Research councils believe that there is a tendency for EU Member States to want to distinguish EU 27 from other European countries outside the EU. It will then be an important task for Norway to highlight the specific nature of the EEA Agreement. I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the Government will give priority to achieving a stronger link between the EEA Agreement and ERA in order to ensure Norwegian full participation in what is the largest arena of international research cooperation for Norwegian researchers and institutions. Norway will, of course, also have to decide on a number of research policy choices, such as participation in joint programme cooperation, so-called ‘Joint Programming’, and European cooperation on infrastructure. Norwegian rules on research mobility and knowledge transfer must also be harmonised with EU legislation. Then, of course, comes the budgetary consequences of the EU's ambitious plans for increasing its investment. I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is more concerned about how he and the Government can ensure a continued strong position for Norway’s participation as European research cooperation is now increasingly integrated into the EU and the level of ambition is increasing. It would be very harmful for Norway’s knowledge development and value creation if our position in the field of research was weakened as a result of the sad fact that we chose to stand outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e941	I would like to thank you for a good debate, which also had temperature. To the representative, Mr Tetzschner, I would also like to thank the Council for how I should comment and respond to posts. With regard to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have so much respect for her that I think I can both comment on what she says, and what I think she has not said, because my statement also mentioned other areas. But I'm taking with me the recordings from the representative Tetzschner. I think what we've been trying to achieve in recent years is to create more information – more channels for what's happening in the EU into the Biggest. We have carried out a thorough, publicly available assessment of the Treaty of Lisbon. We have our EEA strategies, foreign policy cooperation, Schengen cooperation, these presentations, etc. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has stressed that the various committees can also take their own initiatives. The various expert councils can answer questions. The various representatives of the Committees may also put matters on the agenda. So to the representative, Astrup, I would like to say that there is a bit of a mistake in whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be standing there and give a detailed response in assessments of all kinds of professional directives. I believe that in relation to issues relating to the ETS Directive, the best addressees of the issues are the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for the Environment, in addition to the broad lines that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would normally like to mention. I would like to say to Mr Woldseth that in the case of the Baltic States, which are in a difficult situation, Norway is following that development very closely. I can't follow her reasoning, which, as I heard, went on that now is the financial problem, then there's going to be increased crime, we have to consider doing something with the boundaries. That's not the point. We have an EEA agreement where there is free movement of labour in this area, and we have to stand by our Baltic friends and neighbours within the framework we have. One of these areas is to strengthen cooperation against crime — get to return agreements, in which the Minister of Justice is actively involved. As regards the Data Storage Directive and the representative Tetzschner, this Directive, as it exists, is subject to a review, in particular in the light of developments in technology. As early as 2006, when the Directive was adopted, it had been taken into account that EU countries had to make assessments of the scope of storage obligations and new communication technologies. So there's a notified change coming. It is natural that we listen to what is happening, but what we have to decide on is the directive that is there, and that debate must be taken. Any adjustments in the directive will not come until 2012, so we have to make our choice before that time, as I see it. So to the representative of Warloe, research is very central. This is mentioned in previous presentations here, and I can say that the Minister of Research had a thorough review in the recent European Committee, which the representative also followed. She confirmed what he said – that we are very concerned about this, and there is a lot at stake for Norway in how we secure our influence and how we are drivers. It has the full attention of the Government, and it is not unnatural for attention to be given in future presentations. It wasn't this time, but it's been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e956	There has been a good and interesting debate, and I will reassure those who have suspected that I am not interested in the situation in Greece, and say that that situation follows both me and my party closely, like everyone else. I've also spent a lot of my debate time in national media this week talking about this particular situation, because it's serious, and what happened in Greece yesterday, of course, is also deeply tragic. When I chose the focus I had in my post, it was to focus on what the Storting has the opportunity to intervene in terms of influence and positions. That is why I found it a little strange that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which was also a good analysis, a good description of the situation, as I also pointed out in my post, first on page 13 of 17 pages, came up with what was relevant to the EU and EEA issues, which are relevant to Norway and Norway's positions. It is clearly difficult for a government that is composed of yes-parties and no-parties – it is something that can happen in many contexts in the future, no matter who forms government in this country; here there are two no-parties that will yet be able to form a consistent strategy out of the EEA. The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, even believed that Norway should have an association similar to that of Switzerland. He said in a reply that this could be the case, and I would just like to remind you that the European Parliament's Internal Market Committee has just carried out an evaluation of both the EEA Agreement and the bilateral agreements with Switzerland. With regard to the bilateral agreements to Switzerland, they were described as static, inadequate, heavy-wine and problematic, and it may not be a leading star for Norway’s relationship to Europe. Nor is it unexpected that two no-parties, such as the SV and the Center Party, want to focus on what is not going very well in Europe right now. More importantly, through this debate on the presentation, the Stortinget has the opportunity to focus on how Norwegian interests can be safeguarded in a Europe and in an EU that is becoming increasingly complex, increasingly unwieldy, and where it is becoming increasingly difficult, even according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to care for Norwegian interests and to be heard. As the Foreign Minister said in the line change we had here instead, you have to live with differences. I respect the Minister of Foreign Affairs, both professionally and personally, but at the same time I believe that it cannot be that, in debates in the Grand Duchy, when we do not choose to follow the direction that the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants us to follow, we get strong criticism, and then we hear it from the Parliament's Chair. There must be room for us to have different ways of putting up our posts, different ways of debating, and I believe that through a stronger debate on what is actually going on in the EU in the next few months, the next few years – not just what has been going on since the previous presentation – we could have a huge increase that was better involved in how we can influence Norwegian positions in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e968	That is exactly what some have tried to say in the debate: What are the challenges facing the EU? What is the challenge in relation to the euro? We want to lift that debate and not just talk about the internal game between big business and government. I took the floor because of a line from the always engaged representative Svein Roald Hansen – who I very often agree with, but we have a slightly different approach to this matter. He had a line to Per Olaf Lundtigen. What surprises me about Svein Roald Hansen’s contributions is that in almost all EU debates, the EU’s important and heavy importance is being raised – how much the EU means for European development. But now that we are faced with a major financial crisis, major economic problems, major monetary problems, we must dispel the role of the European Union as much as possible. It would have been interesting to hear what the representative Hansen thinks: what is the European Union's answer? What will be the impact on the EU's development of the crisis we are now facing? And what does the former leader of the European movement think could be a natural path for the European Union? So the representative draws the comparison between the dragons and the Icelandic krona. What's interesting then is to see what the Icelandic Finance Minister has said. He has said that it has been a great advantage for Iceland that they have not been tied to the euro, precisely because they have had a weaker currency that has given them greater competitiveness and the opportunity to travel Iceland's economy faster on foot. Iceland's own finance minister has thus promised as an advantage, when they are in a deep crisis, that they have had their own monetary policy that has made them more competitive and that they are rising faster. Does Svein Roald Hansen agree with that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e977	I do not have the right to a Swiss solution. The government statement says that we should not become members of the EU, but that we should have the EEA Agreement. On the other hand, I have said that a number of different forms of association with the EU have proven historically to work well for Norway in a trade agreement. Switzerland's solution works for Switzerland. In addition to the debate that has been taking place here, I referred to the renewal, change, modernisation of the EEA Agreement. The description given by the representative Eriksen Soreide of the Swiss solution is, of course, to be confused with the description of the EEA agreement given by many yes-people in Norway when they criticize him. But what I'm drawing for was how it was like that there are no people in the government, makes it especially important for us to have a strategy that would somehow make it less interesting for us in the government party to be active in the European policy. For my part, I have to say that it is very opposite. As long as I have been involved in European policy and foreign policy, I have been particularly concerned that Norway, as a non-EU country, should seek influence, have debate on developments in Europe and be active in European policy. I must say that I am also aware that since I have said no to the EU, it is a particular responsibility to find good arrangements and be active there. The fact that many no-people are occupied with it is a contributing reason why the Government has made a lot of moves and changes to make sure that we are at an early stage in taking positions, taking an active part at different levels, making sure that there is Norwegian representation, and that we have knowledge of what is happening in Europe. What is quite positive is that many, both those who are Europeans, and those who are Europeans, have gradually been occupied by that dimension and accepted that we will have the connection we have for a while. We have to find a good way to have it. So I'll just comment again that a necessary commitment to have early influence, e.g. on the Data Storage Directive, which came up here, is, of course, to have an early point of view. It is therefore important that we actually follow the European debates early, go into them, make up our minds and use the channels we have to influence. In addition to that, we have freedom of action and can make up our political views and have some kind of influence that will have an impact on the EU debate. It may also have meaning in the debate on the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e988	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e991	I asked for the floor because the representative, Ms. Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, said that the issues in question first came on page 13 of 17 in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. On page 5, the statement mentions what is the most important change since the last presentation, the Treaty of Lisbon, which crosses everything else we have to do. The five fronts deal with the current economic crisis. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the specific issues involved, the directives, should not become a matter between the Foreign Affairs Committee primarily and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There shall be a case between the Scientific Committees and the Scientific Councils. They must be held responsible. Then I got a challenge from my colleague here, which is a bit demanding in 15 seconds. But let me just say that I believe the role of the European Union in the situation that has been has been very important. Without the cooperation there, the coordination of measures against the financial crisis could not have taken place. Iceland, its own currency – it has been an advantage, yes, but it is to shift the burden to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1000	My good colleague, as the parliamentary leader and committee member, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, summed up the reality of this debate in an excellent way when he said: we are going to be members of the EEA for a while to come. That's what I think the Storting is wise to base. This debate has been refreshing. We've got our point of view broken, not just on questions of form of association, but even more important on how Norway works with the form of association we have. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that we should develop our relationship in terms of content, also at the institutional level, but nevertheless firmly anchored in the fact that it is in Norway's interest to maintain the kind of connection that we have today. The Lisbon Treaty strengthens the role of the European Parliament. The so-called codecision procedure extends it to almost all legislation. National parliaments are given a formal role in the EU decision-making process as guardians of principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. For this reason, it is quite appropriate that the Storting should take the initiative – and now be set up – to set up an official broadcasting system to work towards the European Parliament in order to ensure better access to information and contact. This gives Stortinget the opportunity to get involved in concrete issues in the previous phase. I expect that it will also give the European Committee of the Regions the opportunity to have a proactive role, as I see the intention of the Chairman of the Committee's speeches here today, much more so than the situation has now existed. The important debate on the Data Storage Directive enters a new phase in the next few days. Let me therefore underline what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. In January, Commissioner Malmström said that she would look into the Data Storage Directive. She would have more certainty about what happens to the data collected, and who will have access to it. But it is not the revised directive that we now have on the table. It is the Directive that has been set up for a time that has been consulted. We know the directive and its implications and the opinions of the hearing bodies. Some have to be taken into consideration. Those of us who have taken a stand have among other things. thought of as the head of the Lund Commission, Ketil Lund, who strongly warns against the directive and says it is extremely scary. It's an invasion of privacy, and it represents an aggressive surveillance interest that we until now have not known.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1011	What made me draw was the last post of the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have to admit that I still think it is very perceptive that representatives from the Right – okay, you could say that the financial crisis, unemployment and debt crisis were the problems of the past, but I just have to say that it is not a description of reality that I recognize. If we were just to take the Right starting point, as a business-friendly party, when we know that 80 pst. of our exports go to EU countries – if only we had taken the hat – the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee would be absolutely aware that the financial crisis, debt crisis and unemployment will also be part of the major challenges of the future linked to the EU and related to EU cooperation. I also just want to say this as a general comment, because almost any debate we have on Europe matters ends up quickly in a type of yes or no to EU discussion. It may be natural that it's like this in a country like ours. I respect it. But I also want to stress – to continue the starting point of the Highbridge: love, faith and hope – that the EU is neither heaven nor hell. The EU is a democratic institution, which is what we do politically. That is why, as parliamentarians, we should take it a little more often and describe Europe's problems in a slightly different way than being in the wings, yes or no to membership. The challenges now facing Europe are so great that we owe it to Norwegian society and the Norwegian people to be something more balanced than to argue from a yes-view or a no-view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1018	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1021	I have not thought at any time in the debate that the debt crisis in Greece and the financial problems that are being experienced are the problems of the past. Rather, on the contrary, it is one of the challenges of the future. My point was that the statement bears a great deal of emphasis on addressing things that have happened in the EU since the last time with regard to EEA-relevant legislation for Norway, for example. And to Svein Roald Hansen: So on page 13, the statement starts with, "I want to mention some of the relevant EEA issues." That's what was just my point. I am of the opinion that this presentation debate should not be a matter between the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That is precisely why we have this debate in an open room, so that all the committees can participate in matters that are relevant to their areas, which I feel some of the members of other committees have also done in this Chamber. I think that's good. It helps to revitalise the debate on what will be Norway's positions on the relevant legislative acts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1028	We're going to have respect for the way we put up our posts, said the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I agree. But let me say, when she has said twice in this room that she has mentioned this in debates in the media: I have heard her in those debates in the media, I think she was good and current, but that cannot be compensated for what we say in the big room. I think it's a bit strange approach. Then she says that I mostly reflect on what has happened “since the last.” Yes, it is often useful to reflect on what has happened since the last time. But I think the approach is strange, because the Treaty of Lisbon has been adopted since the last, and has entered into force. There's no news of any yesterday. The effect of the Lisbon Agreement is ahead of us, and, as Mr Hansen said, this statement has a detailed review of what it can mean for us. So I think we have to make a choice. This statement follows largely the model that has been followed since 2006–2007, that it has a reference to current European policy developments that are important for the framework of our debate, and then has a reference to a number of issues. If Stortinget wants it to be a list of issues from start to finish, I'm open to considering it. I believe that we need the framework, and we need the issues, and I would also like to say that this must be the case, as others have said here, that with the framework we now have, with the technology we have – The Storting must even be represented in Brussels – the size of all matters relevant to the possible impact on Norway cannot wait for it to be the Foreign Minister's statement that lists them. The programme for the European Commission is available online and can be read. It is an assessment of what is relevant and not relevant, what becomes EEA-relevant and not EEA-relevant. But I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I believe it has had both temperature and direction and has been useful for the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1039	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3211]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1055	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line after the speakers who have the floor within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1064	The Deltakers Act and the Raw Fish Act are important pillars of fisheries policy. Let me start by saying that there is a positive consensus on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act. The sales laws themselves, in cooperation with economic operators, have to adapt to the most appropriate forms of sales to ensure value creation and control of the resource take-off. Fishing resources must be managed in a long-term perspective. The importance of viable populations must be given to short-term nutritional reasons so that fish resources can continue to provide a basis for employment both at sea and on land. The Committee notes that the Government questions whether it is still appropriate to submit a communication on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act every two years and invites the Stortinge to make its views known. A single committee considers that although the information contained in the notification is publicly available on different websites, it is important that the Storting should be able to regularly discuss various issues related to the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act. It is therefore agreed that current practices should be continued. The six fish sales laws are private legal entities organised as cooperatives where only fishermen can be members. The sales teams have the exclusive right to market raw fish, etc. first and foremost. in Norway. In addition, the level of sales has an increasing role to be played by public administrations in a number of different areas. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that questions may be asked as to whether there should be a limit on the administrative capacity of an organisation reserved only for fishermen. In addition, the Committee considers that a high level of awareness related to the boundaries between the public and private activities of the sales teams is important. The pilot project with a separate mediation body with two mediation names – one for white fish and one for pelagic fish – entered into force on 1 January 2007. The pilot project has been evaluated and the report shows clear differences between the pelagic sector and the whitefish sector in the use of the mediation body. The brokering body has a better anchoring on the buyer's side than on the fishermen's side, and the mediation body has a better anchoring in the pelagic sector than in the whitefish sector. However, none of the operators on the fishing side, whether in the pelagic sector or in the whitefish sector, would like to see the testing system continued. We welcome feedback from the Government on how the evaluation should be followed up. The winter 2009 was very demanding for the marketing of white fish, while the demand for salmon and pelagic fish was relatively good. The fishing industry faced credit challenges as a result of poorer demand for white fish, and stocks became high. However, the parties agreed to reduce the minimum price for cod. First-hand sales of short-term sales have been a challenge for the sales teams for several years. The Norwegian land industry has not had the capacity to accept all deliveries from the fishing fleet. Since 2002, the Ministry has granted annual derogations to Norway’s raw fish teams to use Russian merchant vessels up to a certain quantity to remedy the situation. The Committee has taken note of the fact that the raw fish layer has made little use of the derogation in recent years, and a majority of the lots, all except the Advance Party, therefore consider that such a derogation should not be granted unless a concrete need is more likely to be made at the time of the application for the derogation. Norwegian seafood is one of our most important exports, next to oil and gas. Norway is now exporting seafood to 150 countries. A Joint Committee is pleased that the Ministry has decided to fix the market charge for all exports of fish and fishery products at 0,75 p.m., in order to strengthen the generic market work for white fish, pelagic fish and shrimp. Norwegian maritime nutrition is dependent on stable framework conditions to maintain profitability and increase international market shares. Finally, I would like to stress that the Committee agrees that it is therefore important to pursue a tight economic policy, so that the krone price and the interest rate are kept at the lowest possible level. On behalf of a Joint Committee, I recommend that the notification be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1085	This Communication is an information to the Stortinget on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act in 2007-2008, and some issues from 2009. The Committee's work has focused on six areas: the role of the sales teams as publicly managing the mediation body the fish sales laws and the financial crisis foreign merchant vessels control implementation of the Fish Exports Act; The Committee agrees that the system of reporting to the Storting should be continued. The sales structure has not changed in those years. It is still the case that the sales laws have exclusive rights to all primary sales of raw fish in Norway, as well as an increasing role of public administrations in several areas. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that questions may be asked as to whether there should be a limit on the administrative capacity of an organisation reserved only for fishermen. In this case, the Progress Party and the Right are trying to mark their fisheries policy through their comments, inter alia. by proposing a review of the Law on Raw Fish, including the system of fixing the minimum price. In the same breath, I would like to make it clear that the authorities do not have, or should have, any role in setting the minimum price. This case refers to the complete difference between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Labour Party on the other, and I think that is really good. What the Progress Party really wants is to liberalise the entire fishing industry, not just the raw fish law. The industry will develop without bureaucratic barriers — free slip, free slip. Yes, the programme for the Progress Party even states that liberalisation is too slow. Liberalisation means that politicians adopt less government governance and that more in society is left to the market. If I don't remember correctly, the beginning of the financial crisis we're now in, rotting mortgages in the United States. It was a result of market liberalism in practice. In this case, the Right has thrown itself on the team with the Advance Party. I think that's a strange operation. The Right Programme states that a review of the Raw Fish Act is sought, but at the same time, it is said, in the same sling, that the Raw Fish Act provides a basis for an efficient and well-organised market place and good resource control. In addition, the lot will allow to enter into individual agreements between the buyer and the seller on the supply of fish and that this must be incorporated into the commercial rules of the sales laws. Most fishing vessels will fish where they are the most fish, and they are totally dependent on predictable framework conditions, such as minimum prices negotiated and regulated. How many fishermen have energy to negotiate price over the quay after a long day at sea? The working party will still ensure that the raw fish law and the fish sales laws are guarantees for clean and fair trading conditions. Actors on land and sea have been shown to appreciate this, and central to this is the exclusive right of movement under the law. Important control work is carried out by the sales teams, and large quantities of sales information are reported and transferred to the authorities as the basis for the management task. In the view of the Workers' Party, the Law on Raw Fish appears to be an adapted and necessary framework for ensuring fishermen's participation and contributing to healthy competition, market-right price and equal treatment of fishermen and purchasers. Finally, for the sake of order: the Soria Moria declaration is clear that the raw fish law and the participant law must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1136	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1139	The representative Lillian Hansen had a very interesting post, in which she finally came up with what is the government's policy, while the rest of the post was used to try to pretend that she was doing well on other parties' policies. I would like to quote the following from the setting: ‘The Committee notes that in the winter of 2009 the placing on the market of white fish was very demanding [[...]] It shows how well it worked for pelagic fish, and how well it worked for salmon. Furthermore, it has been said that you should be able to look at the administrative level – that is, how much administrative burden you should be able to add to the sales laws. Then it becomes very strange when the representative Lillian Hansen finally says that we should have a proper market price set. It is strange that you leave to an actor to set the price. It's not a market price, it's a given price from a special actor, i.e. the point of sale. I would like to ask the representative the following questions: What will be done about changes in the raw fish law, so that we do not have to have the situation we had this winter, once again?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1153	I don't think today's debate will open up for us to go into and discuss elements of neither the Raw Fish Act nor other elements of what we report to the Stortinget here today. At the same time, I also think that one should give honor, for one should not be afraid to assess how this law works at any time. But going in and debating the sales laws doesn't seem to me to be part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1158	Then I'll take the next line as well. It is based on the first answer I received from the representative Lillian Hansen. The representative says she doesn't think this belongs in this debate. This matter concerns the law on raw fish, and I am well aware that the Government has not planned to promote other matters for this committee under the Raw Fish Act – at least not in the near future. I'm looking at the Minister of Fisheries and Coast, maybe she can tell later whether there's going to be a new case. This is the very reason we have to discuss this matter. And then I ask the question: When does the representative of Hansen think that we should have the opportunity to discuss the Raw Fish Act? The representative, Hansen, was informed of the proposal that lies here. In the proposal, one asks the Government to carry out a review of the Raw Fish Act. Why does the representative not trust his own government and what they will come back to? Because we're just asking for a review of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1163	The next replicator is Frank Bakke Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1166	As I said before, this debate does not open up for us to discuss the content of the raw fish law. And in relation to other discussions – including in the election campaign – and the Progress Party programme, I am not at all surprised that we want to take the debate on the content of the Raw Fish Act in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1171	The representative Lillian Hansen said in his contribution that the price should be set off the market. It should not be political – so it should not be politically influenced. Last week we reported that the President of the Fiskarlag, Reidar Nilsen, was in the Sunnmørsposten and told him that the raw fish layer, which is the fisherman’s own sales team, sets the price so low that we can expect a race of bankruptcy in the fishing fleet. Does the representative of Hansen consider this to be a political opinion, or does the representative believe that this is a fisherman who is in charge of market orientation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1179	I have noticed that article in the Sunnmørspost, and I understand very well the reactions that came from several teams – among others. Regional Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, FHL. In fact, the authorities do not interfere in fixing the minimum price.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1186	The Committee itself has asked for an open line change. This makes it a little more difficult for both the president and the committee to implement the line change. The President will open it if the representative Nesvik wants to take a line. – Then we go back to the ordinary list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1191	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the case rapporteur for a clear statement on the matter, and not least on where the individual parties stand. So I'm going to try to focus on just a couple of points, and I'm also going to build a little bit of my post around the string shift that we've just witnessed. It is said that the public should not interfere in the determination of the minimum price. Then, of course, the problem is that we have created a code in which the state grants one instance the right to set the price by law. This means that the fisherman's joints, i.e. the sales teams, can determine the price that the sales team itself finds they want to set. Because if there is a disagreement about the price and the mediation does not lead to an agreement, it is the sales laws that set the price. If there's one thing about the winter that we've got behind us -- at least hopefully we've got behind us, we could see a few days ago that winter may not have completely escaped the roof, but let's hope it's over now -- should have taught us, then it's that when the system really doesn't work, it can have brutal consequences. We see that fish buyers have gone over the edge and have had to shut down their business. We saw that there was disagreement about minimum prices, especially on cod, which in turn led to a build-up of stocks. We got a case for Stortinget that the economy of some people was now so bad that we had to participate and contribute to increasing equity in order to secure the receipt also for the current year's fishing. Then it becomes extra strange when we hear that this matter cannot open up for us to discuss the Raw Fish Act. My file says that this case has a review of the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Exports Act, and then this is the opportunity to discuss it. Because if we can't make any changes, at least I signed that what we see now is that once again we can go against a break in price fixing, that we can then once again go against a situation where you bought the fish too expensive in the season we have behind us. Then you set a new minimum price that is low, and significantly lower than the one we have behind us, because the access to cod has become so much better. We now have large quotas, which means there's a large quantity coming in. It makes that if we don't divide into the market when we set these prices, it gets a double effect, a double negative effect, for those who have already purchased. We also have to assume that the market in Europe has changed in terms of price. The pangasus that has entered — i.e. the farmed fish from Asia — has led to further pressure on the price of white fish in Norway. Because at the same time we are getting these large quantities into the market, a market in which we have operated in many ways almost exclusively, together with others who sell cod to Europe – yes, we now experience that large quantities of pangasus come in, while we have built up our own stocks in the Barents Sea, which also makes the quantity significant. If we don't assume that if the market is going to take this away, we have to look at the price mechanisms that we have, we're also struggling in the years that are coming. I hope at least that the Government will do this on its own initiative. Of course, you don't want to be ruled by the Right Party and the Advance Party in this room – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I accept that you don't. But at least I want to ask you to sit down with the parties to look at a better system related to the minimum price. For as it is today, the winter we have behind us has shown that it cannot continue. We need to get more coherence between pricing and what the market is willing to take at a given price. Why is it that on the salmon market it works well? It is used as an argument here: Yes, but the fishermen cannot drive and sell their fish themselves. No, they don't necessarily have to do that, but they can use an organ. The salmon exporters are actually doing it. The growers are able to sell their fish. In the pelagic sector, the auction principle works very well. But then we have some areas where it doesn't work. Let's at least take over -- let's take that discussion -- that where it doesn't work, we have to put in place a better system. I'll be responsive, I don't know what's the right system. But that something has to be done with today's system, the winter we have behind us should have shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1208	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1211	I think we can quickly agree in this Chamber that 2009 has been a particularly demanding year for many industries in Norway. So we can look out in Europe and reflect a little bit around the debate that was in the hall just instead, and reflect on how wonderfully lucky we have been in this country, not least because of a powerful government. In the case of changes around the plan setting the minimum price, the plan has worked well. It is also such that it has been assessed at least clearly to the Committee that one should not make changes unless one knows what the changes should entail. That is precisely what the Progress Party is now challenging, based on a totally random situation in 2009, where most of it was extremely challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1218	I find it sad that the chairman of the committee has not read the proposal – and then I must almost read the proposal to the chairman of the committee, so that he can bring the following contents with him: ‘The Government requests a review of the Law on Raw Fish for the purpose of simplifying and red tape, including the system of fixing minimum prices.’ That is precisely what it is: we have not concluded, because we see that these mechanisms are demanding. That's why we ask the government to carry out a review so that we can put forward suggestions on how we can come up with a solution that is better than the one we have today, and the one that we have behind us. The representative was also involved in the financial situation in Europe. It is too easy to just refer to it, because we have got a new situation related to the pangasus, which has come into the market to a much greater extent. We have built up our own cod stock in the Barents Sea, which also means that we are adding more to the market. It's also a part of driving the price down. Then we have to find better price mechanisms, which means that we get our fish sold at the highest price possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1230	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Nesvik for reading the proposal, because that is precisely what I said: it is a proposal where you have no indication of where to go. It is a proposal based on a completely exceptional situation in 2009 and it is a system that has worked reasonably well and most likely will also work reasonably well in the future. That's what's the challenge. That's what's the starting point of the majority when you're in position as you've been, precisely because you want to ensure predictability for large parts of the industry we're discussing. I record that the Progress Party does not want exactly that, but wants to put a system that has worked, actually in play through its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1235	No, we don't want to play the game. In fact, we want to put in place a system that will give us a more sustainable industry in the future, including on the sales side. What's a little bit of a problem is that we've got different prices. This means that those who have had to buy when the minimum price was high and who now have this in stock – they have actually had to buy it, because they have no alternative – have to sell with loss when the price is reduced afterwards. Then Stortinget comes into the picture and says that then we have to do something about the equity of these companies. It shows that this has not worked. But then we're open to and want the government to do a review, just to see if there might be alternative ways to do this. Because if the representative of Aasland has not seen that we have challenges in the time that come when we sell into our markets, then we really have a problem – if the government parties are not willing to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1244	I have one – card – question. I noticed that the representative Nesvik said they had to buy the fish. How do you feel about the Raw Fish Act? I remember that this is a report on how, among other things, the raw fish law has been in operation in 2007, 2008 and in some cases in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1252	The representative must remember that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1255	An enterprise that sells e.g. The cod fillet, in fact, has to buy cod in order to produce the fillet. If you don't buy it, you have to shut down your business. It's that simple. As long as you have a system where you have monopoly activities on the raw fish, you have to buy through the sale team at the price it has set. So that's what this system is doing. I assume that the representative Lillian Hansen does not believe that we are going to shut down the entire fillet industry in North Norway, among other things, because the price is too high because it is contrary to what the market is willing to pay. So I hope we can at least agree that we need to have a price for which the market can take in the products. It wasn't the case in the fall and in winter, and that's what makes you get built up stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1263	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1266	The message gives a good insight into how we have market-regulated one of the most important industries we have. It explains well how reality was two to three years ago. It describes various attempts to change the price mechanisms and how they were received in the industry. In the case of price mediation, it in fact also informs that the department assesses how the evaluation should be followed. The message gives a good description of all the control tasks that have now been left to the different sales teams. Everything is fine and good when you put the message in the right historical context. When we put this message into today's context and look at what we've been learning in the last few years, it shows us another thing. It shows us that we have a regime to set the commodity price that doesn't have the ability to take up changes in the market. We have a pricing system where the different parties meet for discussions, where one party goes home and decides the price. In addition, when you see that the President of the Fiskarlag in advance of the price discussions via the media can tell you about the fishermen's own sales team, the price is so low that you will experience a bankruptcy race in the fleet, and then I think the time is ripe to see the matter in a new light. So we really have a politically driven raw material price. We're dependent on getting a price fixing that's much more market-driven. This isn't about getting a mechanism that takes away the minimum price. It's not like the fishermen are going to get on the kaikant in fancy clothes and with the lua in their hands to ask for payment for their fish. But we have to see that what we pay for the raw material is related to what we get in the market. When setting the price, the market takes into account the quantity of goods available, it takes into account quality, it takes into account the ability to deliver over time, it takes into account the purchasing power of the consumer, it takes into account competing products, it takes into account financial prospects such as crown prices and interest rates, etc. In addition, we need to be aware that the market takes into account the fact that in some supplier countries, such as Norway, political opinions and policy instruments are often used because it is known that policy-making instruments can influence industry and price. Our way of pricing doesn't give incentives for the fishing industry to think about quality. It doesn't give us incentives that we can have deliveries to the market all year round, it doesn't give us incentives to collect as much of our goods as possible, it doesn't take into account that we'd like to fish for more species of fish, or that we're going to benefit from the fact that we actually have natural advantages measured against large parts of the rest of the world. The pricing system we have today tells us that we still have a lot of people who confuse the concept of the market with the terrible market forces that were spoken out against when we went on the 1st May train. In this context, the market is the one who pays the price. Norwegian legislation should appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1287	Raw fish law is a central tool in Norwegian fisheries policy. It has over time created stability for fishermen, although there have been some challenges in recent years. The fish stocks have a single right to the marketing of raw fish in the first place and the right to lay down commercial rules which are binding on everyone who buys fish in the first place. This raw fish law and fish salad has given us a clean market place and important control system. SV believes it is important to take care of this key element of our fisheries policy. But the fish salad is not just an organization for the marketing of fish. They also have a role as public administrators. The fish stocks have been given a number of management tasks over time. When the Sea Resource Act was adopted in 2008, new tasks were assigned to fish farms. Salaries now play an important role in national resource control. The revenue monopoly ensures access to information on the withdrawal of resources at sea, and it is a decisive commitment to monitoring and good control. All of this makes the fish salads central and important actors in the Norwegian fisheries policy. The background to the message we are receiving today is that the Stortinge will be regularly briefed on the implementation of the raw fish law, and that is important. This message is of the descriptive character. Therefore, the Government has asked us to assess whether it is appropriate for the Storting to discuss it for another year. We in SV think it's a sensible arrangement. Fishing industry is a major and important industry, and raw fish law is a key element of fisheries policy. Therefore, it is reasonable that the Stortinget will be able to discuss in particular the laws and regulations on which she is based, at regular intervals. The salsa has had an important role as a public administrator. The Ministry points out that there may be grounds for considering how this part of the activity should be managed. The ministry also points out that it is important to focus on the gap between the public and the private part of the activity, and it seems that SV makes sense to look closely at it. The message also deals with fish exports. Seafood is one of the most important exports we have, and the Fish Export Committee is an important tool. The work done should be strengthened. I am pleased that the Government has added a tax that makes it possible to add it. SV is pleased that the Government is following up its efforts to strengthen the market. To sum up, SV is concerned about preserving and further developing the tools that we have through the Raw Fish Law, through the fish salads, the fish export laws and the Export Committee for Fish. The liberalisation of fishing turnover is likely to pose a threat to the resource base and the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1304	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1307	The background to this notification is that the Stortinge shall be regularly informed of the implementation of the raw fish law. The central party considers that although the information contained in the notification is publicly available on different websites, it is important that the Storting should be able to regularly discuss various issues related to the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act. The parties therefore believe that current practice should be continued. At present, fish sales teams play a very important role in national resource control and facilitate a well-functioning first-hand turnover. Furthermore, I would like to point out that it is the government's policy that the raw fish law as a framework for the sales strike system should be established, and that this is reflected in the Soria Moria declaration. The pilot project with a separate mediation body with two mediation names – one for white fish and one for pelagic fish – entered into force on 1 January 2007. The pilot project has been evaluated and the report shows clear differences between the pelagic sector and the whitefish sector in the use of the mediation body. The centre party has noticed that the mediation agency has a better anchoring on the buyer's side than on the fisherman's side. Furthermore, the mediation body has a better anchoring in the pelagic sector than in the whitefish sector. The centre batch has also noted that none of the operators on the fishing side, whether in the pelagic sector or in the whitefish sector, wishes to continue the testing scheme. In this context, I would like to point out to the Department that they are now considering how to follow up the evaluation. The centre party met with a response to Stortinget on this matter. Norwegian seafood is one of our most important exports, next to oil and gas. Norway exported a total of 47 billion dollars in 2009. Norway is now exporting seafood to 150 countries, and the Fish Export Committee is doing a very important job to market Norwegian seafood abroad. The Centre Party is pleased that the Ministry has decided to fix the market charge for all exports of fish and fishery products at 0,75 pst. to strengthen the generic market work for white fish, pelagic fish and shrimp. The centre party would also stress that Norwegian maritime feed is dependent on stable framework conditions to maintain profitability and increase international market shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1328	If the representative of Nesvik wishes the word... The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the minority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1333	The purpose of this Communication is to brief the Biggest on the implementation of the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Export Act in the years 2007 and 2008, including providing the Stortinget with some key figures on the marketing and export of fish. The notification shall be submitted every two years. The notification gives an overview of the implementation of the two laws by mentioning matters that have been on the agenda during the period. The details of the export and first-hand turnover are set out in the annual reports to the Export Committee and the fish sales teams, which are annexed to the notification. Although the notification mainly covers the years 2007 and 2008, several cases from 2009 have been mentioned. A matter which has been in focus for a while and which is mentioned in previous Communications to the Storting is the appeal procedure with a mediation body. The testing scheme lasted for two years, 2007 and 2008. The mediation body was used when the fish-riding sales laws and the fish buyers’ organisations did not reach an agreement in the negotiations on the fixing of the minimum price for fish in the first hand. The mediation body was set up jointly by the sales teams and the fish buyers’ organisations. So it was a private arrangement. On behalf of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, Kontali Analysis carried out an evaluation of the sampling scheme. The findings of the Kontalis report are summarised in the Stortinge Message. At present, the Ministry assesses the follow-up to this evaluation, but we have not yet concluded. The size will therefore be more informed about the matter at a later stage. There has been a lot of discussion about the minimum price in recent years, not only in relation to the trial procedure with mediation bodies, but also in connection with the financial crisis. I would like to welcome such discussions. At the same time, it is important to stress that the raw fish law as a framework for the sales strike systems is firm. This is downgraded in the government platform. Sales systems are essential for management in a number of contexts, including: quota control and stock take-off mapping. Salesmen play an important role in several ways. They include: have been at the heart of the national follow-up to the EU catch certificate scheme established with effect from 1 January 2010. The scheme implies that the EU requires a catch certificate for all imports into the EU of wild caught fish into the sea. I am very pleased that from the first day we already had a good Norwegian system for issuing a catch certificate. The Norwegian scheme is administered by the Sales Act, which issues a certificate on the basis of the existing Norwegian final banknote system. As regards the work on the new regulation on the placing on the market of wild marine resources in the first instance, mentioned in the notice, I can inform you that the regulation was adopted by the King of the Council of State on 30 April 2010. The regulation is a follow-up to the new Maritime Resource Act applicable to all wild marine resources. The new regulation extends the responsibilities of the sales teams accordingly to all wild marine resources. This will provide the administration with a more complete basis for the control and monitoring of all sea basins. The regulation will thus make an important contribution to the sustainable management of wild marine resources. As far as fish exports are concerned, I note that the Committee has concluded its decision to increase gradually the market fee for all exports of fish and fishery products to 0.75 pst. I am pleased, and I believe that the change will strengthen the generic market work for white fish, pelagic fish and shrimp.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1356	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1359	My questions to the Council of State relate to two fields. One is the role of the fish sales teams. Indeed, in periods of time, some questions can be asked about a combination of the role of the sales teams in the marketing of fish and the administrative part of the fish they also have. When the regulation extends this to all marine resources, an even greater problem has also been identified. My first question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there may be problems here, so there may be a need to clarify the distinction between these two things, the pricing and the administrative? My question No. 2 is the following: Is the State Council satisfied with the system currently linked to the setting of minimum prices, or will the Council of State ensure that a review is carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1366	To the first question of having an even sharper distinction between the two roles that the sales teams have, I have to admit that in my time as a fisheries minister, I have not experienced that the distinction has in any way been problematically affected. I feel that what is involved in the sale itself, i.e. the trade in raw fish, is one thing, and that what is about resource control and that piece there, is handled in a very good way. As I said in my post: I am most pleased that the good arrangements we have here enabled us to actually export fish to the EU from day one – in fact, not all fishing nations were able to do so. So to the need for a review. As I said in my post: I announced that I would come back and inform the Storting about the review of the mediation system that has been. I will then come back to that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1373	I would like to thank the Council of State for its briefing. Your good colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, is going to have a review of the mechanisms in the meat industry to make sure that the farmers get the profitability they need, and that there are no points that lead to the initial extraction of too low profitability. You also have to look at whether consumers pay too much. Is the fishing industry rigged so that it could be a good idea to review the different stages of the fishing industry, including fisheries, raw material prices and market work, so that we ensure that we obtain as many values as possible from the market for the products we sell?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1381	What I see as a need is for the Norwegian fishing industry to become more market-oriented in its entirety. I'm absolutely sure it's possible to take out a larger part of the value creation of the total values that are taken up by the sea. That market alignment should cover both the fishermen’s side and the country’s side. There is something I have mentioned with organisations and actors in many contexts. In terms of pricing itself, let's not lose sight of the fact that there is actually a minimum price that we hopefully negotiate ahead of us – or determine, which happens between us. That means that if we do a good job in the market, there's absolutely nothing wrong with paying over that price. It's not possible to pay less.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1388	I thank the Council of State for that answer. Now it's the way that pricing is institutional in the industry, that's the reality. I know that the Council of State has good market competence. Can it be expected that the industry will be more market-oriented and at the same time have such an institution as a minimum price setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1395	I trust that both fishermen and industry can. Here it's exactly the same incentive to get more out of every kilogram being picked up ashore. That's why I think so. But I have to admit that I think the market focus has not always been as strong all along in some of the terms. So a better interaction between the different actors in the fishing industry I think is for the benefit of absolutely everyone. There is a discussion here about who determines and who negotiates – now I don't have the statistics on how many have agreed, and how many have not agreed – but my impression is that very often you can agree. What we should not lose sight of in this debate is precisely the responsibility of the fishermen’s side – the raw fish layer or the other sales laws. It's a responsibility I think they're taking very seriously. I am absolutely sure that part of the chain, to call it that, also does not seem to have always been as easy when prices have been fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1402	To this year, 80,000 tonnes of cod have been landed. That's at least the last number I've got available. At the same time last year, there were 57 000 tonnes. There are still major challenges, as we know, related to the marketing of this cod. On Tuesday there was a breach of mediation in the light of different perceptions of the situation and of how the market will develop in the future. What I'm asking is: what is the Council's assessment of the market situation for white fish now and in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1409	There are probably others who are better up-to-date on the current market situation. as signed, but in any case: even earlier in the debate, the season of last year has been brought forward, and that is natural, because it is the one to be discussed in part. Now we have come into 2010 – there are two different situations. What we see in 2010 is that the fish are sold – in large quantities, but at a lower price. The challenge is to get more out of the market. Therefore, my hope is that there is so much fish sold out of Norway – that is Norwegian cod, which is also referred to here – that very many new consumers have had the taste of the fantastic Norwegian cod and would like to buy it – over and over again, and hopefully at a slightly higher price each time. With the experience from the salmon market – you can use it a little, even if it is not fully comparable – we have seen that it is actually possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1414	The representative Lillian Hansen consistently refers to this big message as a ‘report’ and will not talk about the content. The chairperson of the Committee criticises the opposition for making proposals based on random situations, as he calls it with regard to the minimum price. I perceive that this is a big message. It would be interesting to hear whether the Council shares the views of its party traps on the impossibility of submitting proposals for structural changes to the theme referred to in the Storing Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1419	As a member of the Government, I will take good care of myself to enter into a discussion in-house in the Stortingen on the Stortingen's way of working. I am very happy to present in the debates I get to be in and talk more than like about both history and the challenges in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. I feel that the situation is that there are too few speakers to discuss challenges. The majority will decide for itself which debates to take place in this Chamber. I'd like to set up. Having said that, I would also like to say that in the line changes before my post there were some links that I am not entirely attached to – that was also the background for not least the representative Aasland and the representative Lillian Hansen’s posts. It is referred to that fish buyers have gone over the edge. Here, there are some connections that aren't exactly right, but we'll talk about it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1426	Yes, we have been able to read in the media that several fish buyers have had major financial problems, and some have also wanted to shut down their business. I'm not going to go any further, we're going to have to do that in a different context. But my question to the Council of State is this: the Council of State was even inside the mediation board in its article. The arbitration panel was a review mechanism in 2007, until 31 December 2008, when it ceased. The Council of State says you have an assessment of other mechanisms to capture that piece, or what to come back to. So my question to the Council of State is when we can expect to get something. Now it's been a year and a half since that institute fell away – 31 December 2008. We have the whole 2009 behind us, and soon half of 2010. When can we expect to get a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1433	I'm still being challenged from a time perspective, and I'm trying to be as clear as I can. I often use the term ‘rapid’, ‘relatively fast’. In this context, I think I can say that I will conclude relatively quickly that we are taking this matter further. Then I have to be allowed to comment on what the representative Nesvik now came up with, that we have read in the media that fish buyers have gone overboard. Yes, but I think we should be very careful to relate it to the minimum price setting. I've met many of the people that this is about – and in surrounding areas – who say that this is probably also the result of some stories that we've read about in the media. So we're going to be a little bit careful, I think, by drawing that kind of bastant conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1440	We should also be careful to draw bastant conclusions in the other direction – that the minimum price has not had anything to say about this. When you operate in a market, there is, of course, a relationship between what you buy a product for and what you can sell a product for. So that's probably both ways. My question to the Council of State could then be: Will the Council of State categorically reject the fact that the minimum price may have had something to do with the fact that some people have had financial problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1450	What I think the representative Nesvik and the undersigned can agree on is that it has at least been very challenging, and that many have had financial challenges. But with regard to the relatively few bankruptcies that I have an overview of, the actors themselves have said that there are other reasons. The most important thing is to look forward. It is not to be overlooked that the situation in 2009 and 2010 has been challenging, both for the sea, that is, for fishermen, and for the land, for reasons beyond the control of this room. This applies not least to the industry itself. I am proud of what the Government has done – call it crisis solutions in difficult situations. I think that has at least contributed to the fact that the wheels have gone significantly better than they would otherwise have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1458	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the word on case 2. [[See page 3211]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1476	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be a change of line after the speakers who have the floor within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1485	I will be brief in this matter. I will explain the position of the majority, and I expect the minority to explain its position on this matter. There has been a long-standing desire from several teams for a co-fishing scheme due to a number of factors, such as: low profitability and not least because of the safety aspect of the smallest fleet. On 22 February this year, a temporary co-ordination system was put in place after a very short consultation period. The recommendations of the Norwegian Fisheries Team for the scheme were followed, except that no co-fishing with the same owner is permitted, because a co-fishing scheme has similar features to the previous operating system, as it implies that quotas from two vessels are fished with one. The operating scheme was terminated because it was almost a pure-bred scheme for annual quota trading and thus poorly aligned with the principles of normal quota allocation and other structural policies used. With this Document 8, the Progress Party and the Right want a rematch in a way. These batches want an extension so that the system can be used when owning more vessels. It also means co-fishing with itself, in a way. It would also be desirable to ensure that the scheme also applies to the open group. In this round, it is entirely inappropriate to extend this scheme. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party and the Right, therefore considers that what is requested by the proposers in the proposal has been respected. Otherwise, I refer to the letter of reply from the Council of State of 12 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1501	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1504	First of all, I would like to say that it is positive that we have put in place a synopsis system. I'll get more into it in my main post in a little while. One of the reasons we wanted to get this in place was the security aspect. Another reason why it was the industry's profitability. In the case of fish resources, fish stocks, how much can be fished is managed through a quota area. If two people each have their own boat and want to fish together, they are now allowed to do so, from a security perspective and an economic perspective. However, if the same owner has two boats, you will require that once you have fished up the quota for one boat, you have to go back in, change the boat and go out with the other boat to take the quota for it. My question to the representative Lillian Hansen is this: does the representative think this is sensible, from an environmental and economic point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1511	That's exactly what I was into in my post – why it's not desirable to go further, based on the scheme that was. Then you might want it to be different. But this scheme came into force very quickly, after a short consultation period. After what I have registered, it is only the element on which the representative Nesvik is involved that is not included in this scheme. Otherwise, I perceive that both the Norwegian Fisheries Team and others are actually very satisfied with that arrangement, as it turned out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1516	It's just the industry itself that has come up with ideas about exactly this perspective, which means that some things fall outside the scheme, because you just exclude owners who have two boats. It's the industry that has recorded this. I also think that the representative has been recorded here, both from the media and his own home country. In my example, I asked the representative about the following: you own two boats, and they both have quotas. If we then see this from an environmental/climate perspective, does the representative think it makes sense that once you have fished with one boat, you have to drag the distance back – perhaps into the fjord where you belong – to pick up a new boat to fish in the same place, but on a different basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1521	Firstly, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Progress Party is concerned about climate, especially in this matter. That's very good. This government will not go further in this round, precisely because of what I was in my post – namely, that if we open up the scheme that Nesvik wants, it will almost become a pure-bred scheme for annual quota trading. It does not want this government in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1526	The profitability of the fishing fleet is sometimes strenuous. For many fishing boat owners, co-fishing would have provided a better financial performance, thereby providing the shipowners with economic muscles to make a serious need for environmental renewal of the fleet. The scheme would result in fewer trips back and forth to the fishing ground, thus triggering an environmental benefit that should have been of great interest to the red-green government, which wants to appear as world leaders in the environment. Does the representative, Mr Hansen, not see that a cooperative system would serve not only the fishermen's financial interests, which in itself is very important, but would also make an important contribution to the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1533	I think it is very good that we get this environmental perspective in this case – it is very good. When this system arrived, it was actually not the most important reason why they took over the co-fishing system and tried to get it in place; there were strong signals from the fishing industry for a difficult time. The Minister for Fisheries has done an excellent job. I am aware that she has worked for a very long time on this, and she has made a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1539	When there was no other starting point than what is now available, which was the reason, I must be allowed to ask another question to the representative. I have heard that fishing boat owners have had both eight and eleven boats in the same field, took a tiny little quota each, and then pulled back in. Does Mr Hansen think that this is a sensible environmental policy? And is that sensible economic policy for fishermen and shipowners?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1546	I am aware that exactly what is now said has been raised as a problem issue. I expect the Minister for Fisheries today or at another time to explain exactly how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1551	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1554	I want to start by commending the Council of State because they quickly set up a co-fishing system. This is a problem that has been going on for some years. The importance of getting a system in place has been made known regularly, and it is not possible to put it under the chair that the best argument was the security aspect. Let's take the safety aspect, and this solves a lot of what we used in this proposal. With regard to the economic perspective, there is also a basis for the co-fishing system, and it is clear that it solves the problems for some, i.e.: if you co-fish with others – like people who have their own boats with each other’s allowances – it will solve many of their problems. But it's obvious that some fall outside. And then we can discuss how to attack it – in what way. I have full respect for the views of the Council of State as a first starting point, as there has been an urgent need to get the system in place. So in many ways, as an opposition, we're already going to want to go further. I hope, at least, that the Council of State will take along the proposals that lie here, even if they are voted down today. When the arrangement falls into place and it has worked for some time, we will surely see that others are coming and knocking on the door and saying that we have to try to go a little further. I believe that there is no argument related to the quota, because it is about being able to co-fish, preferably between two boats that have quotas. The resource bit solves them through the quota system, except where you have free fishing. In addition, it is controlled through the quota egi. After the day we were in this room yesterday, I think it's a little interesting that the representative Lillian Hansen is happy that we're the other people who care about the environment. After hearing the Prime Minister and the excuses here yesterday, I understand that you want to try that variant. But it's an environmental perspective, because it has to do with, among other things, developing. fishing boats, get technology going. Then research and development comes into the picture. If you have a person who owns more boats, collecting the quotas could make us room for investment, for example. green propulsion of a fishing boat, or a more stationary propeller system enabling more efficient fishing. There are also many positive shades to take with you. This time I'm not going to forget to promote our proposal, so I'm going to deal with the proposal that we have in the vote, and the one that we're with others about. I realized that the president was promoting our proposal, and I appreciate it very much. So then the proposal in the previous case was also taken up. One of the proposals we have is that we ask the Government to consider extending the co-fishing system. We hope at least that you will look at this, and it is possible that you will gain some experience with what is already there, but I look forward to testing this scheme now. So I hope that we can move forward one step in the long term. But I'm going to repeat it again, because you don't do it too often: I'm going to give tribute to the Council of State for taking action quickly when she took over as Minister of Fisheries and Coast, and then we're going to hope that the system will be expanded later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1573	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1576	First, I have to be allowed to draw attention to the moor-bench. Have you seen so much orange and blue staff for a temporary third place? As explained by the rapporteur, the background to the Right’s proposal is the difficult situation of industry and fleets when the aftermath of the financial crisis began in 2008 and 2009. Right-wing calls for measures to increase the profitability and security of the Norwegian coastal fleet. The market is, as we learned in the previous case, governing raw material prices, and then the cost level of the fleet is the simplest tool to look at to create profitable operation. It's a little joyous, but no more, that the government will meet us a little bit, and I have to face the arguments that we're doing a rematch here. In fact, we are allowed to make suggestions even when we believe that what is put on the table is not good enough. What you come with now is nothing but a maximum temporary arrangement. It is a co-fishing scheme, but it is warned that this should not last for long – it is not a testing scheme, it is warned that it is a temporary scheme. There is every reason to be critical of all temporary arrangements within the fisheries management. The undersigned and the Council of State have agreed on several occasions in this Chamber that long-term and foreseeable framework conditions are important for industrial activities. Unlike the discussion I had with the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and I agree that seafood-related activities are industrial activities. So we've said that long-termity and predictability are important for this industry. Then it is strange to observe the number of temporary and unforeseeable regulations mentioned by the Council of State that are willing to publish: the co-operation mechanism is under discussion here today. The displacement of the time for by-catch fishing is another, allocation and withdrawal of 30 pst. overregulation only in three weeks is a third. Long-termity and predictability are not just words we're going to adorn ourselves with in this room. They should be, to the most extent, fundamental values in the management of fisheries. That is why, from the Right, we have proposed that the Council of State should also look at an open-group joint-fishing trial scheme. That is why we are asking for the co-fishing system in the closed group to be made permanent. Therefore, the Right Council of State is asking for a clean-up of the injustices that occurred within the same length group when the forerunner Helga Pedersen made an attempt to stop the structuring and ended up in something that became an art break. Last but not least, we ask the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with an investigation into a structure scheme for a closed group of less than 11 meters. This representative had the pleasure of participating with Lillian Hansen from the Labour Party when the Nordic Council debated the EU Green Paper on the new fisheries policy. There, the representative, Hansen, made a flaming contribution in which she praised Norwegian structural policy in high order. It was a pleasure to hear Mr. Hansen's contributions, explaining the important role played by the structural system in Norway in creating greater profitability in the fleet. It was absolutely necessary to operate a sustainable resource management, said representative Hansen down in Copenhagen. When we can tell the EU how dependent the management is on a profitable fishing fleet, I believe that we should actually think and say the same at home. To conclude, if there are any suggestions left to address that the representative Nesvik has not taken up, I will address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1595	The President is pleased that all proposals are being made. The representative, Frank Bakke Jensen, has addressed the proposals. 4 and 5, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1598	On 22 February the government introduced a temporary ship co-operation scheme of less than 11 metres. These arrangements were put in place at the request of fishermen, and were implemented in close cooperation with their fishermen's organisations. The background to the co-fishing system was a desire to increase the safety of fishing. The system has worked according to purpose, and good feedback has been received from fishermen. As in all such schemes, it will be difficult, but important, border crossings. Therefore, it is useful to discuss the matter and justify the choices made when it concerns the limitation of the scheme. The case spokesperson has given a good introduction to the background of the solution chosen and the limit rise that has been made. Questions have been raised as to whether the scheme does not include co-fishing with boats with the same owners. But as many people have come up with, it's an extension that raises important questions of principle. Co-fishing for boats with the same owners will be the same as re-establishing the previous operating arrangements in the coastal fleet. There is a system that has been phased out and there is no reason to reintroduce it. SV is pleased that the Government, in close cooperation with the fishing organisations, quickly established a good co-ordination system, and we believe that it is a good regime that is the basis for the implementation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1607	The centre party is engaged in a fishing industry contributing to activity and employment across the coast, and that the value creation of our common fisheries resources should benefit the fisheries-dependent coastal communities as far as possible. It is therefore important that we have a fisheries policy that follows these objectives. With regard to the proposal for a representative for the co-fishing of the coastal fleet put forward, we in the Central Party and the majority of the Committee consider that this has been achieved through the arrangements put in place by the Minister for Fisheries and Coast on 22 February 2010. A temporary joint-fishing system for vessels of less than 11 metres in length, applicable in 2010. The background to the implementation of this scheme is that last year's cod season was too bad for many. The economy of fishermen has been weakened and the outlook for 2010 is similarly weak. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has explained this by letter of 12 March to the Economic and Social Committee. In that letter, the Council of State sets out a series of measures implemented against both the fishing industry and fishermen in order to ensure the most normal implementation of fisheries. Recent developments in the cod sector have made it clear that small vessels also need framework conditions and mechanisms to ensure that fishermen have a job that is comparable to that of other businesses, both in terms of safety, working environment and economics. The temporary system of joint fishing will contribute both to improving the safety of fishermen on board ships and to improved profitability. I would also like to refer to debates in Stortinget before Christmas where measures for the fishing industry were the subject. In this context, I would like to point out that profitability is important throughout the value chain of the fishing industry, and that this year in particular is the fishing fleet that seems to be meeting a challenging time. The centre party is therefore committed to monitoring developments closely, and we will consider the need for new measures if this proves necessary. We also have close contact with many actors in the industry and get feedback on the situation. I would also like to point out that the Government has a close dialogue with industry and that if the situation so warrants, any new measures aimed at the industry will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1625	My question is based on the contribution of the representative Lange Nordahl, where she indicated that the co-fishing system should now be put in place – at least she argued this way – only had to do with the cod season and low prices, i.e. the economic system. Then I have to ask the representative Lange Nordahl the following question: With that as a starting point, why do you not want a fisherman who owns two boats to collect the quotas and use one boat for fishing? It must be much more economic than that he uses two boats? Why should this person be excluded from the co-fishing system, when the representative himself uses the economy as an argument that the co-fishing system should be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1633	In the context of the co-fishing system and the discussion about what is needed to achieve profitability in the industry, one must also be aware of the possible consequences of different schemes. The background to the fact that the centre batch is not willing to enter for co-fishing for the same owner is that the co-fishing system will then have similarities with the previous operating system. It could almost be a pure-bred system for annual quota trading and would mean reintroducing the operating arrangements into the coastal fleet, and we do not want that in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1640	Here I think that the representative has to help me a little. She refers to the previous operating regime and that she is afraid of trading in allowances. But it's the same person, it's the same person who has the quotas, but they're divided into two boats. I expect that the representative, Lange Nordahl, is not afraid that the person should sell the allowances to himself. So it's a person who owns two boats, but where each quota is linked up to the boat, that's one quota per. boat. The question is, why should this person, who owns two boats with different quotas, not be allowed to interact with these?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1647	That's exactly what I've been explaining. We can have many schemes in several variants. The same can be discussed when it comes to structuring vessels below 11 metres. If you go into such schemes, the consequences will be completely different from what you initially pointed out. The centre party opposes the structuring of that fleet. It is important to be careful about the possible consequences of such schemes. Therefore, the Council of State has come with the current arrangement and it is temporary. It is important for us in the Center Party to stress that there is a temporary arrangement, which will apply for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1656	It was interesting to hear that the representative stressed that this was a temporary arrangement. There have been members of the red-green coalition here who have rallied the co-fishing, and said that it is right, etc. Can I understand the representative of the Central Party so that from the point of view of the Centre Party, this is a maximum temporary arrangement and that it should be removed when the period is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1661	The central party is concerned that this is a temporary solution and a mechanism put in place by the Council of State. Then you will have to consider how to possibly follow up this at the end of the year. But we will underline ‘temporary’ and that it was the basis for us to be able to participate in and support the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1669	Co-fishing is a wide-ranging theme. Norway’s Fiskerlag believes that a co-fishing scheme for coastal vessels should be established below 11 metres. Many fishermen, especially in the smallest groups of vessels, believe that operational cooperation should be possible without the purchase, sale or rental of allowances between vessels. This is said to have a positive impact on safety at sea, by being able to carry more men and have cost savings in terms of rigging and equipment. I think they're right about that. The Government has adopted a temporary arrangement for co-fishing for vessels less than 11 metres. The scheme was launched on 22 February of this year. The Christian People's Party believes that the temporary arrangement adopted takes care of the security aspect. We want to see the impact of the change that has been introduced before we address other changes to the co-fishing legislation. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is in dialogue with the industry and that any new measures will be taken if necessary. Fishing resources shall provide a basis for employment both at sea and on land. It is important that delivery obligations are enforced. The coastal fleet, with its proximity to the consignee, has good conditions for delivering fish to Norwegian processing. The Christian People's Party believes that the allocation of allowances should focus more on creating local jobs, both at sea and on land. Renewal of the fishing fleet is important, but renewal must avoid the need for much larger quotas to remunerate the investments. It is important to ensure that young people are able to enter the industry and start as fishermen without major investments in boats and equipment. Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team asks the authorities to implement financial support measures aimed at fishing fleets in the light of the dramatic decline in the price of whitefish. The price of fish has been reduced by 30-40 pst. in recent years, and Norway’s coastal fishing fleet fears the impact on the fishing fleet and on the private economy of fishermen. With regard to the liquidity situation of the coastal fleet, to which the proposers also point, the Christian People's Party is concerned that the liquidity facility must provide the borrowers with conditions that make it function properly. It is therefore necessary to amend the main principles of the legislation in our view in order to allow the companies in crisis to benefit from it in a practical way. The need for this is clear from the contacts of the industry itself and the opinions of the NHO, LO, municipalities and county councils, all of which ask for greater flexibility in terms of conditions. The loan scheme must focus not only on an industry in great difficulty but on the many small communities that depend on the functioning of small and large corner stone holdings in the fishing industry. It is crucial for local communities to ensure that enterprises with market and profitability opportunities can survive the crisis in the long term. Then it must be possible to accept that the State is taking a slightly higher risk. The Christian People's Party believes that both the possibility of longer repayment periods, where applicable, less favourable interest rates and not least a less rigid attitude to the fact that ordinary operating loan banks should give way to collateral for existing or new loans must be part of the work of the Government to amend the main principles of the rules governing the lending regime – as far as possible within the framework of international law. We have therefore proposed in Stortinget to change the main principles of the Loan Code so that loans can be made more flexible in terms of instalments, interest rates and collateral. This must be considered as a temporary arrangement which is not intended to replace ordinary operating credits. As far as the proposal for a representative is concerned, we want, as I said, to see the impact of the recent change from the Government before we address other changes to the co-fishing legislation. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the majority vote, that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1692	The requirement for co-fishing has been promoted over a long period of time with main reasons for increasing safety and improving fleet profitability. On that basis, I decided on 22 February to set up a temporary joint-fishing system for vessels below 11 m of length of the base applicable in 2010. The final framework for the scheme was established after a brief consultation, on which I attach the highest importance to the safety aspect. Today's legislation, even without a co-ordination system, allows shipowners to cooperate in the fishing of quotas, whether they fish in an open or closed group. The assumption is that both vessels that have been allocated the quota must be used. The safety aspect of fewer fishes alone can therefore be addressed despite the restrictions adopted for the scheme. With regard to the profitability of the fleet, the loss of revenue resulting from a reduction in the price of fishermen has been compensated to some extent by the increase in the annual allowances and increased landings among the smallest vessels. This has benefited many, not just the co-fishing vessels. During the examination of the issue of co-fishing, there were some fundamental and practical questions. Among other things, they relate to the rental of allowances, whether the scheme is verifiable and who is to be included. The co-ordination system has similarities with the previous operating system, as it implies that the quotas of two vessels are fished with one. The operating scheme was terminated because it was a nearly pure-bred scheme for annual allowance trading and was therefore poorly aligned with the principles of the ordinary allocation of allowances and the other structural policies used. The scheme was designed in such a way that it would not be possible to activate passive quota vessels which could contribute to increased quota utilisation at the expense of others in the regulatory group. This is the background to the fact that no co-fishing is allowed for vessels with the same owner, but a system that ensures that active owners are on board and fish the quotas in cooperation for increased security. However, I have noticed the proposal from the minority to allow co-fishing between vessels with the same owner, including shipping companies with several boats, as well as for fishermen participating in an open group. In the case of an open group, this is an open fishery, free to participate in the fishing. However, in the case of an open-group synopsis system, it has to be assumed that a number of passive vessels will be able to be activated as allowances and thereby increase the pressure on the group quota. A synopsis system is likely to contribute to much greater activity in an open group, thereby undermining the basis for such an open fisheries. This is the background to the fact that the open group has not been included in the co-fishing scheme. It has been a good cod fishing with good availability in winter, and it has been fishing a considerable quantity in a short time. As a result, fishing at the maximum quota had to be stopped in order not to overfish the group quota. However, vessels which have not fished their guaranteed quota may continue to fish within it, irrespective of the stoppage in the fishing. Catch of cod from 49 participating vessels has been delivered in the co-fishing system, i.e.: 98 vessels or owners have been involved in the co-fishing system. To date, 1493 tonnes of cod have been delivered over 510 landings from passive quota-making vessels through the combined fisheries system to a total value of 12,8 million. kr. The co-ordination system has contributed to a greater share of the group quota for vessels below 11 m being fished by more vessels than has otherwise been involved in the fishing. The co-ordination system has also contributed to increased efficiency, so that the group quota was fished faster than without a co-ordination system. The co-operation system has thus contributed to an earlier cessation of fishing for the smallest fleet. The government presented its structural policy in St.meld. No 21 for 2006-2007, structural policy for the fishing fleet. This policy is firm. As a structural instrument, the smallest vessels have only had access to a conditioning system. This one has now expired. In the work on the structural issues, we have to take into account that these relate to a dynamic reality. This means that what was sufficient at one time might need to be adjusted later. In addition to strengthening safety, the temporary co-fishing system for vessels less than 11 metres in length has also been beloved for some financial reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1730	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1733	My question to the Council of State will be about this with State aid, or subsidies to the fishing industry. It was the representative of the Christian People's Party who was involved in the economics and whether the state should take a greater part of the burden etc. I would strongly warn against once again turning the fishing industry into a subsidy industry. I would also like to remind you that, in the context of the Green Paper on the EU fisheries policy, the Government and the Storting had to put a stop to the EU's subsidy policy on the fishing industry, and it says, in fact, that it had to be stopped by a given date. I think it makes sense, because it's clear that we need a diet that can stand on our own. Will the Council confirm that the Government will pursue a policy that will continue to ensure that the fishing industry is the healthy and good industry as it is and without subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1742	I can assure you that I am very concerned that we are going to have a forward-looking fishing industry. It is crucial for the future of the coast; it is crucial for the future of the nation. Many people ask what we're going to survive for oil and gas. We have a lot of fish in the ocean. We're going to develop that industry to become even more important to the nation. Then we have some international framework conditions that we should not challenge. We know what it means to be subjected to accusations in this area – through the salmon industry. The industry is absolutely capable of developing on its own keel. We have now been through a period that has shown that it was necessary to implement very special measures. We have done so, and, as I said in the previous case, I am proud that we have a government that did so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1750	We have experienced an historic good fishing in cod fisheries this winter. As the Council correctly points out, in fact, very much of the quota is already confiscated. An instrument introduced to extend the season and to ensure that other species of fish were also included over the year was the by-catch system. It was used to start from June to July, sometimes in August, and then gradually introduced the percentage of cod. I'm recording that the ministry has already introduced by-catch fishing, and now it's getting such a shape that those who haven't been able to fish up their quota now have to catch a cap to finish it, so that they can be allowed to participate in by-catch fishing. This is somewhat contrary to the peach-fish strategy of the Government, which says to try to make fresh raw material available throughout the year. My question to the Council of State will be: have the fresh fish strategy now been abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1759	No, we have definitely not phased out the fresh fish strategy, that was just one of the reasons why we had to open up the by-catch system a little earlier than what was planned, and to some extent also desirable. But out of respect for having fish available throughout – hopefully – the whole year, I actually saw it as necessary to open it up. So is the situation of the lost fleet, as it is about here today, that it must be allowed to fish the fish when it is closest to the country. Both of these reasons meant that we had to open up the by-catch system. So it's a challenge that nature has made it so that the cod is close to land only parts of the year, while one has to go further to sea other parts of the year. It's a question that I would like to discuss with both the Right and the Other how to solve. We don't have nature, and what kind of instruments to use to extend cod availability, I don't have an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1766	Perhaps the Council of State can consider a change in the quota year. Now we start the quota year at the same time as the Spring Lord sends all the raw material in, available for the fleet. If we could imagine that on some of the nice plans and graphs started the quota year on 1 September, we'll get the top about the middle of the quota year. It might make the management of this easier, and it's more natural for the fleet to stretch the season a little bit. At least you don't depend on participating in a race fishing in order to be allowed to participate in the next part of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1771	The quota year and the start and end of it have been discussed in many contexts. Many other elements have also been brought to the square. In any case, we do not get away from the fact that the cod is upland at a time of year when the smallest fleet can get hold of it. I would like to discuss many different elements in order to achieve the goal of increasing processing and getting a greater degree of instruments to make good use of the fresh fish strategy. I definitely don't think the quota year is the only answer, and I'm not sure if that's the answer at all. What I have been concerned about now in the context of what we are really discussing today, the co-fishing system, is the possibility of being two on board, which I said is primarily justified in the security aspect, but which is something that has proven to have had an aspect of profitability. The challenge remains to get a lot of cod on land in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1780	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3211]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1803	Even the best intentions can be difficult to balance with poor results. This is why it helps so little that the Prime Minister of yesterday's Question Time repeated that Norway is the world leader in climate policy, when it is clear to everyone that the government's climate policy is raging at all ends at the same time. The moon landing is postponed, the climate notification is suspended, Enova is slaughtered by the National Audit Office, and the trading of allowances is associated with significant uncertainty – to mention something. As it looks now, it is unfortunately going to be very difficult for the Government to meet the commitments in the climate agreement to cut 30 pst. of Norway’s emissions by 2020, of which two-thirds will be taken home. However, there are points of light that can help us to achieve goals, while at the same time helping to create new sustainable jobs within an important forward-looking industry for Norway. If we play our cards right, the climate challenge doesn't just have to be a problem for Norway; it might as well be an important opportunity. The IT industry has a high potential to contribute to the fight to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, the industry’s potential has been ignored and neglected in the work on Climate Change 2020. Therefore, it is my hope and challenge to the Government that Norway will put in place a comprehensive strategy for the use of ICT in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The potential is enormous. In the EU, it is claimed that ICT use can reduce emissions by 20 pst. without other measures. There is a formidable number, although there is a great difference between a theoretical potential and feasible policy acceptable measures. In Germany, even further progress has been made. Smart 2020, a project co-financed by the German Ministry of Transport, claims that the use of IT can reduce emissions by as much as 25 pst. by 2020. It represents more than 200 tonnes of CO2 equivalent in Germany, or approximately. four times the annual emissions of Norway. There is no reason to believe that there is no high potential in Norway as well. We don't know that until the potential is established, but identifying a potential is only half the job. The other half is to trigger it. It requires a review of framework conditions, regulations and economic incentives related to how we live, work, live and consume goods and services. Without the undersigned or my party having concluded in the matter, it can, for example, be relevant to ask whether it is appropriate to favour car transport rather than home offices for tax purposes. In the last 30 years, there have been twice as many commuters in Norway. During the same period, the number of work that can be done from home has exploded. Then we have to ask ourselves whether it makes sense for the government to favour commuters, while the government wants to remove tax deductions from the employer’s home office and broadband, which means that the polluting option comes out better than the environmentally friendly option. We see the same thing in the tax favorization of paper-based rather than electronic literature. Newspapers and books have VAT exemptions in Norway, but also purchase aid and press support in addition to VAT exemptions. We're a small country with a small language, so there's probably good reasons why the system is like that. But at the same time, it's strange that if you get in the car and drive a mile to the bookstore, you should avoid VAT if you buy a paperbook or an audiobook on the CD. But if you leave the car and choose to download the same book on audio file, you pay 25 pst. VAT. The first is a book, the second is a favor. That makes sense! A third example, which should perhaps be considered in more detail, is the tax preference for job travel rather than distance work and telephone or video conferencing. Different diet performances, bonus credits for travel abroad and the tax-free scheme contribute to the favouring of business travel at the expense of distance work and teleconferencing. Obviously, there are good reasons for many of these arrangements. But what we need is an overall review where we also put the climate perspective in place as an important premise. Perhaps we will then conclude that there is a need to make changes in some of these areas. We have to ask ourselves whether we systematically base today's carbon-based lifestyle on the climate action we put in place, or whether we have a goal of encouraging the replacement of polluting goods with non-polluting goods. In any case, it would be unfortunate that there are concrete examples of the systematic discrimination of environmentally friendly alternatives at the expense of the polluting alternatives. However, there is no doubt that the major infrastructures have the most access to IT, whether in the transport, construction or energy sectors. A good example from the transport sector is the NVE and Grieg Shipping pilot project, partly funded by the Research Council, where the objective is to improve efficiency through IT. The project shall improve ship-port communication and reduce the time when ships are on idle outside the port, typically 6-7 pst. of time. It can in turn lead to significant reductions in emissions through significantly lower fuel consumption, both at the crossing and in the port. But it is also an export product with a significant potential. Another good example is IT-based scheduling and interconnection, among other things. The newspapers Expressen and Aftonbladet in Sweden. They have reduced the number of vehicles on the road by 25 pst. In the energy sector, the development of ‘smart grids’ and the possibility for consumers to follow and manage actual energy consumption through the use of modern communication channels will be important contributions to the reduction of energy consumption. IT changes the way we do things, by streamlining some processes and transforming others. However, IT is also a basic green industry with very low emissions compared to the values generated by the industry. In addition, as the example above shows, IT can undoubtedly help to make other industries greener. Here there are both business opportunities and climate gains. It won't hurt. After all, it's all more fun to save the world if you can make money on it at the same time. I am also convinced that it is the great commercial and technological opportunities that lie at the heart of the climate challenge that will ultimately help us to solve these issues. There is no doubt that the public has a responsibility to go ahead. It would therefore be interesting if the Council of State could say a little more about how the State itself is dealing with these questions, as well as to answer what objectives and instruments the Government is planning to use to reduce climate change emissions through the use of IT solutions. I look forward to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1844	I thank the representative Astrup for an important and very topical question, and thank you for an interesting and profound article. ICT, as the representative says, is a key element in climate policy. Estimates show that the ICT industry can help to eliminate emissions of 7.8 billion CO2 equivalent by 2020, in the rest of society. That's about. five times the expected total emissions from the ICT industry. Very much of the potential lies in smart construction, smart transport and smart energy networks. The use of ICT in these areas helps to model, make visible and control how we use resources, so that we can use them significantly more effectively. At the same time, we can replace a good part of physical transport and production with digital goods and services. The measures will aim to make the tools for such management, modelling and visualisation more attractive and accessible, and to stimulate more use of electronic goods and services that can replace the physical ones. It is estimated that the use of ICT in itself accounts for approx. 2 pst. of the CO2 emissions in Europe. It's about as much as air traffic. As responsible for the government's ICT policy, I am the first to point out that ICT is also part of the climate problem. Furthermore, the consumption and use of ICT is in strong growth. If we do not take into account expected energy efficiency improvements and technology measures from industry, the growth of emissions can be fivefold by 2020. At the same time, the low-carbon society cannot be realised without the smart use of ICT. The challenges associated with reducing climate emissions are therefore two-fold. We need to focus attention on the climate impacts of the full life cycle of ICT products, and put in place measures where they most bode well. And above all, we need to look at how we can make use of technology to realize the low-carbon society. So what will the government do? Environmental policy is sector-based. My role in this context is coordination of the government's ICT policy, also linked to climate issues. I would like to point out here some of the most important instruments and measures that are being worked on in the departments. The first thing I want to make is the renewal policy. Renewal policies are also climate policy. It can be said that good climate action is innovation, while public sector renewal must be good for the climate. Much of what we do to renew the public sector is about the transition from moving atoms, for example. paper and people, to move bits, as electronic forms and video signals. This saves time, money and the environment. Work on digitising services for business and the population has been ongoing for a long time and continues with full strength. I would like to mention in particular Altin, the work on an electronic invoice, a common electronic ID for public services and the work started on eID for businesses. Just replacing paper messages with SMS messages removes unnecessary amount of paper transport, and that's good. Systematic access to public data is important for business to produce good, smart solutions, such as: could be used to plan more energy-efficient new buildings or offer smarter passenger transport. Increased use of videoconferencing is an example of a renewable measure that is also climate friendly. So far, we haven't been good enough to use it in the public sector, but we need to get better. Another example of climate-friendly renewal is telemedicine. We can save both money and climate by avoiding transporting patients to and from specialist treatment — treatment that can in many cases be carried out by telemedicine. Then we also save patients for time-consuming and often strenuous transportation. Another instrument is public procurement. Public procurement is a major buyer, and the demands made by public authorities will have a significant impact on society in general. Diffi, Directorate for Administration and ICT, develops ecological criteria for selected product groups as a tool for purchasing processes. An example is the requirement for transport planning and logistics in the new ecological criteria for the purchase of taxi services. Purchasing is also an important means of making new buildings more energy efficient. Reducing the energy consumption of buildings is essential for climate policy in the long term. Good use of ICT provides a unique opportunity to manage and plan construction processes. Together with a number of other partners, state-building has developed BIM, digital building information models based on open standards. This tool provides an overview of all kinds of things. the environmental impact of design choices. State buildings now require this system to be used for all major construction projects, such as: the planning of the National Museum. The use of public procurement for supplier development that stimulates the smart use of ICT should be able to deliver good climate effects in the future. Lack of generally accepted standards is a major obstacle to the use of technologies. I have commissioned Divi to look at standards that can be used to promote green ICT and smart green growth. Standard work may sometimes be a rather slow task requiring international coordination. We have an example of this when it comes to the use of smart electricity meters, where responsibility lies with NVE. The NVE is now waiting for European standards to be clarified so that we can move forward with this work in Norway. The government and the public must facilitate the contribution of all social actors to the smart green use of ICT. My department has financed or co-financed several projects related to smart green growth and green ICT in the direction of business. We have worked closely with the knowledge and IT industry to promote knowledge and awareness of the topic over several years. In the construction industry, through State Building, we have contributed to making BIM a broad industrial cooperation. Similarly, the Ministry of Transport has contributed to the sector’s work by promoting intelligent transport systems, including: by supporting ITS Norway, and launched in March a strategy to promote intelligent transport systems. In addition, some basic infrastructures need to be put in place to exploit the climate potential related to the smart use of ICT. Broadband is a prerequisite for saying all of the solutions we're sketching, whether it's mobile or wired broadband. The government’s decision to provide available frequencies for mobile broadband to commercial operators is of particular importance for access to smart solutions everywhere. The government will ensure that a broadband offer throughout the country, with sufficient capacity, will also be there in the future. Furthermore, climate problems are cross-border and sometimes require cross-border solutions. My ministry is therefore involved in international work in the fields of ICT and climate, in particular through the OECD and the EU. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. But it is often the case that good innovation begins with a crisis. The transition to the low-carbon society can be a major opportunity for the ICT industry. There will be a strong innovation potential for the development of smart ICT solutions for many sectors, such as transport, construction and energy, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1888	First, let me thank the Council of State for taking the time to come here and present a good report and, in particular, a wide range of measures that the Government is working with. I am pleased that the Government takes this issue seriously. So the question of whether the Government is willing to implement an overall strategy in this area, set some national targets, involve the Storting in this work and perhaps go beyond what the state alone can do, and also discuss how the state facilitates the use of ICT by individuals to reduce their own emissions. I was, among other things, inside it, and I would like to challenge the Council of State again, how different economic incentives, taxes and taxes may contribute systematically to discriminating the environment-friendly IT solutions and instead promote the old-fashioned carbon-based lifestyle. I'd like the Council of State to come up with that. I share the concern of the Council of State that the ICT industry itself represents a high level of emissions. I see that the industry is taking very seriously. I also see Norway as part of the solution, among other things. because we have geographic benefits related to cooling data halls in mountains and other things, which can be part of the solution. I therefore call for a more comprehensive approach from the Government, and I hope that the Council of State can address whether she is willing to implement the type of strategy, setting clear goals for what the Government is going to achieve in the various areas of society, what objectives it has, and how the Government can best facilitate, not only for businesses, but also for individuals who want to use IT solutions to become environmentally friendly. With that, I thank the Council of State for taking the time, and look forward to hearing her answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1899	I am concerned that we are going to have a lively debate on what climate challenges we have in Norway. That is why my department has now carried out a number of investigations to provide us with a good knowledge of how to use ICT related to climate issues. I also feel that I have a close cooperation with the industry. I have visited many of them recently and received recordings and also discussed the need to change the framework conditions. A common challenge that I get from almost everyone I talk to is that the state has to become a demanding buyer. By being a demanding buyer, the country will also be leading the way in which we are developing within that sector in the future. That is why we have, together with KS – which is also an important player, the municipalities are very much in demand here – and the NHO has launched cooperation on supplier development related to public tenders, in order to contribute to good climate and environmental requirements in public tenders. I agree with the representative of Astrup that Norway has many natural advantages that we should take advantage of, including when we develop the IT industry, and combine it with climate action. I believe that Norwegian industry, by also being active in setting open standards for the way we use IT, and making the knowledge we have as public actors, available to business, can also help us to get good and constructive new products on the market, which I am absolutely sure will also be competitive on the rest of the European market. The government is putting a lot of money into the environment. At the latest today, it has been announced that half a billion dollars will be spent on the development of environmental technologies based on the advantages and knowledge we have in Norway relating to the major climate challenges we face. I agree that we must constantly assess which instruments are the most effective. This, of course, also applies in the field of tax policy. Therefore, it must be assessed on an ongoing basis when designing tax arrangements in the future. It will be natural for me – at least as I see it now – through the annual budget proposals to explain how far we have come. If it turns out at some point that it can be natural to involve the Storting in other ways, I'm going to come back to it, of course, but initially, the annual government budget will be a natural place for us to brief on the work and on how much progress we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1912	The representative, Astrup, is raising an important debate in the Chamber today. Technology is a very important, if not a crucial factor in coping with the greatest challenge of our time, namely the man-made climate change that is going on every single day on our planet. Besides the climate challenges, the job of getting millions of people out of poverty is the greatest task of our time. In these two political tasks, there is initially an inherent conflict. Historically, increased purchasing power has led to increased consumption and increased pressures on the climate and the environment. So the big question we're facing is, how are we going to combine and unite these two fundamentally important goals? I believe that the answer to this question is closely related to the theme that travels in this interpellation. Technology and technological development are the tools that enable us to achieve both these two objectives in the future. I am aware that this example that I am now going to use has been used in this room before, but I think it is so good that I still dare to repeat it. At the end of the 1980s, the major challenge was holes in the ozone layer due to refrigerators and all these things. The solution was not to ban refrigerators, but to develop new technologies for the refrigerators. The same was true years ago when we had problems with the release of phosphate from detergents to clothes. The solution was not to prohibit washing clothes, but to manufacture detergents without phosphate. These are examples of technology developments that have solved environmental challenges. In the same way that we have solved these challenges, we need to solve the climate challenges. In the long run, mankind must live its lives within the limits set by ecology. There is no alternative – we have no other choice. We have just set behind us a period when large parts of European aviation were paralyzed as a result of the volcanic eruption in Iceland. At the same time, the technical environmental reports for our northern seas were to be presented. The presentation of these reports was originally to take place in North Norway, but the absence of air traffic led to the government's physical attachment in Oslo, while the trade unions were located up in Tromsø. For practical purposes, a video link was used – an orderly one of those things and got it up – and many then had a pretty big aha experience in connection with this presentation. Video link technology worked very well, and it turned out that transporting many people by aircraft was actually not necessary to carry out that event. The technology saved the climate for emissions, and the parties involved significantly reduced their time use in the submission in relation to what they should have done. This is one concrete everyday example that shows us that there are also many opportunities in the climate challenges, if we just dare to rethink and do ordinary things differently. This is happening, and it has happened, much in terms of technology development, which will lead to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Today it is more and more common to regulate the temperature to e.g. heating using thermostat or with automatic night lowering of temperatures. We will see in a few years that advanced measurement and management systems are being implemented in Norwegian households. These smart meters that can communicate will be an important piece to make smart energy management in Norwegian homes simple, cheap and widespread. In the context of the smart energy solution ecosystem, there is also a significant industrial potential. We are good and have great competence in the energy sector in Norway. We therefore have very good prerequisites for getting good in the field of climate-related technology. Energy and climate emissions are closely linked, and therefore our competence is very important. Today, major technological advances are taking place in a number of areas that contribute to reducing emissions. The cars use less fuel, and we will have a beautiful day to get a future car that does not emit greenhouse gases. We can, as I have said, conclude meetings via video links. We get smarter construction and housing, and we get smarter transport. In fact, today it is more and more common for more people to find the great love of different online communities, and that technology has helped us to a warmer society – for some it is a society where there are no emissions. So we can enjoy that. So we have to exploit the industrial potential of technological development in the future. I know with certainty that the Council of State and the Government will facilitate the securing of existing jobs and the further development of new ones so that we will be in the forefront of what the interpellant is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1944	More love and less greenhouse gas emissions are a great delivery gel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1947	The Storting climate agreement made ambitious demands on emissions. In recent years, we have seen that the government is making decisions that make these reductions difficult. The recent announcement that in Mongstad, as the interpellant also mentioned, emissions have been exposed, leads to the need to make changes in other areas, so that we can save the climate. We also have a fresh memory of the biodiesel case from last autumn, which does not necessarily contribute to a better climate. ICT is a fast-developing industry that helps to solve many societal challenges in a rational way for us. The gain is not only economical and practical, but it is most relevant to the environment. I'm aware that the Council of State has an eye for that – whether we're going to use that expression. When the committee was visiting the Council of State, we got an overview of the staff working with ICT for daily use. I also think the Council of State today has shown that she has thoughts that it is important to modernise society in the way that ICT is used to a much greater extent. But many of us are impatient in this context. The interpellant mentioned this with a home office. If you're going to have a home office, you have to have a broadband. It's pretty good in the Oslo region and also in some of the larger cities, but it's not that good in rural areas yet. I have addressed this with the Minister of Transport, who could not give a good answer to it. But at least my question is: what does the Minister intend to do to speed up broadband development in rural areas? Another issue that has also been mentioned earlier today is that of videoconferencing. When I take flights between Oslo and Værnes this weekend, I ask myself if it is really necessary for so many people to travel so much – that meat and blood are to be transported through the air in order to be able to talk to other people in another place. Personally, I experienced a different world in the past. When I was working in NATO ten years ago, we had a video conference between headquarters, and there was almost no personnel transfer between headquarters. We know that today it has evolved far further. When I was on vacation a year ago, I had a daily conference with my vice-president on Skype. Although that picture was not as sharp as what you can get on modern equipment, it was useful. I could actually see his facial expression, which could reflect by day had been good or bad. So there are possibilities. Another thing is healthcare, which I was so lucky to get some insight into the other day. Only in Akershu County, 4000 A4 pages are printed and burned every day. The transfer of information from the specialist health service to the county doctor results in writing that comes, scanning it into the computer, processing it on the computer, printing it out again to send it back to the health care company, and then burning the old copy, and when it gets there, you scan it again. It's amazing how you manage to use a lot of energy on something – not to talk about the air transport in North Norway, where because of large restrictions, there's a lot of transport by aircraft that are connected to healthcare, in many cases where it's completely unnecessary to transport the person from A to B. State councils referred to telemedicine. I guess there's no doubt: it's been used somewhere, but it's very, very little yet. It's an enormous potential for improving this. I can mention some other small things, such as the use of LED lights. The gardening industry at the place where I came from, tried to use LED lights a year ago. They tried to get a support scheme from Enova, but it didn't work out because it was too small. So there's some rules there that it's pretty hard to understand. So it's about framework conditions, regulation, economic incentives and an overall strategy, which was also addressed before today. However, pending the overall strategy, it is possible to get started. I have to be allowed to mention another example. When I was going to cancel my ticket from the NSB the other day, it was not possible to do so online. I had to drive a car to the station and meet personally and stand in line for 20 minutes to cancel a ticket. This has to be easier. Now the Council of State said it is cross-border – yes, most of it to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1970	Yesterday a big point was made that the entry of SV representatives in Stortinget’s Question Time was falling along the way. In particular, there were some progress party representatives I met at Stortinget later that day. In such a light, it is timely to point out that the Progress Party does not even meet for debate on such an important theme as the interpellant Nikolai Astrup has traveled. Because that's a good interpellation from the Right. ICT is not well-managed in climate change, so I hope that both this initiative and the thorough consultation process we all have on climate change cures will help raise that issue better. So this is a question of Norwegian industrial policy. Norwegian Tandberg is the world leader in video conference technology. The recent ash crisis showed the value and potential of such a technology. At the latest today, I met the rapporteur in Tynset – who is an SV municipality – in talks, among others. whether the representative Myraune was involved, namely projects with LED lights, which can save us a lot of energy, and which are smart. I have to say, however, that when the Right-Interpellants check themselves as they do in such articles, it is not very dressy. I'll just brief in Mongstad, as the interpellant mentioned. A year ago, the bourgeois opposition said that a postponement of Mongstad was okay, if it was necessary to give the engineers more time. Today, distrust is raging. A few years ago, Snow White was built by a right-wing government, with no ambition to clean up, and the civilised Norway had nothing more to report in climate policy than an increase in Norwegian emissions. No later than Tuesday, the Right in the Energy and Environment Committee argued against what they call ‘sondernormous emission rules’ preventing the start-up of several gas power plants in Norway. Right-hand double communication flashes like a blue LED light in the climate debate. The same thing we see a little bit in the discussion about ICT and climate, and I'll come back a little bit later. The government has doubled the bet on the expansion of broadband compared to the citizens, so that we now have more than 99 pst. coverage in Norway. The digitisation of the public sector has been an important strategy for the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, both under the direction of the SVs and the Workers' Party. Norway has also come a long way with Altinn and so on. We've also got our own directorate for ICT and administration, instead of just like the Right would, to privatize Statskonsult. This is important for public governance with important infrastructure. In transport, we have made intelligent transport systems a bet area, i.e. technologies to promote efficient transport and green transport solutions such as: intelligent bombings and rush time charges. I'd like to challenge the interpellant Nikolai Astrup on that. I wonder if the Right takes the consequences of that hinting at ICT solutions in transport, which the interpellant itself is involved in. The most obvious and effective way to use information technology to intelligently lower car consumption is through the use of road pricing and rush time charges. I hope that the Right gets a more positive view of that. There is no doubt that politically we must get away from the fossil society. That means we have to stop building difficult roads, and we have to stop promoting increased traffic and air traffic. Instead, we need to focus on green solutions such as lightning, public transport, green energy and ICT solutions where they can reduce emissions. We also need ICT itself to use more and more of the world's energy, and therefore we cannot have an uncritical approach to that debate. ICT stands for 2 pst today. the global climate emissions. The interpellant itself was at some point ahead of Norway in relation to the cooling of server parks, etc. That is an important part of this debate. I have a very strong sense of interpellant reasoning relating to a less carbon-based economy. It is also a solidarity position, for it means that poor and less developed countries will face a greater share of global emissions. I would nevertheless challenge the Right whether they take the consequences of this rhetoric also in terms of oil policy. If we are to follow the inter-pellant's reasoning, it will also be natural that there are others, poorer and worse-off countries than Norway who are going to have the right to extract and make money on more oil and gas in the future. It is not in keeping with the continuous desire of the Right to open new areas. Finally, during the power crisis, SV was alone talking about smarter metering systems and differential electricity prices. Then the right one had the chance to raise this perspective. They didn't. Then they only talked about mobile gas plants. I challenge the Right to also talk about ICT and the environment when it really applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e1991	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss an exciting topic. It is, as many people have said, a great potential to cut greenhouse gas emissions using ICT. I feel a bit party-politically obliged to start with infrastructure, because it is the case that there should be a possibility to realise this potential, the infrastructure must be in place, as the representative Myraune was also involved. When the late Mayor Odd Roger Enoksen spoke about broadband to the districts and digital all-man rights at the end of the 1990s, he laughed and caricature drawings in the largest newspaper in the country. I think today, most people would say that not only was it right to get started when one did, but the pace has not been high enough, and there are still great challenges in securing the infrastructure to be put in place. I hope the interpellant also agrees that this is so important infrastructure that where the market does not sort out, we need other systems to ensure that there is no digital class distinction based on geography or social add-ons or other things. So it might be nice to get a response. Then I want to pay tribute to the Council of State, which is reasonably clear and says that this infrastructure is necessary infrastructure and will be in place in the future as well. It's important. And so it's right, as many people mention here, that the ICT industry itself has a responsibility because one has a lot of energy. An investigation that was carried out showed that only 4.5 pst. Norwegian IT managers place great emphasis on energy saving when purchasing IT equipment. It's a cross of thought. At the same time, I think it's right to say that the attention around this is increasing, and hopefully we're moving in the right direction. When the company Google needed space for its headquarters, they took over the locals who were used to make the film Jurassic Park. They were probably very satisfied with the symbolism, because they threw out the dinosaurs, and now it's just a skeleton of a single dinosaur that's left outside and kind of reminds us of the past's thinking. The symbolism is striking, because if we're going to achieve the climate goals, we need a rapid shift in our energy use. We're going to realize the low-carbon society, and we can't do that without the use of new technology. We need to re-evaluate everything from travel habits, transport planning, construction techniques and energy production. Several people have been using video conferencing, and I think there are a lot of spokesmen, maybe a lot of business as well and other actors who have taken the trip to Oslo from Nord-Troms and Finnmark for half an hour's meeting in the ministry. It is definitely not the best environmental policy, but one can also ask questions about the use of money and time when this is the case. On the other hand, it shows the potential if we're willing to make use of it. The problem is not that the technology does not exist, but that it is not used properly. Health services were another example of the treatment and follow-up of patients that can be done by telemedicine, and in this way a saving of expenses can save the environment, but also save the patients it is due, for travel and thus often suffering, at least stress, in a phase where a person might be particularly vulnerable. Then we have to remember that the market for such solutions is great, and for the companies that come to the path, there may be great intrusions. ABB announced yesterday an agreement to purchase the software house Ventyx for $1 billion. Ventyx creates, among other things: software package for planning and estimating electricity needs. This helps generate income from, among others. ‘smart grids’. That's how the dinosaurs are luckily on their way out, and our job as politicians is to speed them up. ‘Good innovation begins with a crisis’, said the Council of State. It reminds us that climate crisis is not only a huge challenge, but it is also a huge possibility especially for people. this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2012	It's great to see that there are so many who are concerned about this topic, and have come here to take part in the debate. I am, of course, pleased that both the representative Serigstad Valen and the committee leader, Mr. Sande, I agree that this is an important topic. I'm not going to spend the time commenting on Serigstad Valen's many different approaches to this, which might have been a little bit side by side with what we're discussing here. But what I am concerned about, and which I actually lack answers to in the two answers of the Council of State, is my challenge, that we must have a comprehensive strategy on this. I have not received an answer to that. We must have overall objectives, which can also keep the Government responsible for this enlargement, and we must have a systematic review of framework conditions and economic incentives and how they affect the use of environmentally friendly IT solutions. It's an enormous potential, and I think the government has to take the chance to set itself bold targets, and let itself measure them. The main problem here is that there is no assessment of this in the Climate Action Plan, so when we decide on the important measures to be put in place to reduce emissions, we do not know to what extent IT will contribute or not. To put it that way, we need all the help we can get if we are going to reach the commitments in the climate agreement, and therefore it would have been nice if IT use was included in this. I will challenge the Government to come back to Stortinget with such a strategy. Because if we are going to sit in this room and decide how we are going to reduce car use, it is important to know what effect it will have on increasing the use of home offices versus for example. to introduce different forms of road pricing. I believe that we must have that decision-making basis intact when we are going to take these important decisions for Norway. In order to find out what the future construction will look like in Norway, and what technical regulations we will adopt, it is important to know what our objectives are for IT, and what influence IT could have on that building strategy. The same applies to future network policy, which we will adopt in this room. Then it is essential that we know what strategy the Government has for IT use, and what role it will play. And not least – as the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen was in, and I'm glad that it comes from SV – this is also an important business opportunity for a forward-looking industry for Norway that can help create green, sustainable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2026	First, I would like to say thank you for a very good debate with a lot of good input. I believe that there is a great deal of consensus that ICT is an important tool for us to achieve the objectives we have as a nation in order to reduce climate emissions not only at home but also outside. Let me just get to comment on some of the things that have come up, and some of the questions that I've been given. Infrastructure is crucial for us to meet the challenges we face. Therefore, Norway is a third place in OECD statistics on which countries have done a great deal to put in place a good infrastructure. Only Denmark and the Netherlands are in front of us, so Norway is at the top of the world when it comes to using that type of infrastructure. Then, in addition to this four-year period, we have given a lot of money to cover up for broadband where the market has not been able to fill up – we have spent 850 million. kr on it – we've come a long way. So it's probably like it's a demanding operation to decide how wide that broadband is going to be in the future, because there's an incredible amount of happening here, both in terms of technical devices and demand. But we have to keep working on it, and the government is prepared, as it has been said here, to be able to help fill in where the market itself is unable to sort out. When we leave the digital dividend open to commercial players, it is an important tool for us to reach even more with a wide enough broadband in the future. So I think it's good to focus on it with video conferencing. If there's anything the ash crisis has at least shown us, it's an important tool, and I think a lot of people have become aware of it as a very useful tool now in the situation we've been through. I think it's important to motivate leaders to use more video conferencing. I was at Statoil's. There, travel has been reduced by 25 pst. the systematic use of videoconferencing. I was to attend, for my part, the European Council of Ministers on ICT, which we held as a video conference. It was not quite as it used to be, but we managed to adopt a whole new ICT strategy for Europe by using videoconferencing. Well, that's what it's all about. So I think we need to continue the job of using electronic interaction between our users. Two million users of eID in March say something about the incredible potential there, and I'm most concerned that we're finding practical, good solutions. The fact that we contribute to demand, which can also produce good technical solutions, will be my priority in the work I am going to do. But again: thank you for a good debate and good input.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2043	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2049	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2056	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Storting meeting on 4 May 2010 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2065	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a review of the Law on Raw Fish for the purpose of simplifying and red tape, including the system of fixing minimum prices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2096	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 4 and 5, from Frank Bakke Jensen on behalf of the Right First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2132	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider extending the co-fishing system to multi-boat and open-group shipping companies in order to contribute to a more efficient and profitable fishing for the smaller part of the fishing fleet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2147	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2183	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-06.ana.ud710e2230	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
