ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e51	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave from 25 October to 27 October to take part in the mission of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Afghanistan from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative of Mr Per Arne Olsen from 25 October onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on leave for the representative of Mr Jørund Rytman from 26 October to 29 October to take part in meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees of Serbia and Albania; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Ida Marie Holen For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For Vestfold County: Morten Stordalen
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e94	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e97	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions not to allow political or religious activity in Norway to be financed by capital based on totalitarian, Islamic regimes that do not follow the UN Declaration of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e102	The representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e105	On behalf of the representatives of Frank Bakke-Jensen, Svein Flätten, Bjørn Lødemel, Svein Harberg, Lars Myraune, Gunnar Gunnersen, Siri A. Meling and myself, I would like to make a proposal to improve the operational capacity of farmers and to strengthen private property rights, including by removing special regulations on agricultural property.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e110	The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e113	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Ivar Kristiansen, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for an infringement fee and legal certainty for the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e118	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e135	If you go to the SSB's websites and click on population growth, you'll find color illustrations showing a population increase in the country as a whole, and where the growth will come from. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa, who has a past in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, knows the answer better than many: in and around the big cities. The largest red arrows point to the Oslo area. Akershus with its 530,000 inhabitants and Oslo with its 580,000 inhabitants will experience further growth in the coming years, although centralisation is decreasing. It is beyond doubt that these two counties constitute the same labour force region. In addition, many commute into the capital from Buskerud, Oppland, Hedmark, Østfold and Vestfold. The commuting makes this possible. Only in Akershus there are 123 000 people who commute daily to and from work. There are very many families affected by commuting. The area in and around the capital could experience a growth of 30 pst. in car traffic over the next 20 years as a result of this population increase. The projections have not been taken out of the loose air. The reason is that Akershus is the country with the highest car population, 330,000 cars, and is at the top of the car fleet per 1000 inhabitants. In addition, the driving distance by car is the longest in Akershus of all counties. In addition, it is worth noting that fresh half-years from Router for 2010 show that driving is increasing in Akershus. There may be many reasons for this, most likely because of the problems of train traffic in the last winter, but also new bus routes on Rome can record. The whole of the collective offer clearly affects car traffic. Either way, this is the opposite of the desired development. The goal of most politicians in this region now, in the county council, the City Council of Oslo, in government and big business, is that more and no fewer travel collectively, and that the most possible of traffic growth occurs collectively. Akershus is the train station in front of something. In particular, from the municipalities a distance away from the city border to Oslo, trains are the main collective means of transport. This government has invested and continues to invest in infrastructure on the railway. I want to remind you that rail investments are now three times higher than when we took over after the previous government. Train passengers will notice significant improvements. Next year the whole stretch is finished with double tracks between Lysaker and Asker. The double track on Follobanen has been adopted, and the Gardermobanen north of Oslo is also in very good condition. In Akershus there are few cities. We have four places with urban status as far as I can find out from Wikipedia: Drøbak, Ski, Sandvika and Lillestrøm. Akershus is an agricultural group where people live well with good space, but they live scattered. Even I live in Asker, a village of about 55,000 inhabitants that we insist on is a village, where there is a smell of manure at the station when it is ours and we are waiting on our way to work in Oslo. Many have moved out to more rural environments, where there is better space and more housing for the money, but there are greater challenges for the environment and transport than if we clumsied together in larger cities and lived in high-rises all of them. Transport research shows that people like to choose public transport if it provides smooth, comfortable transport that is perceived as efficient and on a regular basis. But the transitions must be seamless. They must not be perceived as complicated or too time consuming. The large train investments in the Oslo region require us to focus more than so far on getting people as effectively as possible to the traffic hubs, especially the large train stations. To put it another way: if we are to get the maximum out of these heavy investments, it has to be easily accessible to the train. Today, commuter parking places are likely to be what prevents more people from taking the train. We aim to increase the number of train passengers. Then the parking spaces must be in place to give the commuter the necessary precondition for passenger numbers to be increased. Today, this offer is deficient. Before today's debate, I asked the municipal parties in my party, Akershus, to tell me what the everyday life is for their commuting members and sympathizers. I got a very complete response from almost all the municipal parties. Let me take a short review, which does not include all municipalities even: In Asker, there are 17 000 commuters moving out of the municipality at work every day. There are a total of 719 parking spaces in small and large stations. It is crowded in all these parking spaces. In the parking garages, which require their own monthly card and self-payment, there are free spaces. In addition, commuters from Lier, Drammen, Hurum and Røken in Buskerud use the parking spaces in Asker. There are complex reasons for this, including: that there have been a lot of problems in Drammen – I think the representative Lise Christoffersen will come back to it later in the debate – but also because commuters from Buskerud get a better train offer and cheaper monthly card since they are thus closer to Oslo. This is likely to be reinforced following the introduction of a new zone and price system at Router from September 2011. In Bærum there are also few parking spaces, especially in Sandvika, which is an important traffic nook point. Lights will need far more space in the future. The new station where it deserves to be used as much as possible. Stabeck, Bærums Werk and Hövik have poorly used parking spaces. It's empty. Not so many parkers. Vestby has too little capacity, but has plenty of space at the Son station. Skiing has a sufficient number of places, but the level work on new stations should take into account the population growth that is coming and facilitate parking places. Ås needs access parking four places in the municipality. The rhumb bar requires several places on the west side to allow bus passengers to park. Nittedal needs more space than the parking spaces they have in the centre of the municipality. It's always full. Lørenskog needs more parking spaces at Fjellhamar. Fet wears with line on Fetsund bridge. That's why commuter parking is important at Kongsvingerbanen stations before you cross Glomma. The turn station has e.g. too few places today. Ulles things have blown up capacity. For the sake of order, finally, Eidsvoll can report that they have no problems with this at all. So, of course, it varies. Earlier this month, Ruter published her driveway parking strategy. There is the analysis much more thorough, naturally than such a sweep in the Party Party Organisation. They see an increase of 10,000 places. Today it's 8 000. A total of 18 000 places are needed in the next 20 years. The most interesting thing about the report is that there is finally a thorough analysis on the basis of this problem in a comprehensive perspective. This has been lacking, possibly because the responsibility, task, benefits and benefits have been spread among a wide range of actors. The railway station is primarily responsible for commuter parking for trains. For buses and tracks in Oslo and Akershus, it's Router. It's Routes and NSB that serve multiple travelers and increased ticket revenue. The company Rome Property is property owners in many places together with a number of other private and public owners. The municipalities are regulatory authorities. Often, each municipality wants a comprehensive parking policy locally, but they don't always sit in the position to get it done considering those who commute with Router or NSB. The counties have the overall responsibility for public transport. In Akershus’ case, in a company owned by two counties, which sometimes have equal interests, there are sometimes quite different interests. The result will be a little holistic policy, without an overall plan. On behalf of many commuters, there is an extended report of Router now in stock. But the challenge will also be this time to coordinate all these actors. The organisation, operation and funding arrangements are not included in the report, except that the Oslopacket 3 is intended to provide money for access parking. All of us who follow Oslopack 3, and what happens around it, know that the cost estimates of the large, heavy investments have increased significantly. The consequences of this are no one who has so far been able to make concrete progress, but there is a significant risk that this will result in less money than planned for commuter parking. One of the more interesting suggestions in the report is to make the State Road Administration responsible for all commuter parking. The railway works should concentrate on the development of the operation of the railway, argue for it, and not for that type of task. In addition, this is discussed with the user payment. When this is said, I would like to stress that going or cycling to the station should be encouraged, even for health reasons. Parking spaces generate driving, and many local roads in Akershus are also congested because many people use the car on short trips. But also the bicycle parking at my local station in Asker is full this summer. But it's a simpler problem to solve. I take this matter up in Stortingen to make the political commitment that I experience in this matter visible. It is important that the Minister of Transport and the Stortinget give signals that this work should be given priority. We are currently investing heavily in the railways. I am convinced that the time has come to take a more comprehensive approach to parking. The report from Router provides a good basis for moving forward. I look forward to hearing the response of the Council of State to these important challenges in and around Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e209	I'm glad that the representative Aasen addresses a question that has a lot to say to many of those who have long work trips and who want a better everyday life. For the Government, it's an independent point to assert freedom of choice when it comes to where the individual wants to bow. That means that we should be constantly occupied with a regional development that gives jobs and construction many places in this country. At the same time, there is no doubt that the current forecasts of growth in the population of the Orient must be taken seriously. The traffic cam must be collective, as far as possible. Land and the environment attests to it. The construction of double tracks in the West Corridor will be completed and the new line will be used in 2011. I really look forward to it. The following year, the Oslo project, with major renewal of the technical facilities in the Oslo tunnel and at Oslo S, is completed. This provides both increased capacity and reliability as well as faster train driving. Furthermore, planned expansion measures in the Oslo tunnel and the extension of platforms will gradually allow multiple and longer trains to be run. NSB totaled 50 new trainsets in traffic in 2012 and 2013. In the longer term, the Folloban between Oslo and Ski will provide a much better supply from the south. In order to make full use of the large investments for increased capacity on the rail network, it is necessary to improve rail accessibility. The journey will normally be one of several stages in a transport chain between home and work. If this chain is to be efficient, stations must be able to accept commuters on foot and on bicycles, by bus, by car or running on their own. In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the government has focused on the development of good collective nodes. Both stations themselves and surrounding areas must ensure that the suspension and transition between modes of transport is safe and secure. Car commuters are an important group, and it must be easy to put the car back again. It's also important, as the interpellant pointed out here, to get more people to go and ride. It itself involves better health, better environment and better appearance. Not all stations are owned by those who come in their own car and want to park all day long. In central areas, there will often be little space available and the cost of each place may be high, while there is no shortage of more traffic. It is therefore necessary to clarify where the need for more places is greater and where it is possible to solve it. In order to be able to prioritise the most useful actions, an overarching plan is needed. The railway works instructions state that the railway works shall contribute to the development of a satisfactory parking offer at the stations and to the fixing of parking charges for regular train users, based on the socio-economic principle. The Ministry of Transport elaborated these tasks in letters to the Railway Agency on 10 November 2008. Here it is called that the Railway Station is responsible for a satisfactory parking offer at the stations, based on a superior level. The railway works are working on an overarching national parking strategy that will provide guidance on how to resolve an entrance parking as part of the railway network’s development plans. These plans will provide a basis for recommendations on where and how to develop an entry-level parking on each route. By such an approach, the Railway Agency ensures that access parking is considered as a whole for each route. Stations in the same area can be seen in context, and parking places can be added to the most suitable stations on the route, assessed according to a build-up order. At the same time, other participants, such as Statens vägvesen, Ruter AS, NSB’s subsidiary Rom Eiendom AS, municipalities, county councils and private individuals, will be able to participate with both planning resources, funding and implementation. Plans must be anchored by these actors and coordinated with plans developed by the actors themselves. Routes, on which the interpellant was involved, have recently put forward a comprehensive approach to road-parking. It's very important to look closer to it. In addition to the expansion parking strategy, there is also the principle of payment agreed by the Railway Agency. Initially, the parking is free of charge in flat parking spaces, if there is enough capacity. If necessary, use cards that provide availability, relate to a train ticket, to balance the demand. If this is not enough, apply a fee based on a socio-economic analysis, until one has built up the parking space. If it is not possible to expand with a flat parking space, a car park can also be built. Although the Railway Agency does not currently have a comprehensive parking plan for the Austland, a number of access parking spaces have been improved and expanded in cooperation between local authorities, the Road Administration and the Railway Agency. This applies, for example: Grorud, Lørenskog, Frogner, Eidsvoll Works, Lillestrøm and Røken. In most cases, the extension is fully or partially financed by county road vehicles and funds from Oslopackak 2 and Oslopackak 3. There are, however, concrete plans for further development for the next few years as liabilities, for example: Lying, Ski, Lier, Hvalstad and Råde, together with hundreds of new places. In the Drammen it's time to establish places in a parking lot like Rome Eiendom planned. I think that the Railway Agency, through the work of establishing a national parking strategy that is incorporated into routed plans, has taken a proper hold. The strategy will provide a better basis for good decisions. The railway works will be ready for their overarching strategy during the year. I naturally find that the national parking strategy is part of the basis for the development of the next national transport plan and that it is the basis of the plans for the further development of airport parking in Austria. So it's the way, as the interpellant also had it, that Router has presented the most superior strategy to now. They started their work in 2008 when Router was established, and they say in their introduction that the Railway Agency and the State Road Service have carried out useful calculations and mappings. The strategy drawn up in the document they have supplied is based on this material, and there has been constructive cooperation between the companies involved. This applies both to the Railway Agency and to the Municipality of Oslo at the Trafikketate, to Akershus County Municipality, the State Road Administration, to individual Akershus municipalities and to Router. They've given a more accurate situation description than we've seen now. For example, they tell. something about the reasons why people park. There may be poor collective coverage, there may be poor parking conditions at the workplace, a long distance between home and work, and there may be errands on the way to or from work. But 90 pst. of those who park an entrance, after the investigation of Router, are working trips. There is also something about the most important basics, i.e. the queue problems on the way to the workplace. It is more comfortable to travel collectively. There's good collective services where I park, say a lot, and the fourth is that it's expensive or difficult to park at work, and then they sort this extra. I think that Router has made a good contribution to the work that the Railway Agency is doing this year, and it is through cooperation with the various departments that one reaches a very important goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e243	I would like to thank the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa for the answer, which I think was a good answer, and which also shows that she is taking this issue seriously. Unlike what is done, it is required, planned and worked with all over Norway, with large, often heavy, investments in the field of transport, this costs very little. In my opinion, this is not so much about the allocation of money. It's a lot, much more about the ability to coordinate all of these actors, that someone takes responsibility for making analyses, that plans are made, that then concrete things are done in a certain order, as the Council of State just said. What I think is necessary is that we get an overall assessment, that all the actors talk together. It is obvious to me that it is Router, the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration that together have to take full responsibility. Then it's very important that the Council of State shows this commitment, because it's her signals that I think will create progress in this matter. I believe many local politicians in both Oslo and Akershus feel a distance from some of these organizations. Many of these, including the State Road Service, the Railway Agency and the NSB, often have more urgent tasks: we can push this all the time. It's not where it burns when there's heavy snowfall and NSB wears, or there's important expansions elsewhere that have to be done. Building a few parking spaces hist and here in the county becomes a down priority case, as my impression is. I just want to ask the Council again whether it is true that the railway works plan should be completed by Christmas, was that so to understand? During this year, or was it next year? I would like an explanation of that. With regard to the bureaucracy, I hope they also talk about these plans and analyses, so that you don't do a double job. Router's report is, to the extent that I've read all the details, quite good. It can be done quite a lot, but it remains to be seen what is not specifically mentioned in the report: organisation, division of responsibilities, financing and how to put these plans into practice in the future. That's why I'm very pleased that the State Council of Meltway Kleppa highlighted the Ruter report, which is a major step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e254	That's how this government has increased the funds to the railway by 67 pst. It is also the case that there are ambitious plans both for 2011 and for the years ahead. Then, for natural reasons, we have been forced to put a special search light on maintenance. I think they know the snow on the roads right now, in the West and South. I hope they won't know it as tough about winter as the winter we have behind us. But both the NSB and the Railway Agency have a completely different preparedness when it comes to the short term, and when it comes to the winter, for the year ahead. In the 2011 budget, there are both increased opportunities for maintenance – a significant increase in its rights. There are some new crossing tracks. There are some measures directly related to the preparation of the gradual introduction of a new timetable. It's at the same time started work as it is, we're going to say, more fluent over. Both the intercity strategy and the rapid and rapid delivery are covered by that approach. Resources for important investments have been set up. This applies, for example: Holm–Holmestrand–Nykkerke, fortressed in the national transport plan. It also applies to the timing of the other projects that are promised in the current period of time. Then it's a very important -- we almost have to call it a missing link. There is just the possibility of parking, the possibility of going over and using a better offer. The possibility of walking and cycling is there, but the possibility of parking the car is fortunately gradually better through the cooperation that already exists, but must be strengthened. When it comes to the work that the Railway Agency is now doing, I went a little far when I said this year. We're now at the end of October. I'm glad I got a chance to rectify it, because it is during 2011 that they will have completed their national, superior parking strategy, and then in cooperation with the actors that it is indebted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e265	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important question. She points out the natural, really: to get people to take the train, it has to be available. She mentions a number of stations where this is not the case today. When the department responds to her call and creates a comprehensive plan for commuter parking in the East, I would like to ask that Drammen be included in that plan. Many drammers commute to Oslo every day – too many of them by car. Already during the preparations for the city announcement, the then mayor of Oslo, Erling Lae, said clearly from: We would like to welcome more than dreamers to Oslo, but we don't have room for one more of you in the car. commuter parking is not only about the environment and people's everyday lives, but also about all road-hazardous situations, including: along our school roads, when the train commuters, in part illegally, set off the car in the residential streets around the stations. I myself live in such a street that is also the schoolway for the very least. A better coordination of timetables between different carriers can solve something, but many depend on the car to the station to get the timecap to go up, and commuter parking is therefore absolutely necessary. A plan for this is great, but plans aren't enough, they also have to be implemented. The long-planned, but not yet realized car park at the Drammen station is unfortunately an example that there is a lack of both the ability and the will in the floors that are set to do the job on behalf of the politicians. I don't hesitate to call it a farce. It'll lead way too far to go into detail about this here, but in short, this is about a lot of cooks and a lot of garbage. Storing and government made decisions and granted money to get the flight to Drammen. The assumption was a P-house at Drammen station. Existing parking space is fully covered before noon. 7 o'clock in the morning. The plane train has arrived, but the P-house has not yet begun. There has been a caste ball between various states, where no one takes responsibility and only owes to each other, Rome Property, the Railways and the NSB. Sometimes I think they seem to have forgotten that they work in organizations that are subject to political governance. The municipality's drama is uncertain about the situation and has long since offered to solve the area and build P-house for its own account, in order to get ahead in the matter. The whole area around the station is now undergoing significant upgrade, which is to be completed for the city anniversary next year, but the P-house at the station is still in dead water. It is sad that, at some point, one is going to re-start works in an area that is soon to be upgraded. This is not a good use of society's resources and seems completely incomprehensible to most people – and for good reason. Two and a half years ago, I asked Liv Signe Navarsete, Minister of Transport at the time, to clean up. She took a reasonable amount of business and allowed Rome Eiendom to redeem the railway station's right of disposal to the current parking area in order to get ahead of the matter. But did it help the government itself intervene? No, the case is equally unresolved. This is an important matter for people in the Drama. The exposure is large. Last media lookup came a week ago. Now it seems that Rome and the Railway Agency have apparently agreed on an implementation model, but construction start has not yet been established. And the very last thing: when the P-house is finally finished some time or another, 100 parking spaces disappear! The drama is part of the collaboration on the Busker City. There is great satisfaction in our area with the current Council of State, which provides significant funds for climate-friendly land and transport development throughout the region, from Kongsberg to Lier. One of the objectives is to use as many as possible buses, feet or bicycles in combination with trains. But we also need commuter parking in relation to traffic nodes. In the Drama, it's all three stations in the city. If the Busker City is to be a success, more trains must be running. Plans and implementation efforts are needed in this context. The Council of State must ensure that this is done, if necessary through even stronger political governance. After the Council of State's reply here today, I feel confident that she will do just that, so that we can finally start building a long-awaited P-house in Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e282	It is very good that the representative Aasen addresses this matter, which is important for very many, perhaps especially for commuters. But it's a little special to record that one has to deal with such a matter internally in the government in an interpellation debate in the Stortinget, instead of being able to talk directly to the Council of State and see to it that I feel that both the Council of State and so far the representative Aasen and the representative Lise Christoffersen boast in all the fine celebrations. The problem for a lot of commuters is that you don't experience it the way both the Council of State and the other representatives do, that there's so much going on. I guess you're experiencing the exact opposite, that it's very small that's actually happening. The representative of Aasen is concerned with the challenges on the transport network, and especially for Akershus and the Oslo region. I fully agree that there are major challenges to solving the problems of how to get people to and from work and other doers and loads. But despite the appropriations that the government is always trying to boast – how much more money comes – the vast majority of the population will, despite these appropriations, choose to use the car instead of using the collective offer. That means you have to have more thoughts in your head at once. For the Progress Party, it's actually like we both have to have thoughts to do things on the collective side, and we also have to have thoughts to do things on the road side. When I hear representatives from the government parties say that you can't build on the challenges on the road, it's not entirely right when you see how small this region is, versus some other regions in the world that are able to solve the traffic challenges as well. But it is definitely important to look at this and the challenges you face in terms of park and ride, and to get to the public nodes quickly and efficiently, in order to get on with the collective offer. I very much agree with Lise Christoffersen in one thing. We have also taken up the situation many times around the Drammen station and the problems there. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she can be concrete and clear and say that now one should clear up the conflict between the Railway Agency, the NSB and Rome Eiendom. As far as I know, the Council of State is at least in the NSB, so that she can at least make sure that she cleans up the relationships between Rome and NSB. And then she's also the head of the Railway Agency, so she can sort out any conflict that's between the three parties, so that you can start the development at Drammen Station, because there it's urgent. If you want more people to use the collective nodes, you have to clean up the problems that are there. I think it is good that a national parking strategy is coming. I think that's very important, but I think it's a little too bad to just say in 2011. I'd like to see the Council of State be a little more concrete, and that they actually said in early 2011, or at least before the summer of 2011, so that a strategy was put in place, which is very important, if you really think you want to move motorists into collectives, and especially when you get into these areas, where there are some major challenges. I think that if you really think that you should have people to use collectively – people who come from other parts of the country, where there might be worse collective offers than what you have in the central east region, especially in Oslo and Akershus and perhaps parts of Eastfold – it's very important when you get to either the collective hub or the railway, that there are free places where people can park. Time is an incredibly important factor. If you're going to spend a lot of time looking for space and a long time waiting for the collective offer, then people choose collective and use the car instead. There I can probably talk a lot of my own experience, because I'm one of those who drive a lot of cars to get into the capital, where the collective offer and parking spaces are often lacking, which makes you choose it away. Governments boast of an increase of 67 pst. to the railway, and I think it's very good that there's more money coming to the railway. There's a huge need out there. I think it is important and good that there is more money for maintenance. Because this debate is very much about how to get more parking spaces at the collective hubs at the railway stations, I would like to challenge the Council of State on how much concrete it is put into the 2011 budget to do something about the precarious situation of parking spaces, which the representative of Aasen also addressed – with many examples of major challenges. I hope that the Council of State in its reply can later be very clear and clear on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e301	First, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important question and raising the debate in this Chamber. The inter-pellant, me and the others who have been on the pulpit agree that we need to facilitate the increased use of public transport, especially in the densely populated areas here in the East. If we can't make it easy to get more people to travel collectively, we will experience a blasted road network all over the Oslofjord region in very few years. It is therefore also gratifying that the Council of State, at least verbally, expresses that this should be a field of activity and that it should work on the issue. In the long-term planning and development of society's transport and communication services, it is important to base personal freedom and quality of life and environmental societal development. This means that it is necessary to facilitate fast, efficient and safe transport for travellers. When the bus station is located far from the ferry bay or it is difficult to park at the train station, transport by multiple means of transport becomes less attractive and often expensive. For the right, there's a point that the railway goes where people live, that is. through our cities. The proximity of railway stations is important, and the stations must be located in such a way that most people feel that they are centrally located, that they are equipped for the parking of bicycles, that there is great availability through corresponding collective services and, of course, with regard to parking, which we are discussing today. The evening post yesterday brought the news, which many people have heard, that Ruter now finally meets the cows in Oslo and Akershus. In the said report, they state that the entry parking spaces must more than double by 2030. The survey shows that eight out of ten Oslo people have less than 10 minutes walking distance to a collective service that goes every quarter or more often. In Akershus, this applies only to three out of ten, and in large parts of the East, the situation is much worse. In the coming years, large parts of the railway in the East will be upgraded or upgraded if we meet the objectives of the National Transport Plan. The pace and momentum here belong in another discussion, and I leave it here in the debate today. However, in the context of the work to be done in many municipalities, it is important that the local authorities’ regulatory plans also focus on the disposal of land in relation to the problem of parking. In its alternative transport plan, the right has introduced a new reward scheme for municipalities as an active facilitator, making it easier to switch between different modes of transport. Intermodality is a known and important concept in the case of goods, but it is also important for passengers. The right, therefore, wants to give concrete priority to ways of stimulating a precisely shift from car use to collective transport. This is in addition to the Right's objective of continuing to invest in today's public transport reward scheme. These new means of reward have been used precisely for what we are talking about today, for projects that facilitate a simpler and more universal transition between different modes of transport. The reward scheme shall precisely stimulate municipalities to pursue a land and transport policy that helps to simplify the transitions from one mode of transport to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e322	I would also like to thank the interpellant for providing such an important interpellant on something that affects many people's everyday lives. The overall goal here is to allow people to make the journeys they want without destroying our communication veins, which are quite explosive as it is today, and not nature and the environment around us. We in the Left are sorry to have been informed that the Route Plan 2012 is delayed. It prevents people from making all the wise choices. 'Park and ride' is an important part of making our communication system work. The left's view is that Router should have had a much greater responsibility for the local train traffic, so that we could get a more comprehensive solution, and that all local traffic could be viewed as a whole. Routes actually have an access-parking strategy that would have been the basis for such a comprehensive plan. The big grip that was done in Oslo and Akershus, which is the big challenge for the whole communication system, which now makes us see that we have a more and more functioning system, is that we got a complete planning and did not continue with the argument about the tram, the T-Bahn and the buses, about who would go where and when, and who had the status to do the one and the other, but that we actually got Router, who had a plan for the whole. We in the Left think that we had got a much better plan for the whole area if local train traffic had also been part of that plan, because train traffic in Norway is probably generally characterized by many big and small boys and girls with a lot of responsibilities and who are more concerned about retaining their responsibilities than finding good solutions for people. What's the advantage of the driveway parking? Yeah, people don't stand in line. That's one of the first and best arguments people can use. Trains, trams and tracks are perceived as more comfortable, but if we can't get away with the queues on trams, tracks and trains, we can't compete with a comfortable offer. So it's a very good idea to have a good route offer to make it work. The last is that many people see it as both expensive and difficult to park in their own workplace. This way, a park and ride system can actually make everyday life better for people. I think this will grow in the future, and it must be done if we are both to take care of nature around us and to be able to compete with the climate challenges and in addition let people have the opportunity to travel as often as they want in the future. I very much agree with the whole problem that the interpellant travels, but this must be done wisely, with a holistic plan and a holistic thinking. If we can't here, we can get wrong, and then we'll lose the socio-economic profitability that's in this kind of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e337	Like all previous speakers, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue. In contrast to the representative Hoksrud, I am actually pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss such a matter in Stortinget. I thought that maybe also that the Progress Party was concerned. This is an area of transport work that has been largely forgotten. Road, track and collective take a lot of the place, commuter parking is forgotten. I am pleased with the Minister's reply today, which shows that there are things going on in terms of a national parking strategy. I take it as a prerequisite that the train complex Akershus and surrounding municipalities are given extra attention in the national plan. Akershus is the country that has the most commuting – much into Oslo, something from Oslo to Akershus, and a lot between the municipalities in Akershus. Population growth has been mentioned. A population growth in Akershus has been estimated at around 200,000 over the next 20–30 years. This poses major challenges for transport, the environment and climate. To meet the challenge, it is said that growth has to be taken on public transport. We have a great job to do. Now it's commuter parking that's the theme – and commuter parking in a way in today's situation. But if you think about it in the future, the picture is even more complicated. We're building up and maintaining the railway at a pace that's been a long time since we've seen. But we also have to facilitate people getting to the train. Parking spaces are one thing, but there are also other elements in this. The development of public nodes is a premise in the national transport plan, and it is a proper strategy. One example I know well is the new Ski Station, which is now under construction in connection with the new double track. A new collective terminal must be built at the train station. It makes it possible to facilitate the transition between bus and train. Collective nodes with good transitions between bus and track can reduce the pressure on parking spaces. But it has, as several speakers have pointed out, as a condition that the transitions are good and coordinated. I do not think I fully agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that Router is going to take over the local train traffic. But there's one thing that's safe, and that's that Router and NSB have to cooperate to a much greater extent than what they're doing today to make good and efficient transitions between bus and lane. We need more overall collective planning, we're going to make this work together. I think we have to accept transitions in the future. I have trouble understanding that people choose to use an hour or a half in a car on their way to work because they do not want to change the means of transport along the way. I think you have to admit that if you want to solve this, you also have to look at the transitions between means of transport. But then this is also about how spatial planning is in municipalities, how growth and housing take place. Lack of available land is also a problem in the Central East. Population growth must be taken in the fastening around the collective nodes. It will also reduce the pressure on additional commuter parking places. Every time I've heard the director of Router perform the past few years, he always has a slide. Now I hope that the Council of State will not interpret me in the worst sense when I am going to refer him, but he tends to ask questions about whether we are going to grow grain on the platform at Ås station. Ås is an important hub and a growth municipality with many commuters, where the field goes completely into the station area. He asks questions about whether it is the right land use, or whether other things should be arranged there. And I understand that question he's raising. How we meet population growth while taking into account the land frontier, soil protection and outdoors and providing an efficient transport system will be the most important political debate in this region, in the Central East, in the years to come. The need for commuter parking in the East is great today and will grow in the coming years. I look forward to the overall parking strategy for the Railway Agency now coming along. But my point is that it shouldn't be the only focus. Better collective nodes, better transitions between transport systems and how we set up land and transport planning are also important. Almost 70 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in Akershus come from the transport sector. Getting people to drive only partial sections over entire distances through commuter parking places reduces emissions somewhat. But we also have to build a collective system that reduces the need for driving at all if we are to do something about the emissions we have from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e360	I am very pleased with the commitment that several have shown – from many parties and representatives from different parts of the Eastern region. It is important to make it visible that there is a broad political consensus in this area, and it is important that the representatives here in the Chamber also express the local concerns that are the different places – whether Moss, Drammen, Telemark or Oslo, for that matter, which of course remain with all these cars. The representative of Trine Skei Grande pointed to a significant point, I think. It was that there should be an overall plan that is put into a holistic context. That is a good point, also because it is so today that although we can prove that there are many commuter parking spaces that are heavy at seven o'clock in the morning, there are also some commuter parking places that are almost empty, where there are no parking people – maybe just three, four, five cars – and on which we have spent money, which shows that it is not an overall approach to what is built on analysis of where the need is greatest. We have to have that, and that's why this Ruter report is pretty good. Now that we know that there is a political will to do something about it, we know there is a documented need for it, and we know there are good reasons to spend both money and resources on it, why doesn't that happen anymore? I think the answer lies in the organization. For the railway works, the best on and the most expert on the railway infrastructure. They shall be as good as possible in the maintenance and construction and operation of the entire network. Then it might be an unnatural or a little bit strange organization and an additional function, as they see it, that they are suddenly going to be responsible for some asphalt surfaces where there are to be some cars, which are not going to be the whole core task, to say it that way. Then, of course, the Council of State has pointed out something that is important, that all these actors need to cooperate. We have no choice but that everyone, state, municipality and state, must cooperate – and all the agencies and organisations responsible for public transport and transport for the rest. Of course it has to work together. But I wonder if we should take a round on the organisation: Is it natural that the railway station has the main responsibility for commuter parking? Or should we think that the State Road Service should perhaps be more involved, which, after all, is responsible for what is involved in asphalt, and what is involved in cars, and which are more in their core area? It would have been interesting to get a comment from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e372	I want to end up as I started, first stressing how good it is with the broad commitment that the interpellant here took on the recording, and as this debate has shown – an commitment not only to bet more on trains and on collective provision, but also to bet on the organization and availability, so that it is possible to benefit from the different offers. I could supplement my first post both with the cities of the future and what is happening there, and with the reward scheme for collective provision and what is happening there. That's not what I'm going to do right now, but let both of them be called, because already in the beginning of Tuesday, there's going to be a meeting in the Drama that applies to future cities. I would be very surprised if not exactly the possibility to park in the Drammen entrance comes up there too. What I can specifically answer now is that I know that they have at least come important steps forward now during this house in the absolutely necessary coordination that is there, before they get the car park in place. So I'm very disagreed with the representative Hoksrud, who says that little happens here. In fact, a lot is happening here in different terms, both on the road and on the road – not to say that it could not happen even more. I can't figure out how many new parking spaces will be coming in 2011, but I'm sure there will be more. I think the Railway Agency should also get 2011 to develop its superior parking strategy, but I know that they know that we are impatient in that field too. So it was our meeting in my department where I see that we can move on to sitting around a table – it was about Drammen, it was also about planning Oslo-Ski. It was a pleasure to sit down with Oslo, Ski and Oppegård municipalities and sew together a scheme that made us all a few, from state, county and municipality. There's just this organisation that I'm going to put the search light on. The interpellant specifically asked whether the State Road Administration should also assume responsibility. I don't want to impose any new tasks or take some tasks from the Railway Agency right now, but I'll make sure that the cooperation gets closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e383	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e399	I want to start with the end of a poem that was printed in the newspaper many years ago. The last verse is this: "Norway and the United Nations thank you," they said, "and left us, we had become them, the civil ones, the others. But they didn't take away our red dreams, our loneliness or the length, less. They didn't take away that we were ahead in our own country.» It's written by a veteran. The biggest victim we as a national parliament can ask anyone to do is be willing to sacrifice their lives for a mission we've sent them to. I think that deserves the greatest respect and the greatest support. In Norway today, we have had a lot of discussion about those who participated in World War II and the peace operations after World War II, and their memories. I have grown up in a home with a father who had his life divided into two: before and after he was in the German Brigade. After that, we have had many Northmen who have taken part in war on our behalf: in Lebanon, in Gaza, in Congo, in Somalia, in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, in the Kuwait-Iraq war, in Kashmir, in Angola. Many of them are small groups that are not always remembered for their efforts. This is an area where we have had a lot of beautiful words, but often the debate has only been in defense, and it's not just the defense's job to do something about this. The entire healthcare system must be prepared. That is why today I have chosen to ask the question to the Minister of Health, and not to the Minister of Defence. There is minimal knowledge around the Norwegian health system about the things they have been exposed to: post-traumatic stress, anxiety, depression, and the many troubles that arise. As a mother writes to me about his son: He is lucky to have been replaced, but I wish he had been treated as well. The replacement debate is not to be taken up today. But I think it's important to take up the health issue and how we as Norwegian communities are able to accept our veterans when they get home. As a psychiatrist in the defense said to me when I prepared this: we're too bad to prepare our soldiers for what meets them, and we're not good at debrifing along the way. We're not good at preparing the family for who they get home, and we're not good at following up. Now the defense has decided that they will follow up for one year. The problem is that most of the people I've talked to feel that the problems are coming later. In addition, there are very many people around a veteran when he comes home, who also feel that the pressure is great. There may be children who suddenly get a father home with completely different experiences, marriages that are pushed by both the absence before and how to deal with the everyday afterlife, and mothers and fathers, who are perhaps the ones who have most contacted me after I have raised this theme. As a mother said, the children really want to get help, but we haven't heard about any place where the children of a veteran can get help. We have a lot of old veterans, too. When summarizing the return of some soldiers from Afghanistan for a short time, the chief psychiatrist in the Defense Department, Jon Reichelt, said the following in the Newspaper: ‘Sleep problems, restlessness and high voltage nerves are some of what soldiers can expect. They shall be surprised if they do not experience post-reactions’. 10 pst. by the soldiers will deal with serious problems, including marine murder thoughts, after the war. We know that nine Danish soldiers have tried to kill themselves. In the United States, 32 soldiers killed themselves only in June. In fact, more than those who died in the war acts in Iraq and Afghanistan from the United States during the same period. But the Norwegian defense has no idea how many Norwegian soldiers it actually poses a problem for. So all of this we have to take seriously. It's about respect. It's about respect for the job they've actually done, and I think it's important to say that sails if we can have disagreement in Norway about the political choices that make people actually leave and do this job, it's not their job that's to be discussed then – it's the politicians' job that's to be discussed. It's our decision to send them out, not that they're actually willing to do the job. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we have had our own problem of whether we are at war or not. It is clear that our soldiers are in a war, sail if Norway is not at war with Afghanistan. It's actually also a sentence I think it was important to say from Stortinget's pulpit. That's an example of what the book called "Scarred Soldier" came out before the summer. We sent a field hospital to Iraq during the Kuwait war. That field hospital really ended up in the center of the event and experienced some terrible days associated with Saddam Hussein's property on mines. When Gunnar Roger Johansen called from Iraq to the headquarters of Huseby and reported on what the condition was like, he got the answer: «Hey? Iraq? We don't have people down there." The efforts made for a country should be respected. We're also going to talk about the job to do. Or as a veteran wrote to me today, well, it's gotten better after many years of voluntary efforts by the veterans. A veteran who comes home has changed as a human being, for good and for bad. The problems come both in health, family, economics, work, and even in law and order. But his conclusion was: it's not just the defense that has a responsibility to take care of the veterans, it's all political Norway. That is why my challenge to the Minister of Health is: How do we accept today’s veterans in the Norwegian health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e429	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant Skei Grande for raising this debate. Personnel involved in foreign operations do so, as was also said, on behalf of the Norwegian State. That is why the care of veterans is also a national matter and something the government and I have been concerned about since we joined in 2005. Yes, it was actually one of the very first things I took up as Minister of Defence. Some of the things that made the most impression on me through my years as Minister of Defense, were all the personal meetings I had with veterans – with those who were soldiers during World War II, and who are perhaps the ones we usually think of as our veterans – but just as full of women and men who have been out later, among others. in the Middle East, in the Balkans, in Africa, in Iraq, in Afghanistan and in several places. They too have many strong stories, good and bad. Meetings with soldiers and veterans and their families have given me many important input into the work to strengthen the follow-up of the veterans. The government has implemented a number of measures. A total increase also joined in 2009 the ‘From Protective to Veterinary’ ‘Responsibility of personnel before, during and after participation in foreign operations. Participation in foreign operations is a central part of defence activities and an important element of Norwegian security and defence policy. Foreign service has become a natural part of the service of defence employees. Fortunately, most of those who have served abroad come back with new knowledge and experience and without any damage. But for some it may take time to process the impressions and get used to everyday life again. Some families experience heavy loads both during their stay and sometimes after returning home. Some experience challenges related to getting a job and education after finishing work. Insomnia and restlessness are common expressions of stress reactions. In most people, reactions go away after some time, but there are some who develop post-traumatic stress syndrome, PTSD. We don't know how many people are affected yet. The government has therefore launched research in this area. The experience is that many people apply for professional help only several years after they have completed their duties, and after they are out of Defense. An important measure is to get veterans to recognise symptoms, so that they actually seek help. In order to provide adequate assistance and support, efforts from several sectors need to be made. It can be in the health sector. It could be through Nav. It can be in the education sector and in the workplace, as well as of course in the Defence. Coordinated responsibility is crucial. I also want to stress what was raised, that it is also very important to care for children, family and relatives in this context. Civil health is responsible for providing services to the veterans and their families in the same way as the population else. The veterans have the same rights as all Norwegian citizens throughout their lives. A special right for personnel who have served in foreign operations is that they are entitled to follow up from the Defence for one year after the end of service. These changes to the Defence Personnel Act entered into force in the current year, in 2010. The health service and the defence have overlapping responsibility for the follow-up. The health service has the overall responsibility throughout the course, while the defence has a special responsibility in the first year. All veterans can contact the Defense at any time for advice and guidance if they experience health disorders that can be related to the Service, even after the first year at home. I am concerned that the civil health service should have the necessary competence, both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service, to meet the veterans in a good way. The government has strengthened its efforts in mental health in general and significantly through the Roadmap for Mental Health. It has contributed to better competence and capacity, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. In the last part of the planning period, we focused particular attention on violence and traumatic stress. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress is central in this context. The Centre also contributes with research, education and guidance to the traumas experienced by participants in foreign operations. In 2007, regional health businesses were given the task of strengthening treatment provision for severely traumatised patients and torturing victims. By the end of 2007, clinical settings of competence were established in all health regions in the form of the five regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. These centres provide services at both State and municipal level. In addition, several sites in the country have also established their own treatment units with specialised clinical competence in psychiatric trauma and trauma treatment. The centre of the region east operates a comprehensive educational programme entitled ‘Safer Traumeter Apertures’. To date, the programme has been implemented by four health businesses. RVTS East has also developed its own immersion module to strengthen the supply of UN and NATO veterans. The health of the defence will be responsible for parts of this programme. In the Eastern region, this will now provide a network of specifically competent doctors and psychologists. The five centres have received additional appropriations in 2010 to enable the training package to be used in all regions. In the 2011 mission papers, I would like to oblige regional health companies to ensure that this training is carried out in such a way as to establish a community of competences in each health region. These centres – the RVTS, which are shortened – also provide first aid in case of suicide risk for volunteers and employees at the Swedish Defence Organisations. This year, the Health Directorate is giving all five RVTSs the task of cooperating with regional stress response teams. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will also, in cooperation with the Directorate and in cooperation with the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, assess the need for further research efforts in this area. On the basis of this, I will also assess the future resource needs of the Centre. Primary health services are the cornerstone of healthcare for all citizens in Norway. The decision-makers are important for catching people with mental illness after foreign service in the Defence. This week, the government sent out proposals for a new law on municipal health and care services at the hearing. The draft law is a very central part of the implementation of the cooperation reform. Here the government proposes that decision-makers have a more active role to play in prevention and early intervention. This will also have an impact on veterans who address their decision-makers. In many cases, the decision-makers themselves will be able to provide the necessary assistance to the veterans and their relatives. In other cases, they will refer to the specialist health service. We also have positions in the health care system that are used by the health professionals in the defence sector who specialize in civil hospitals. This is part of the work to ensure good medical coverage for Norwegian strength contributions in foreign service. In spring 2011, the government is presenting an action plan that follows up the roll-out message on staff maintenance before, during and after participation in foreign operations. The plan is a cooperation between the departments, offices involved and Veteran and employee organisations. Here we are to bring together all the measures in place and new measures to strengthen the rights, follow-up and recognition of veterans. How we are able to take care of those who have participated out there is also an expression of how society acknowledges the efforts of the soldiers. As former Minister of Defence and now Minister of Health, I am sincerely concerned with the care and recognition of our veterans. Good follow-up in healthcare is an important part of this. Improvements have been made in recent years. Nevertheless, we still need more knowledge and better cooperation. As Minister of Health, I would like to make an active contribution to the further work, including the action plan that is under way, and the projects that have been launched and that are to be launched, around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e469	The reception of our veterans has improved since the first soldiers went out in peacekeeping operations. I have heard stories that in the old days you had half a day off to deliver equipment before you went back to work. Someone told me that when one of the groups came from Lebanon, the reception at old Fornebu was that the customs school had an exam. All the soldiers were examined for two hours down to the smallest detail as a test in customs school. It was the Norwegian state’s ‘welcome back and thanks for the effort’. At least now we've got a reception ceremony at Akershus, and at least the Left has taken care to be present at all. Still, there's a lot left before we do a good job. The main challenge is in relation to health. I have two follow-up questions for the Council of State. It is good that these plans come. It's good that research is coming. But had it also been tricked with some hand-on groups that could work against the veterans in a practical way? Maybe the defense and the health care community should work together to create some such groups that could visit the veterans we have, to get an overview of the state and to make sure that those who need help actually get it. Because it also needs to be admitted that this is a group, often men, who do not always seek help when they should, and who need some help to find out what they need. My second question concerns all the mothers, fathers and children who have contacted me and who say that they have no place to go. My question to the Council of State is, where are they going?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e482	In his first post, interpellant Skei Grande quoted a psychiatrist, and I'm not going to challenge the psychiatrists in the defense, but I want to take the defense a little in defense. The defense has actually done quite a lot to prepare and follow up soldiers, while they are out and also on mission. We can always admit that things can do better, that we can get more thorough and do an even better job. But at the same time, I would like to stress that there has actually been a major change in practice from the first veterans of recent times, from 1978 and Lebanon. In fact, a great deal of effort has been made to improve the work of the Defence Agency. With regard to the follow-up of children and families, the Defense itself has employed its own family coordinators. What can often make it difficult is that people live scattered, you live all over the country, far away from the camp or the base from which that soldier or family member is sent, and then it's not always as good to keep in touch. But the defense keeps family collections both before you leave and when they come back, and try to keep in touch with the families along the way – I know that. Then it is also made, among other things. a separate book for children. All these are important measures, but then of course I also see that where it really helps to follow up the families, it can be afterwards, because the soldiers themselves are being taken care of, or at least they are going to be, through the Defense of the first year, if they need special help. Families must also be cared for by the health service. With regard to the question that Skei Grande asked about having my own team and hands-on, I tried to describe in my post how we work quite specifically to get the skills and training materials out across the country to be able to establish networks of doctors, psychologists and psychiatrists that should have knowledge of the particular situation of the veterans. Also in the context of the cooperation reform and the role of the decision-makers, which we have strengthened in the documents that have now been consulted, we are very concerned that the decision-makers must address the patients they have on their list who never meet with the decision-makers. The defence will also have a better opportunity to follow-up through its health records, which now have much better evidence than before, because both events and injuries will be better documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e493	Thanks to the interpellant – I think there are very important questions that are raised here. We will probably come back to these matters on several occasions in many major periods in the future, too, I think. Personnel in international operations serve and have served on behalf of the Norwegian State. They do a very important job under very tough conditions, and it is then the more solar responsibility and duty of society to give them recognition and support, which they most deserve, even when they come home. If we look back, after World War II there are 120,000 women and men who have served, and they have gained valuable experience from these operations, while there are also some who are struggling physically as well as mentally afterwards. As a nation, we have a responsibility to give our veterans the rights and the support and not least the recognition they deserve and deserve. The big community has to admit that there has not been enough work to take care of the veterans in the past. Fortunately, much has been done in recent years, and it should also be done more, as the minister said before. In recent years, family and psychiatric policies have been strengthened, replacement and compensation systems have improved and, in particular, visibility and recognition through markers have been increased. Substantial grants are now being made for lowthreshold services, such as camaraderie support, collections and related work throughout the country. There is also a separate research programme now under way, and we look forward to the results that are coming, because it will provide us with guidance on how to move forward in these matters. So to the question the interpellant specifically addresses in its question, how to build up the competence and capacity of the civil health system in relation to veterinary care? After all, we had a debate on the 2009 vet report, and the government assumes that it has a clear and lifelong responsibility for caring for the staff deployed in foreign operations. Furthermore, the veterinary report states that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health agree that those in need of psychiatric, psychological or other medical follow-up should receive it in a coordinated health service. The health follow-up of veterans requires further strengthening and development of national health and health competences. I am pleased now that the Council of State also stated that further action has been taken and will be undertaken, not least at regional level, with guidance from health companies, safer trauma therapists, building networks and competences for people. Not least, I think accountability is also very important here, that we get accountability and coordination of responsibility, not least within family and children. Special follow-up is needed here. It is the public health service that must be responsible for damaged veterans, and we must see this for a lifetime. The defense has a specific responsibility in the first year, but after that it is the normal health service, to use that expression, which is to take over. However, it is important not least that the competence of veterans on the special challenges must also be built up within the public health service, and this is where, as the minister pointed out, a large apparatus is being set in motion, so that this is also being carried out and built up in addition. We can – and should – certainly become even better at making the support and recognition of the veterans visible, and not least on concrete action to address the shortcomings we have in caring for our veterans before, under and not least after the service. These are women and men who have done a very important job on behalf of Norway. The veterans deserve good and predictable conditions after the service. It is therefore important that other agencies and departments, other than the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, also take part in the responsibility. I am pleased that the Council of State says that she will put pressure on this within her remit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e516	This is undoubtedly a very important debate. And despite the fine words of the Council of State, unfortunately the community and the defense here have little to be proud of. I'm a veteran myself. I've been in Lebanon three times. The first time was in 1980. I was 19 years old when I came to Lebanon as a sergeant and teammaster. It was a demanding service, and there were many dangerous challenges. I want to tell you about an episode that I experienced on December 18, 1980, which took many years before I could talk about at all. At that time, what happened occasionally in a war zone: the patrol that I led was exposed to shooting from 30-40 metres in the dark. There were also throwing splint grenades at us. And when a lie in the field, it's a simple decision when someone tries to kill you, to shoot back to kill. I gave orders to shoot back, and I think I also used the phrase "shooting to kill". I'm aware that it's not a proper political formulation, but it's easier to put it politically correctly when you're behind a desk in the government quarter than when you're in the field of a war zone. After approx. Seventy-five minutes was the goal down, and we could go back into the camp. And I've never had as much adrenaline in my body before or later as I had that time. I also had a strange mixture of emotions, both anger and hatred and joy and happiness – anger and hate because someone had tried to kill me and my fellow sundials, and joy and happiness because they didn't do it. I have never had any significant problems with this episode, but we've been hooked up differently, and I know that there are several people who have had problems, both in Lebanon and after returning to Norway. But the support and follow-up from the Defence and Society has been equal to zero. After a service is finished, each individual is left to himself, with no follow-up at all. And for many, this has led to too much stress. The civil health service has also not been of great help; they have simply not understood what the problems were. In the team for which I was a team leader almost 30 years ago, today is 20 pst. dead. In the troops that I belonged to today is 15 p.m. dead. So at the service time, this was mostly healthy and healthy soldiers at the beginning of the 20s. The statistical probability that they won't experience 50 years is very low. So the mortality rate that I'm referring to here is so many times larger than the average in society. I do not fully understand the cause of these deaths, but I note that this is much higher than the average in the population. I also think that if one had provided statistics for other teams, clusters and quotas, it would be equivalent and maybe even higher numbers. The point is that when a send young soldiers to the war zone, and those who are exposed to strong experiences, this will be a cost even after the service is finished. That cost must be taken seriously by defence and society. One must offer professional help in a completely different way from what is being done today. I'm afraid that if you don't do anything radical, maybe in 30 years' time, you'll experience the same death rate for those who come home from Afghanistan today, as for that troop I belonged to 30 years ago. It is therefore important to investigate the living conditions, and it is important to identify how it has been done with those who have shared in this type of international mission. We also have to explain why it has been as it has been, and, most importantly, what society could and should have done for them. One must also have a fair compensation system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e537	Also, I want to open with thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very important and topical topic. It's very topical, but at the same time it's unfortunately not true that this is a new issue. It has been said that since World War II, we have had 120,000 Northmen out in various foreign operations. The vast majority of these have come back richer on experiences and richer on impressions. For me, a year in Lebanon in the early 1990s became both important and upbuilding. It shaped me and my life in a positive way. I know that also applies to many of the others I served with. I would add that for Norway, these are the people we've had in foreign operations, a resource we've unfortunately never learned to value. In recent years, with full support for a total increase, the government has implemented several positive actions. A big message has been provided on the protection of defence personnel before, during and after international operations, and changes have been made to the laws to strengthen the rights of veterans, including: the introduction of objective liability for personal injury in international operations. For mental damage suffered before the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2010, a separate compensation scheme has been put in place. The announcement of the overthrow of the veterans was dealt with last year, and there are unfortunately still promises relating to it that the government parties have not been able to fulfil. It probably reveals some of the problem of the lack of reality, and is to a great degree frustrating for those who are waiting for help. That the government thinks we have a greater responsibility for soldiers who are out after 2009, than before, can't be right. In the debate, there is one point that I think needs to be made very much: the understanding we have in Norway of what this service implies is minimal. This concerns society in general and the public service sector in particular. That's why, in my opinion, those who really need help have trouble finding it. The action plan has been notified, but has unfortunately been delayed. In my opinion, one of the most important things it has to take into account is the fact that in civil society we do not understand what this kind of service is. We don't really want to identify with these people that we've sent out and given a mission. This is regrettable, but in my view it is a fact. My impression is that the defense has gradually done a better job with this matter, but that the way to understanding in other public offices is long and very steep. In the next few years, a number of people with experience from many and long missions in the war in Afghanistan will come from the Defense. For some of these, the support apparatus must be available and of the best quality we can offer from the first day. We have enough examples of people who have not received the support they needed. I am of those who appreciate the experience of the Minister of Health from his previous post. I think it will be important, but it is also important, in my opinion, that we really screw up and take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e554	I would first like to thank Trine Skei Grande – as several others have done – for putting a very important question on the agenda. It is clear that these kinds of things are very special to debate in Stortinget, because it touches people in a very special way. There are people here in the gallery who have been through things, and there are also people in the hall here, among other things. Gjermund Hagesetter, who has experienced things that some of us may not be able to imagine. Such debates are always very special and require a great deal of humility. I would like to stress what has also been said about it being good for the Minister of Health to have the experience she has as a former Minister of Defence, and I think that gives an extra ballast of getting involved in some of the issues relating to a matter like this. I also think it was nice to hear the representative Skei Grande's descriptions of his own experiences related to this, and some of the history of what it was like before, and how it is now. Luckily, the thing that's very common is that society is getting better. It goes forward, we get more knowledge, taboos are put away more than before, and it's easier now to talk about relationships that it was hard to talk about before. But it's clear that we have to be humble the whole time that there's a lot that can be improved. I have particular experience working with violence and traumatic stress associated with families, who relate to children's growing-up conditions, among other things, and then worked up towards the health care system to get the health service to be more busy talking about violence, talking about traumas and what's happening, getting knowledge about what's happening, being interested, asking questions, drying it and drying up to meet challenges that are difficult. I know that the health care system has a long way to go, but it has happened a lot in recent years. This is about veterans. But traumatic stress and the experiences that come with being at war also affect other groups, for example. refugees who are in Norway, who have experience that we may not have entered fully into before the last few years, torture victims, for example, and children who are growing up under totally unsustainable conditions related to violence and abuse situations, and who have some of the same types of reactions. There is, of course, a diversity of groups which in themselves are affected by the need to strengthen the supply of health services, but in the case of the veterans, we have a particular national responsibility, because we have actually sent them out. That's a little bit of a difference. We are very pleased that the government has taken this into account. The size has debated the matter in connection with the big message, but in addition it remains a good deal before we can say that things are good enough. It may never be good enough, either, but at least so good that we can be proud of it. The survival of the veterans is about the recognition, security and propriety of the people involved. If we send out soldiers in war, in peacekeeping or peace-building operations, we have a clear responsibility to support them afterwards. Then it's about getting involved in what it means concretely to the individuals. For example, the interpellant raised this with the gender perspective, understanding that it might be harder for men to talk about some of these things. Perhaps you need to be more on-going towards men in order to get some of the problems that many have to deal with in retrospect. This with relatives is not least very important as well. If it's the case that the relatives perceive it so that they don't know where to turn, we have to look at how we can then make sure they know where to turn, and that when they contact, they should know that they are being taken care of. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the government will continue to work on developing the compensation scheme, which, together with the objective compensation scheme, is a great promise despite all the veterans in Norway. I would also like to point out that in the years to come, there will be new challenges that we are currently just seeing the outlines of. Norway participates in a war in Afghanistan. It is something quite different from the peacekeeping operations we have been involved in before, and we have a huge responsibility to help those we send to Afghanistan, with the problems and challenges they might have to face afterwards, but also to be honest and direct about what this entails, including in terms of the risk to those who are being sent out. It is a social responsibility that we have and that we can contribute to as representatives of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e577	First, I would like to thank both the interpellant and my co-representatives for their very good contributions. Special Representative Hageseter had a strong post. I want to start from the veterans who are still serving, to raise a new dimension in the debate, because there are a lot of people who have been on a mission, who are at home, who are going out again, and who are part of the defense. The soldiers who are out at irregular intervals live in a community, have a family, have kids in school, and it affects the whole environment. It is very important for us and for the defense's quality that you have a good follow-up arrangement for those who have been out and who are going out again, so that you can stand as a soldier over time. It ensures quality if we have soldiers who want to stand for more than two to three years, that you can be a soldier, have experience, and at the same time have a security in terms of family, school and kids – being followed up in a good way and having a competent defense that can take into account the family's needs. What I want to talk about is prevention. In terms of prevention for young people, we have a long experience in Norway. We have coordinated local measures, that state, municipality, school, health care sister and police are joining forces and using all the resources of society to solve youth challenges. Our four largest defence municipalities – the army municipalities, two in Troms and two in Hedmark – should have a similar project. We should have coordinated local measures, where we can use state resources through specialist health services, we can use local health resources, and the defence resources – use all the resources available in a local environment, through the municipality, the state and the defence, to coordinate local measures around family, school and individual soldiers. It is important that we start early, as in the Interaction Reform, to prevent and address challenges at an early stage. For example, if you have: reading divorce statistics, and looking at soldiers who have been out a lot, there is, unfortunately, not particularly enjoyable reading. It is stressful to have a mother or father who is often out in service — with uncertain news, where what is happening in the world is strongly influenced. So I think we should start a project with the largest and heaviest defence municipalities, and use the same model that we have used for prevention – coordinated local action. Then there's one thing I want to say, and it's about mental health protection. It's a challenge that many of those who serve don't want to say that they want to talk to the psychologist. They are afraid that if you ask that question, it may seem negative for further service. Because it is the defense itself – or the employer – who offers psychologists, and you are afraid to tick on the form that it would be useful to have a conversation with a psychologist when you get home from work. For this reason, I believe it is important that the four heaviest defence municipalities build up their own competences in the field of mental health protection, that those living in the local environment can benefit from the same competence outside the employer's resources, so that they do not have to be afraid – with or without reason – of seeking professional and good help. I hope that we will be able to – build up a mental health protection in the heaviest municipalities – and that they can become a resource for other municipalities that have veterans. Because there are veterans around the whole of Norway, and everyone lives in a municipality, but I think if we grab the four heaviest municipalities and build it up there first, then they can be a resource where there is the greatest need. At the same time, however, these municipalities can be attracted by other municipalities around the whole of Norway, which get veterans home. So my point in my post is that we have to see the whole thing. We have to see the family, we have to see the kids, and we have to get hold of it early, so that there are fewer problems. It's the whole family that's being affected, and that's why we have to use all the local resources to build up and take care of our soldiers when they're in service – take care of the family, the kids, the soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e592	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Trine Skei Grande, for correcting the search for the veterans. It's a nice entrance the representative has to the challenges, that this is important because the soldiers are actually making a great effort for the community, and that it deserves our deepest respect. With its decisions to send Norwegian soldiers out in conflict, the Storting also has responsibility for securing soldiers who have contributed to international operations, good and correct follow-up before, during and after the service. And that's an important question Trine Skei Grande asks the Council of State: how does the Council of State contribute to building skills and capacities in civil health in this area? We all know that there are very special challenges here. We are many in the Christian People's Party who have a strong commitment to the matter of science, both from a health point of view and from a defence point of view. This is about seeing the individual human being and the extreme experiences and pressures that this human being is subjected to in the field. It's about taking the individual seriously and not leaving it to itself – so many people have said they've been before. In the spring of 2009, we underlined that it was good for the government to respond to the Storting request for a review of the needs, consequences and solutions of personnel involved in international operations. It concerns the preparation and conduct of foreign operations and the follow-up of staff after they have returned. There is also a need for a more holistic approach to the needs of veterans across different sectors of society, as many have experienced in the past. The Minister of Health of today strongly engaged himself as Minister of Defence in this work, and she should be recognised for that. Several improvements have been made in recent years. For its part, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that the defence should have a medical follow-up responsibility for the first five years after the end of service, and later, if necessary. We believe that one year is very small. In addition, we believe that the objective responsibility should also apply to the old cases, and those who have their injuries before 2010. But just that bit I'm not going to spend any more time now, it's not the topic of this debate. Now that the need for psychological and psychiatric follow-up after more than one year has passed since repatriation, is to be met by the civil health system, we are concerned that the civil health system is able to handle this responsibility. According to the 2011 Health Budget, the Defence Sanity and Regional Resource Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, East, have developed a training package for doctors and psychologists. This is a training package to ensure that veterans in need of psychological or psychiatric follow-up are provided with adequate health care both in the municipal and specialised health services. This training package, as I understand it, is to be implemented in 2011 – I think the Council of State was in on it. I have a question about exactly that: is it about thorough training and real skills enhancement in these groups, i.e. more than circular writing or that veterans should get help? I am interested in – what is contained in these training packages. According to the 2011 Defence Budget, all veterans can make contact with the Defense at any time if they experience health disorders that may be related to the Defence Service for advice and guidance. This was also the Council of State within its post. However, it is clarified in the defence budget that veterans from foreign operations should always be followed up by relevant actors such as the health services, the State Pension Fund and the Nav. Does it also mean that the health service of the Defence Agency – as you can make contact there all the time – is able to take care of the increased attendance of veterans with health problems, who certainly need advice and guidance from the Defence Agency as well? Because that will also take time, I think, before the civil health system is fully capable of handling this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e610	The soldiers serving Norway abroad make a formidable effort and deserve the highest respect for the job they do. It is difficult, perhaps almost impossible, for us to put ourselves into the tough situations that our women and men on foreign missions have to deal with. It is not easy to know what deep tracks it can put in the human mind to experience war, see human distress or live with serious threats as part of everyday life, but that many need help to process the impressions of war acts, we understand well. Veterans shall be sure to receive the assistance they need when they need it; it shall not be on the offer on the day on which they are prepared to seek help. For many, that's exactly what's demanding – to realize that you need help, and then go to the step actually to get it. For many veterans, the doorstep mile stops them, and it's sad to hear the stories of former soldiers who end up in drug problems and perhaps with broken family ties. That interpellant takes up, are important issues, which I think all the parties here at the Storting are concerned about. I would like to stress what the Council of State said in its statement that the government assumes that society has a clear and lifelong responsibility to care for the crew sent to foreign operations. It is an important principle that should contribute to increased security for our defence personnel. The working party has as its general principle that the public health system should be for everyone. The services provided shall be good, fair and equally distributed. Our health system should offer individually adapted services to the entire population, including, of course, to our veterans. This is why the main responsibility for the overall supply and follow-up of veterans in the health care system lies, and this must be the case. We can't build a military health system parallel to the public. The competence of veterans for special challenges needs to be built up within the public mental health service, but of course with the help and contribution of the top competence they possess in defence. All responsible establishments in charge of support for veterans shall share the necessary competences with each other. These establishments are primarily the health services, the Defence, the Nav and the State Pension Fund. It's a work that's going well, and many are fortunately getting the help they need. It is clear from the veterinary report that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health agree that those in need of psychiatric, psychological or other necessary medical follow-up should receive it in a coordinated health service. The health follow-up of veterans requires the further strengthening and development of national health professional competences, as demonstrated by that communication. The new, important change in the defence personnel law that we heard the Council of State talk about, which ensures defence personnel after the completion of foreign missions with follow-up in the first year at home, is also a very important contribution in this way. Psychiatric health protection in Norway has been strengthened by the Roadmap for Mental Health, which has lasted over a decade. A general strengthening of the mental health system will benefit everyone who needs help, including the veterans. It is important to emphasise that the government is very concerned about putting in place support and guidance measures for the family members of the veterans. The defence has strengthened its family policy, including: through increased family supplementation, addition of family coordinators and introduction of routine family days. This is a very positive work. A Danish children’s book aimed at providing information to children with relatives in foreign service has now been translated and made available to Norwegian children. Veterans following foreign operations are a group with an increased risk of developing mental problems. The draft budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare gives the National Centre of Knowledge on Violence and Traumatic Stress a key role in research into psychological damage at the veterans of the Defence. The defence contributes resources to this centre, and the government proposes that cooperation can continue. We are committed to balancing social health differences and providing an equivalent and good health offer to everyone, regardless of their group and their background. In this picture, veterans must also be sure to get good, professional offers on the day they know they need help. They have, like everyone else, a right and a right to, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e633	I just have a brief addendum to a very good debate, which has focused on a very important question, namely the situation of the veterans and an emphasis on the responsibility of society, both towards the veterans, towards the soldiers – and their families. What I want to add in the debate at the very end is a follow-up to what the Council of State said in its reply, namely that the government – as a follow-up to St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009 – will present a new action plan. Then I would like to stress, and encourage very strongly, that the veterans' own organizations are involved in the work that is going on. The experience and competences they possess are very important – vitally important – in order to develop a good and satisfactory health service. We have just had, and we have, consultations on the health budget, and the organisations have been there. I notice that the recordings that are coming are based on the need to develop living conditions studies and to identify the situation of the veterans. It is emphasised that we need to have a streamlined service within the civil auxiliaries, we need to put critical searchlights on whether we have an appropriate organisation of the service, whether it is maintained according to what was underlined in St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009, and whether there is a good enough transfer of competences between the defence auxiliaries/health services and the civil society. These experiences and recordings are important, and I would encourage the Council of State to say something about it in its response now at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e645	First of all, I would like to thank all the parties for participating in the debate, which has been important. And then I would like to thank Gjermund Hagesetter for being able to contribute his private history in such a debate; it was actually important for the debate. I am looking for a basic position in Parliament. I visited my American family in the Midwest, and we discussed the war in Iraq, which they were very opposed to. The next day we looked at a parade, which you have in American cities, and when the veterans came by, they stood up in respect. I asked, weren't you against the war? They said, we're against the war, but we're not against the soldiers. It is an important aspect of the Norwegian debate in which I think we could perhaps learn from American culture: respect for those who are willing to sacrifice to us what is highest in life. It's going better, and there's a lot of work going on, but we're sending out more. There are more and more people who get the experience of being in war zones around the world, and that means that our apparatus must also be better. I very much agree with Battle Violence Vedum, which says that it must be completely in the system. And that's maybe a little bit of what I'm asking for, the seamless system, what can help in the defense, but also in the health care system. That's not exactly how I see the Council of State want it to be. I have been told stories from people who have been declared incapacitated in the Defense Records, who have been diagnosed with a strong diagnosis in the Defense Records, and who have been told to go home and take a good turn. There are a lot of people who get the'red dreams' quite many decades after they've been there, and then there's no apparatus standing there helping. I think that we're going to get into a good system, the defense and health care community have to cooperate much stronger than today, and it has to be that we actually bring the competence out to each one and maybe also follow up each one a lot more closely. We have to make it easier to be wives and husbands, to be mothers and fathers and children, and we have to give much more knowledge to people before they travel, about what they should actually be prepared for, so that those dreams become possible to live with afterwards. We in the Left will follow up on this further, and my call to the Council of State is to include the veterans in the work as well. It's been incredibly exciting to work with this interpellation because you get so many requests, you get so many stories, and there's so many who contribute with their experience. They should be taken closely into consideration by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e658	The articles in this debate really show how big the debate is and how complex it is. When I sat down there, I thought, is it as Minister of Health or as Minister of Defence I am now really here to respond to the interpellation? Fortunately, I have experience in both areas, and it is a bit necessary to answer from the Defence Department as well. It is very important that the defense takes its responsibility, many people have been involved. And then there's one thing: although all the veterans are entitled to the same follow-up, I think you have a much better overview and documentation of the soldiers that have been out in recent years than you had of those that were out a few years ago. And there's some of that that makes it difficult, that we've heard more people have been in today. The defence responsibility is clearly to take care of its personnel before, during and after they have been out. The defence's responsibility is also to ensure through its own office for psychiatry and stress testing, which is part of the health of the defence, that this competence comes into the civil health system. In my post I tried to be very thorough on how we work systematically to get this competence out into the regional centers, which there are five of them in the whole country. We need to use that method to increase competence through networks to succeed in this. Then I see that time goes very fast, but I just want to bring forward one thing that has been very important in all my work with veterans, namely the cooperation with the veterans' organizations. It's the way they know best what works, and how things should be. Through that, we've been strengthened by the support work, and I think the contributions of Hagesetter really remind us of this, that it's only those who've been out together, who can actually understand each other. It's something that's still coming back – and they can help each other. That's why the support work is so important; you can get back together later, after you've been out. It is important that the defense both facilitate it and follow it up, so that this is actually done. It is obvious that the veterans' organisations are involved in the further work on the action plan. I also mentioned that earlier in my article. Of course, it's very central. Then, as it says in this vet report, we're going to have a pilot project in a municipality. The Ministry of Defence and Health and Health are working to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e669	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e685	When the Foreign and Defence Committee recently visited China, Professor Zha Daoging of Beijing University said that China has taught the world that poverty is most effectively combated by integrating the poor countries into world trade. Now they share that lesson with poor countries in Africa, he said. It was when China in the 1980s reformed its economy and opened up to the outside world that the unique economic growth began. Even a country with nearly a quarter of the world's population could not develop economically in isolation from the outside world. There is no doubt that globalisation has brought hundreds of millions out of deep poverty because more and more countries are taking part in world trade. At the same time, this development implies stronger competition, shifting production and a constant need for development and conversion, both in the old industrialised countries and in the new ones. China has evolved to the world’s manufacturing workshop. India is growing as a global service shop. The site of industrialisation, Europe, loses jobs in goods-producing sectors requiring many hands in work and needs to convert to more knowledge-based industries and services. These developments raise important issues related to environmental considerations and the conditions for employees – issues to some extent regulated by the WTO Agreement and through the International Labour Organisation, the ILO. However, in the last decade we have seen strong growth in free trade agreements, because the negotiations on a new WTO agreement have been stalled for so long. Our Free Trade Organisation, EFTA, has since the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement with Turkey in April 1992, negotiated free trade agreements or started talks on them with a total of 27 countries in the Middle East, South America and Africa, and we are negotiating several agreements with a number of new countries in Asia. However, EFTA has not had special clauses relating to environmental and labour standards in its free trade agreements, only general references to other international declarations in the so-called preface to the agreements. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee addressed these issues three years ago. In the EFTA Council, Norway took the initiative to set up working parties to consider whether and how EFTA could place greater emphasis on sustainable development and employee rights in its free trade agreements. In the work of the parliamentary committee on these issues, we saw that the United States is the country which has the strongest and most binding provisions in these areas in its free trade agreements. They also have mechanisms for resolving disputes relating to infringements of those provisions. It was surprising for us. The EU is also ahead of EFTA in this area, in addition to the fact that the EU often combines free trade agreements with various forms of development and cooperation clauses and programmes. It is gratifying that, at its meeting in Reykjavik in June of this year, the EFTA Council agreed that future free trade agreements will have provisions to ensure that the agreements do not undermine environmental standards and employee rights in the contracting countries. In the case of employee rights, the provisions are based on the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Rights and thus ensure both freedom of organisation and collective bargaining. This work has taken longer than we thought it would take when it started, and there is no need to hide that there has been disagreement within EFTA – not about the importance of avoiding competition on the basis of poor environmental standards and unworthy employment conditions, but whether this should be part of the free trade agreements or essentially regulated by the ILO and the WTO. I am pleased that we have won with our wish that these questions also fall within the scope of the free trade agreements. The Minister of Industry and Trade deserves tribute for having convinced those EFTA colleagues who had to be persuaded. We know that there is a growing concern that the integration of poor countries into world trade will contribute to economic development in these countries that benefits people most. It is a fear that economic growth can strengthen economic and social divisions and weaken the opportunities for small businesses in these countries. In countries with low labour rights and low occupational mobility, there is a fear that conditions may deteriorate rather than improve. These are, of course, issues that need to be resolved primarily through the countries' own political institutions. However, demands for decent employment and environmental considerations in free trade agreements will be a contribution to and an emphasis on our shared responsibility that such important and general principles underpin economic relations between countries. Then we should be aware that one thing is to formulate good provisions in a free trade agreement, or in international conventions, for that matter. Something else is to agree on this, and even more demanding it may be to put the good intentions into life. What appears from our point of view to be correct, reasonable and reasonable may, on the part of the counterparty — with equal rights — be seen as protectionist measures. And that's enough in this issue we find the reason that the United States is the country that is the strongest in its claims to the counterparty in these areas. We know the issue well from the EEA Agreement and the legislation of the internal market. Uniform rules shall ensure a level playing field. High standards of health, environment and safety must protect both the environment, workers and consumers. The result has been that, through its legislation, the EU does not just set the standard for us in Europe; the EU sets the standard for all those who want to sell their goods and services on the European market. Another example is how demanding it is to get what we all want, namely increased imports of agricultural products from poor African countries. Through the free trade agreement between EFTA and the South African customs union, SACU, we have opened up an annual duty-free import quota of approx. 4,7 tonnes of beef and veal. It's equal to 5 pst. of our meat consumption, so it's not a negligible volume. The main problem for producers in Namibia, Botswana and Swaziland lies in our European veterinary regulations and safety food requirements. It is an example of how necessary and correct quality requirements in practice act as barriers to trade. For the Africans, who eat this meat without our quality requirements being met, it's close to seeing this as a subtle form of protectionism. The solution to such dilemmas may be what Nortura does in Namibia, which is to help the slaughterhouses in these countries meet European standards. I am making this clear because the debate on how, through our free trade agreements, we can contribute to sustainable development and a decent working life is more complex than formulating provocative demands with good intentions into an agreement. Therefore, perhaps the question to the Council of State is how we can ensure that future free trade agreements contribute to sustainable development and a decent working life rather than to do so. Some other answers than yes to the last one I think would surprise us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e732	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. He has already foreseen one part of the answer, namely that free trade will be the future. The world is becoming more internationalized. The economy is even stronger linked. The range of production, cooperation, consumption patterns, raw materials and technologies are bound together both across borders and across continents more than ever before. The Norwegian Government intends to be an active part of this future economy. Of course, this has challenges, but it also has opportunities that we have to exploit as best we can. The interpellant asks a very central question: how can we ensure sustainable development while at the same time contributing to this global economy? Sustainable development requires environmental, economic and social developments to meet the needs of both present and future generations. Therefore, both the care of environmental concerns and the safeguarding of social standards through decent working conditions are part of the prerequisites for such sustainable development. As it says in Soria Moria II: ‘Norway shall be a priority country in environmental policy.’ And the environment must be taken into account. ‘be pervasive in everything we do’. We also stress in Soria Moria II that the government will pursue a policy based on sustainable development. In this context, I would also refer to paragraph 4 of the Government's strategy for a decent working life globally, where it says: ‘Norway shall be a driver to promote the importance of decent working conditions also in trade policy, including in bilateral trade agreements and in agreements between several countries and regions.’;» [[“Decent Work”]] We also need to make clear demands that the ILO core conventions be respected. It has always been our goal that Norway should be the leader in the work on global standards for corporate social responsibility. As the interpellant rightly points out, it is important that free trade agreements between countries do not undermine these key objectives. This is something we have with us in the WTO negotiations and in bilateral negotiations. The WTO negotiations focus on the relationship between trade and the environment, and the government's aim is to ensure that international environmental agreements and WTO legislation are 'equivalent, equal and mutually supportive', as is also stated in Soria Moria II. As far as labour rights are concerned, it has not been possible to reach agreement among WTO member countries on this on the agenda. However, the government is also working to get this issue on the WTO agenda in the future. My responsibility is the bilateral trade agreements. Most of these are negotiated through EFTA cooperation. We primarily conclude trade agreements with other countries to ensure value creation in Norway. Several of the trade agreements concluded up to now by Norway have references to sustainable development and labour standards in the preamble to the Agreement, precisely to underline the importance of these considerations and to recognise the existence of overlapping elements between agreements in these areas and key provisions of the EFTA trade agreements. Sustainable development must be seen in the context of trade, and we therefore want an even stronger link to these considerations in the agreements. It is a new development that these issues form part of bilateral trade agreements. This is a development we meet with joy. In 2008 the Government took the initiative to set up two working groups, one for the environment and the other for employee rights at the EFTA ministerial meetings in June and November of the same year. The working groups should assess whether, and in the case of how, these issues are to be addressed in future EFTA trade agreements. And with renewed confidence in 2009, the government promised that it would continue to work to ensure that EFTA's processes in this area came to port. It was therefore a great pleasure to be present at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in June 2010, when the working parties presented their final report with proposals on how to ensure the environment and employee rights in the EFTA trade agreements. In concrete terms, the proposal is to include a chapter on sustainable development, with binding provisions on the environment and employee rights, as a common starting point for EFTA in ongoing and future negotiations on trade agreements. Before I go into the very follow-up to the proposal of the EFTA Working Party, I would like to tell you a little bit about the content of the new chapter. The proposed chapter confirms that international trade, including EFTA trade agreements, is to contribute to sustainable development and sets out a number of obligations for the parties to achieve that objective. The Parties recognise that economic development, social development and environmental protection are mutually dependent and supportive elements of sustainable development. Furthermore, the parties confirm their obligations under environmental protection agreements and the ILO declarations and core conventions. The chapter contains operational provisions in which the parties agree to establish a high level of protection of the environment and labour standards in legislation, policies and practices and to work to further improve the level of protection. They also undertake to enforce their own legislation in these areas effectively and not to lower the level of protection of workers and the environment in order to promote trade or attract investment. The Chapter obliges the Parties to promote trade in goods, services and investments that are environmentally friendly and contribute to sustainable development. The central point of the chapter is the creation of an arena to address trade and sustainable development issues between the parties and the consensus that it is necessary to respect fundamental principles in this area. Provision is made for the creation of own contact points and a separate consultation mechanism for the chapter. Questions which are not resolved by these procedures may be referred to consultations and mediation under the ordinary dispute resolution mechanism of the agreement. In this way, breach of the provisions of the Agreement could result in significant political pressure. In a speech to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, the main business organisation expressed the desire that environmental and climate issues be given a central place in the trade agreements that Norway is now negotiating with China and India through EFTA. Before the new chapter on sustainable development was completed, the NHO asked that EFTA and Norway should upgrade their model of trade agreements to include more environmental provisions than current practices. That wish has been met. We have also had a good dialogue with the employee organisations, and the fact that the ILO regulations now have a central place in our trade agreements is something I know that trade unions see as a positive development. Follow-up to the recommendation of the EFTA Working Group is underway. In the ongoing trade negotiations with China and Hong Kong, the new positions have already been presented and brought to the negotiating table. In the negotiations with India, the negotiator has informed India that this will be presented. Negotiations with a number of countries such as Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro, Indonesia and Malaysia are planned to start. In all these negotiations, this theme will be a natural part of the texts presented to the counterparty. There is agreement in EFTA that this should constitute a common starting position in our ongoing and future negotiations. Mandatory provisions on environment and employee rights in future trade agreements to which Norway is a party will be an important contribution to the achievement of the government’s objective of trade agreements that take account of those considerations. However, there is reason to stress that this is relatively new and partly debated in negotiations on trade agreements. It has, for example, from a number of developing countries, it has been argued that provisions on sustainable development in trade agreements are a form of protectionism on the part of rich countries. That is not the intention of the proposal. Nevertheless, it is important to note that it may be a challenge to accept such provisions in the negotiations. We do not expect our negotiators to necessarily assume large, comprehensive new obligations on labour standards and environmental protection in bilateral trade agreements. However, by including provisions on sustainable development in trade agreements, we accept that this is relevant to trade policy. By doing so through a network of bilateral agreements between many countries, we also strengthen the basis for bringing this discussion into the WTO. The establishment of links between international trade and sustainable development strengthens further international work on the environment and employee rights in forums such as the ILO and international organisations dealing with environmental protection. The government will work towards our negotiators agreeing to include environmental and employee rights provisions in the agreements, thus creating acceptance that economic activity and trade have important implications for sustainable development. The Government has decided that a chapter on sustainable development with binding provisions on the environment and employee rights should be a common starting point for EFTA in ongoing and future negotiations on trade agreements. Our negotiators are often large countries, and we do not always have all the negotiating weight we might want. On the other hand, we can have a parallel view with, for example, The United States or the EU on many issues, but sometimes these are the ones that need to ensure the effectiveness of new principles. We can, by coordinating with them, get even greater weight behind these questions. As the interpellant refers to, in its recent trade agreements, countries such as the United States, Canada and the EU have operated with stronger provisions in the field of sustainable development than the EFTA trade agreements have done. That's why it's an important job to coordinate ourselves with these so that we're in advance internationally in this area. We're on that path now – we're on our way among the countries that are ahead of developments to link the environment, workers' rights and trade conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e780	I would like to thank you for a thorough and positive response. I believe that what is on the table by the EFTA side, as a basis for future negotiations, is very good and, in my opinion, meets the needs we have called for in relation to free trade agreements in order to underline the importance that free trade and globalisation of the economy must be based on sustainable development. If not, the back of the medal is too heavy and difficult, and we are, of course, far too much involved in the climate debate on these issues. The same applies to employee rights. If the economic development generated by trade is to benefit the population of countries with major social inequalities and poverty challenges, workers must also benefit from decent working conditions, pay, etc. It is very gratifying that this also has support from the employer’s side in Norway. I think it's clear that competing in a global economy without any protection against bad environmental conditions, poor working conditions, is difficult for serious companies, it's going to be difficult to cope with competition. So it remains to see if we get the acceptance for it, as the Minister of Industry said. Perhaps what we should consider on the EFTA side is whether to build around the trade agreements: some assistance in countries that need it, capacity to build legislation, build environmental monitoring mechanisms, and help them meet the demands we make – as I mentioned in my first post on imports of meat from poor countries in Africa. It is expanding the EFTA portfolio. But that's also something I think we have to take into account, so that this doesn't become a paper tiger, but can come into effect in future trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e789	I agree with the interpellant in everything he says. I think this is partly about the fact that, through trade agreements, we can help raise environmental standards, contribute to a positive development in business and economic life elsewhere and also contribute to employee rights and the fight against social dumping and unworthy employment. This is important for us regardless of trade issues. These are important objectives for which the Norwegian Government is working in many contexts, including in development policy and foreign policy. And then there's an additional dimension too: if we're going to have accepted for opening up markets, have international trade and get an international division of labour, I think people also have to see that this benefits most people, and that this is not used as a means to push employee rights in Norway, push environmental standards or push the social conditions that we expect. It's not like everyone's as lucky as we are. People live in poverty, people live in unworthy conditions. It is far from joy that characterizes working conditions in many countries. It's clear that if we just open up markets passively without simultaneously taking these questions into account, we're going to face a lot of resistance to getting a more international economy. So all of this is related. The conclusion of international free trade agreements will largely be based on the fact that we also succeed in solving environmental challenges and employee rights. We know that Norwegian companies and Norwegian businesses have long traditions to work closely with employees, have dialogue, provide rights and negotiating powers, etc. This is a competitive advantage for Norway. We can combine this with a strong growth. It's actually a model, I think, that we can also present around the world as a much better alternative to market liberalism and free force games.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e798	Let me first compliment the interpellant on raising an important debate in an undervalued policy area. Trade policy is particularly important for a small country on the outskirts of Europe with a very outward economy. As you know, the EEA Agreement maintains links with our main trading area. Nevertheless, it is important that we have a set of free trade agreements with third countries, either bilaterally or through the EFTA Free Trade Organisation, whose eligibility is to negotiate free trade on behalf of the Member States of Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway. Trade is often a gateway to further cooperation between nations, and then we are right at the heart of today's topic: whether it is appropriate and correct or to what extent we want to build other conditions into our trade agreements, such as fundamental human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of organisation, professional rights or environmental standards and climate requirements. Now I share the assessments of the EFTA Committee and the Council of State in this way. I believe in principle that there are good reasons to extend the terms of future trade agreements, both those we negotiate bilaterally, and those of EFTA. I don't think it'll be easy. For example, if we were to demand freedom of expression and organisation in the ongoing trade agreement negotiations with China, I am afraid that the negotiations could quickly end. Now it may well be that they do it anyway, and precisely for that reason, but not because Norwegian dealers have been hard on human rights issues. Now, of course, it won't be that all the agreements are cut across the same reading. Countries have different interests and different levels of development. Nor can it be that we make stronger demands on some countries and are more vulnerable to others. In addition, we need to be prepared to cost when we require potential contracting countries to commit themselves to respect international conventions and agreements, for example. countries which do not comply with the ILO Conventions or which violate human rights. As the interpellant correctly points out, the United States and the EU go further and impose stricter requirements in these areas than EFTA in its current free trade agreements. In other words, we are in good company when we now tighten the requirements and also include dispute settlement clauses in future agreements for use, if it turns out that our parties to the agreement do not comply with the obligations assumed. The Labour and Social Committee has recently visited several African countries, among others. to look at the ILO's work for decent work, i.e. ‘decent work’. In countries with extensive unemployment and without an organised working life, it is, of course, difficult to assert general employee rights. Nevertheless – in such countries, trade is, and I would say decent trade regimes, an important source of development. EFTA has today negotiated a trade agreement with Colombia – an agreement that is now in sleep mode as Colombia is one of the countries that justly ratifys the ILO Conventions but still does not comply with the content of the Conventions and which harasses and imprisons trade union leaders. I have to admit that I have asked myself the question: would it be better or worse for the trade unions in Colombia to ratify the agreement? I do not think the answer is obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e817	We in the Progress Party are as well-known strong supporters of free trade and hope that in the future we can remove all the high customs walls around Norway, so that everyone can freely sell their goods to Norway without such obstacles, to the joy of producers and workers in other countries and to the joy of Norwegian consumers. The question from Svein Roald Hansen from the Workers' Party is interesting, but I don't know if I'm going to interpret it to that point that the Workers' Party wants Norway to interfere in domestic political relations in other countries and with the demand for e.g. the minimum remuneration for the conclusion of free trade agreements with other countries by Norway. I am also sceptical that Norway should interfere with other countries' environmental policies. Does it mean, then, that the Norwegian standard should be the basis for discussion with other countries? Is the standard we have in Norway in 2010, with the prosperity development we have had in Norway in the last 80 or 100 years, well aided by the discovery of oil and its export in the last ten years, also applicable to poor countries, which are not where Norway is today prosperous? In this context, for example: It is important to remember that not many years have passed since child labour was common and absolutely necessary in Norway, that Norway was one of the poorest countries in Europe. How would we have reacted if other countries had made demands on labour rights, wages, the ban on child labour and so on? to sell our goods to them without high customs walls? It is positive that Norway uses its opportunities to play an international driving role in social responsibility. But if this is the first step on the road towards imposing strange regulations and rules on other states in Norway, I am very sceptical. This applies to Norwegian rules, but also to ethical rules, which are applicable in connection with the management of the Staten pension fund abroad. There you leave it to invest in companies like this. produces tobacco, because Norway considers it to be unethical. In that way, we have become a world's moral police. I hope this isn't the intention of Svein Roald Hansen. There should be clear limits on whether ethical values and conditions beyond the borders of Norway are to be regulated by the Norwegian authorities. Many poor countries in the world are in great need of international investment. To impose extensive requirements on e.g.: pay conditions could lead to companies refraining from investing in these countries, which are thus missing out on economic developments. It is in any case better that it is a Norwegian company that invests in or trades with companies in the country with which Norway enters into a free trade agreement. Norwegian companies are very concerned about having a good trade mark and are served that workers have good working conditions. Norwegian companies operating abroad are very often given good shots in relation to other companies in other countries. In the rich OECD countries, child labour disappeared in the 1970s. In the developing world, it has almost halved since the 1980s, from 23 pst. to 12 pst. So it is not capitalism that has created child labour, but it is capitalism and free trade that abolishes this revival from the pre-industrial economy. Anticapitalists encourage us to boycott goods produced by poorly paid workers in developing countries. If many followed such a call, these workers would lose their job. If one consequence is that another country does not wish to have a free trade agreement with Norway because Norway imposes strict requirements – who is going to suffer? Of course, it will affect the enterprises in the country with which there will be no free trade agreement. There will be less trade between these two countries and fewer Norwegian investments. I would therefore dare to claim that the only thing worse than being exploited is not being exploited. Another thing that I'm asking is what's the background for this interpellation. Is it the free trade agreement between Colombia and EFTA that was signed on 25 November 2008? This Agreement includes trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights and bilateral agreements between Colombia and the EFTA States relating to agricultural products. This agreement could contribute to growth and prosperity both in Colombia and Norway. Two years after the signature of the agreement, the size has not yet obtained the contractual clauses for ratification. Since 1960, EFTA has concluded free trade agreements with a number of countries, and now we are negotiating with China. Not all countries have equally clean scrolls for the protection of fundamental human rights, freedom of the press, etc. Among other things, Colombia is much better off than many of the countries with which free trade agreements have actually been concluded. We have not seen that LO, the Church's Emergency Aid or Norwegian People's Aid have criticized the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e845	Let me start by giving tribute to the interpellant who is addressing this topic, not only because the theme itself is very important, but because the interpellant is one of the few representatives in Stortinget who are both very interested in the topic and who also addresses questions related to the Free Trade Association EFTA. EFTA is, of course, our European anchor, which, through the EEA Agreement, ensures us access to the EU's internal market. Several of those who have spoken out in today's debate have underlined that there are other organisations, federations, who are driving forces in this area of which the interpellant is concerned and which he is asking questions about today. There has also been some debate in recent years relating to the EFTA Free Trade Agreements, in particular in relation to the balance between the agreements concluded by EFTA and bilateral agreements and the requirements imposed by the EFTA side in such negotiations. It is therefore profitable that the interpellant gives us an opportunity to discuss these questions also in Stortinget, because it is relatively rare. The council reminded us of the EFTA ministerial meeting. I assume it was the same meeting he was attending in Reykjavik, which reached a kind of political agreement that environment and employee rights will be included in free trade agreements in the future. I also share the inter-pellant's interest in how this work works in practice. In recent years free trade negotiations within the EFTA framework have been well demonstrated both by the fact that EFTA gives some weight to negotiation and that EFTA countries do not always share the same priorities and the same interests. Both the representatives Gullvåg and Rytman were concerned with the lack of ratification of the free trade agreement with Colombia, and I think that is all reason to stress that we have been waiting for this since 2008. For some reason, this has been withheld because of strong criticism from various organisations and also from the trade movement. I believe, as Mr Rytman also stressed, that ratification will be mutually beneficial for both Norway and Colombia – whether we get this agreement ratified. Of course, the right supports free trade, because it contributes to economic growth and development. Open borders and democracy are the way to success for every nation, and we must never forget this. Of course, we see the need for free trade agreements such as Norway to be linked to general human rights and, as others point out, now also linked to environmental protection. In fact, limiting the freedom of action of a country, in particular the freedom to close trading partners out of its markets and to arbitrarily impose worse conditions on foreign operators, is one of the most central elements of free trade agreements. If our businesses do not have stable and predictable market access, it will be less attractive to act. If trading becomes less attractive, there will also be less growth and less development. But it doesn't have to be that we have to have one standard for our channels through the Free Trade Association EFTA, and then we're going to have another standard for bilateral agreements. The representative of Gullvåg stated that this might not be so easy when we're dealing with the major power that has the greatest growth in international trade today, China, also in relation to Norway, the mutual relationship with Norway. We cannot have a double standard from the Norwegian side in this political work. It is quite correct – and we have to be open – that we have to stress that this is not easy. There must be employee rights, environmental standards, currency standards, etc. which causes workers in one country to disfavor in relation to other countries. It is very nice that the term "environmental standard" is included in this image. We see that when the EU is concerned with carbon leakages, it is also, in fact, about having traffic rules in trade and conditions that enable them to be felt equally across borders. If they act in a different way, we set a double standard, and I assume that nobody in this debate wants that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e864	First, I would like to thank the representative Svein Roald Hansen for addressing this important issue. The fight for environment, democracy, human rights and social standards is central to SV's policy. So we're very happy that we're able to discuss this here in the hall, because it's a question that we rarely see in a holistic perspective. As has been said before, not least when it relates to the issue of trade agreements, things often happen outside this room. Therefore, it is important that these principles are recorded in this room at regular intervals. Trade can create development and lift people out of poverty. But trade agreements may also have an adverse effect. Trade agreements can also legitimize dictatorial and electoral regimes, and in worst cases they can strengthen a dictator in his position in relation to democratic forces and trade union movements. Trade agreements may also strengthen international capital forces which do not concern the environment or professional justice. We have many examples of international groups being able to cope in countries with weak laws and regulations and leaving nature in a state that we cannot accept. We also have many examples of internationally strong capital forces that have pushed out local actors and at the same time have relations for employees and other social conditions that are not acceptable to a standard that we can accept, for example. With regard to what we can expect to enter into a trade agreement with countries with which we want to have increased interaction. In 2008, the government announced St.melding. No 10 for 2008-2009 on corporate social responsibility in a global economy. There is a great deal of emphasis here on employee rights globally. The Communication stated that Norway and the Norwegian business community should strengthen the work on professional and social rights. It has also been suggested that Norway should be a driver to promote the core ILO conventions and decent working conditions, often referred to as ‘decent work’ in good Norwegian. The same message emphasises that Norway should be a driver for business to take care of the environment and climate also in countries that have weakly developed laws and regulations in this area. It is important to follow up St.meld. No 10 when we're going to make bilateral trade agreements, that we're going to show that the expectations we have for business are also following us when we go in and negotiate, and that we're going to show what kind of expectations we have for our trading partners. Trade and trade agreements may create developments, but it is important that there should be incentives to promote governance, human rights, the environment and professional and social rights – even when trade agreements may contain investment agreements. It is positive that the Minister of Industry shows such an offensive attitude to this question in his answer here today, and it is important that Norway is at the forefront in this area, and that we put forward a strategy in which we can say with our backs that we are following our intentions also in negotiations, even if, as many have said, there are complex questions, and the balance between getting something to happen and just running symbol policies can be demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e877	It's an important theme of the big business representative, Hansen, here, dealing with his interplay. Putting international agreements on the agenda in this way shows a political visionary attitude, focusing on decent working life and sustainable development to a greater extent than has been done in the past. It is important that the government keep the tab high in these matters. It is good that industry itself through the NHO has asked the government to ensure that environmental and climate issues are properly addressed in the trade agreements it is now negotiating. I'm glad that increasing internationalization of business is a priority task for the government. There is no doubt that the Minister of Industry has put the free trade agreement high on the agenda. Ensuring good access to foreign markets by Norwegian enterprises is important for increased production, high employment and industrial development in Norway. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we practice trade policy in a way that makes it a natural part of a whole red-green policy. The provisions on environment and employee rights in the Trade Agreement are important to contribute to a trade policy that promotes social conditions and sustainable development. As the Council of State said in its statement, much is being done to take account of the special needs of developing countries in the agreements and, above all, to focus on issues such as human rights and the environment. Mandatory provisions on employee rights are also important in this context. Through the negotiations with the different countries, it is important to be clear what we have as demands and expectations of the entire contractual relationship. Trade agreements are important for Norway, for the Norwegian export industry and for all those who live by selling goods or services to Norwegian exporters, not least for all communities benefiting from the existence of local companies that are competitive internationally. This is not least about jobs. The agreements ensure predictable market access for Norwegian products. Since Norway is an open economy country with many small and medium-sized enterprises, we have a strong interest in competition on equal terms. Trade agreements shall also contribute to greater transparency and predictability, which may contribute to a better governance of developing countries. Trade agreements can also make it easier for poor countries' authorities to resist pressure from powerful multinational companies that want tailor-made and favourable schemes, which I think may be underfocused on. Norway prioritises the trade agreement with China. The agreement is important in order to ensure good and predictable framework conditions for Norwegian companies in China. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Industry has given priority to this important work. The Industry Committee was visiting China in September. We then got a good insight into the wide range of contacts Norway and China have in ever new areas. About 200 Norwegian companies are established in China, and the country is our main trading partner in Asia. Our exports to China increased by over 40 pst. in 2009. Our economic relations are becoming increasingly important as China has a more central role to play in the world economy. Even with the little dip we are now seeing in progress, we hope that the negotiations can come back on track quickly. I am pleased with the government's decision that a chapter on sustainable development, with binding provisions on environmental and labour rights, should be the standard for EFTA in future and ongoing negotiations. The agreement of EFTA to establish a high level of protection of the environment and labour standards in legislation, policies and practices is very good. It will be exciting to follow this work further in the future. Important trade agreements shall be concluded in the years to come. It is therefore good that increased internationalisation of business is a priority task for the government. In conclusion, I must say that I am surprised at the representative of the Progress Party who goes up to the Chair and says that there is no need to impose any strange system on other countries, while the Progress Party Harald T. Nesvik was high on the track when the Business Committee was in China, and said that it was important to put employee relations and that area high on the agenda. Here the Progress Party speaks with at least two tongues. It could have been good to put in place what their policy is actually about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e908	Like many others, I would first like to thank the interpellant who addresses one of the most important issues of Norwegian foreign policy and trade policy, and I would like to thank you for recognising that what kind of trade agreements we make is a political issue. It is a question of democracy and a question of human rights. Therefore, the Government Declaration states that we should work for transparency in the EFTA processes. Transparency, of course, is a prerequisite for debate and therefore also a prerequisite for democracy. It may seem like a banal softness to say it that way, but it's important to bear in mind that openness is no obvious in this field. The interpellant underlines that both the US and the EU have stronger environmental and labour rights provisions in their trade agreements than EFTA. Some might be tempted to point out that this says more about EFTA than about the United States and the EU. Fine wording in new agreements must be followed up by action. We need good follow-up, and we need opportunities to sanction not to make fine resolutions and celebrations worthless. Trade is not a goal in itself. It is a means which, under the right conditions, is essential for economic development and therefore also for social development. Therefore, in the SV's view, trade must be subordinated to fundamental social considerations such as employment, the environment, labour rights and food sovereignty. Not least, developing countries need to be guaranteed the opportunity to protect national industries until they are able to compete on international markets, just as we could, up here in the north of the world. It is not a country that has the power to develop justice and democracy for all without the ability to protect its own resources and interests. World trade needs rules of the game, but there must be rules of the game that can satisfy greedy market forces and be based on the interests of people and the environment. These considerations must be given priority. Not only in the context of new agreements, but also those under way, for example: on the free trade agreement with Colombia. There I would like to add that those in this room who have been told that they may be in favour of ratifying the agreement must take into account that those working for human rights in Colombia – persecuted trade union activists, persecuted students – are against ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e925	I would also like to thank you for the opportunity for an important debate, because this is in many ways about how the large amount of money and the large structures have a negative or stimulating effect on important policy objectives, on climate, the environment and on workers' rights. In Norway, we not only have a very long tradition of employee rights, but it is also true that it has resulted in the country being civilised, the goods and the power being distributed, and it has been very effective and successful for the country as well. So this is a way to act that makes countries work more successfully. In May 2009, Norway launched the ‘decent work’ strategy. It was then Minister of Labour and Inclusion Dag Terje Andersen who did it. The Norwegian Government also stated that this type of right should be guaranteed in all policies, foreign policy and trade policy. It is extremely important because, as it is called in good Norwegian, ‘money talk’. And how our money and our purchasing power speak in the world, and what kind of development it promotes or inhibits, is very important. My associate Gullvåg and I were with the Labour and Social Committee in three African countries to follow this 'decent work' strategy now in September. We visited, for example: in Ethiopia, a rose producer following the ‘decent work’ strategy and also the ‘fair trade’ strategy, where workers are given proper pay conditions and where it is ensured that dangerous pesticides do not exist. In this way, good development in their territory is ensured, but they also ensure that we in Europe and Norway can buy flowers that we can conscientiously give away on appropriate occasions. Then our money speaks, and our money makes for good development in other countries, and it's very important that we do this. When the “decent work” strategy was launched here in Oslo in May 2009, the Secretary-General of the WTO, Lamy, was also present and gave a speech. I have noticed it, for it challenged us who are politicians, quite powerful. He pointed out that the World Trade Organisation has a lot of rules, and of course they have to. They also have sanctions when some countries violate the rules on trade and protection of that type of interest. Then he shows that in the ILO, which is the United Nations Labour and Decent Work organization – if we can call it it – there are a lot of conventions, to which most countries have actually joined, not just the core conventions that deal most with the basic issues of the labour market. Very many countries have joined these countries, without actually having any special effect. The ILO has no sanctions against countries that breach their obligations in the ILO. Lamy gave us a challenge as politicians, and it was as follows: If you are engaged in employee rights – he said that he was, and I believe him in that – because you see that there is a kind of right that creates development, you have to make sure that you have some sanctioning options related to the obligations also in the case of employee rights. How this is going to be done is, of course, an open question. If it would be right to do so within the World Trade Organisation or the ILO, I won't even wonder. But what I'm very pleased about is that the Norwegian government has joined a strategy that, on its own initiative, chooses to say that in all areas where we relate to the outside world, we should promote these important objectives, not only in terms of employee rights, but also to extend it beyond that perspective in terms of environment and sustainability. Finally, I must say that I am quite shaken by the posts of the representative Rytman, who believes that the worst thing you can experience is ‘not to be exploited’. There is a claim that I had hoped I would not hear in this room. This means that there is a total lack of understanding of decent working conditions in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e940	I would like to thank you for your commitment to the debate and for the contributions that have shown that there is a broad consensus on the new strategy for EFTA Free Trade Agreements, with one exception. When Rytman expresses himself so that one is skeptical about interfering in other countries' domestic policies, it sounds like an echo of the reaction of the Chinese government to the peace prize award. What Rytman ignores is that globalisation and increased cross-border trade are causing us to be influenced by each other, and thus involved in each other's domestic policies. There is no doubt that the interest rate decline we experienced from 2001/2002 is largely due to what happened in China. Then Rytman did not get the need that was so highlighted in the financial crisis, the need for more co-ordination of legislation across borders – a work in progress. To take a few other examples, it is good that Norwegian companies invest in other countries. Yes, but it is also good that we then contribute to these investments having a safe framework around them, that it does not happen in countries that have no legal framework around it. Rytman thought that this arranged the companies themselves, because they're busy with their image. Yes, how much did it cost to reveal the working conditions of Telenor's subcontractor in Pakistan? How much did Telenor cost in image loss and in rebuilding? That is why, when we are interwoven in the way we do through globalisation, we also have a common responsibility for these areas, and that is what it is about dealing with, whether it is in the context of the WTO, in the context of the ILO, or in the context of free trade agreements. And then, of course, we should be aware that there are limits to how many problems we can solve through free trade agreements between two, three or four countries. The starting point for free trade agreements, as pointed out by the Council of State, is to safeguard the interests and opportunities of our business in new markets, but we do best to do so by also incorporating environmental standards requirements, requirements for 'decent work'. So the Council of State pointed out – and I agree – that bringing such provisions into free trade agreements can help to create a break-up bar to also bring it into WTO context, which we have achieved in terms of environmental regulations, but not employee rights. It's always a strength to get it into multilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e953	Now the interpellant had a glittering summary of the interpellation debate. I also think that the debate has well illustrated the dilemmas involved in this area. Yes, we want to facilitate Norwegian business. Yes, we want more economic relations with other countries. And we want environment and employee rights. How do we get these things to play together? That is what this debate is about. I would like all parties in this Chamber to ask the question: How can Norway contribute? How can we – our business and our political authorities – help all those who have not yet experienced good enough jobs? How can we help to save this earth’s climate? Without solving those problems, Norwegian businesses are also feeling rather gloomy. If we can't have a planet that's balanced in its ecological accounts, and if we can't lift millions of people out of poverty and give them the same rights and opportunities that we have, then it'll be stupendous also in the length of profits in Norwegian businesses. I'm not going to comment on so many of the individual posts, but when Rytman asks about how we would have reacted a hundred years ago if someone from outside, for example. had demanded a ban on child labour, I think it depends very much on where we stood politically. My movement, my party, had cheered, for that is what we fought for. But then probably the political directions of Rytman had reacted with apprehension that it was possible to make such an uncritical demand that you had to stop working with children. We stopped working as a child. Maybe we would have gotten it before if we had got help from the outside, and that's how many people think around the world. It is good to take with us from the hall that we have the support of the Storting in the work we are doing to combine environment, employee rights and trade agreements. I'm simply inspired by the posts that are, and I'm taking this into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e964	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e980	I want to start my post by quoting Ronny Wilhelmsen, the union representative from the Workers' Party. He says the following: ‘We see that the state binds more and more important resource areas in Finnmark. By resource areas, I mean land and water areas used and harvested by the population. [[sea]] Step by step, the state takes over and binds the local population's resource areas, either by allocating rights in the resource areas to other than the local population or by protection. The population loses areas that they have managed and picked up their livelihood from since the dawn of time. I now understand that someone really wants to protect or give away the whole Finnmark, this they do by using extraction tactics; they take bit by bit until they have everything. I demand that the State is serious enough to create a comprehensive plan for the protection and grant of rights. If the State does not want/power this, I believe that all protective work will be stopped." I believe this Labour Party representative reflects the frustration of many in Finnmark. The Mining Company Nussir ASA recently entered into an undertaking with the Coalition on Mining in Kvalsund. The company also wants to engage in dialogue with reindeer management to find solutions that benefit all parties. The problem is that the reindeer don't feel safe. Head of Reinbeite District 22, Nils M. Utsi, is amazed by the agreement between the mining company and Sametinget, and compares such an agreement with the conclusion of a municipality or county municipality agreement with a private company to breed a farmer's land. He stresses that the establishment of a copper mine will have great consequences, and that the district cannot help digging its own grave. That's pretty strong words. Therefore, the time is overdue for a more comprehensive and strategic approach to the exploitation of the rich natural resources of North Norway. Today's policy line scares investors away and leads to unnecessarily high levels of conflict. North Norway is rich in natural resources, and opportunities are great both in fisheries and farming, mineral extraction, oil and gas, arctic agriculture and wind power – to mention something. Unfortunately, we lack a good overall and comprehensive approach to the exploitation of these rich resources. This leads to a bit-by-bit policy and unnecessary sharp conflict lines when, for example. relate to environmental considerations and to the needs of reindeer management and the rights of indigenous peoples. This situation may result in companies and investors being reluctant to invest in this area because of unsafe legislation and potential conflicts. The debate after the government granted 100 million. kr extra for looking for gold and other metals gives examples of this issue. The sewerage industry fears that today's bit-by-bit policy threatens the industry's livelihood. If grazing land disappears at the same rate as today, the Norwegian Reinbrytssamers Landsförbund believes that the industry will be gone in 50 years. It's not hard to understand that there can be frustration on both sides in these kinds of cases. Each resource-exploitation project can be both sound and properly isolated, at the same time contributing to a holistic view that is irresponsible. The Christian People's Party wants the rich resources we find in North Norway to be exploited in a sustainable way that benefits the entire continent. That is why we are raising this debate. The objective is an overall, comprehensive and strategic approach to the use of resources in the north, which can contribute to a better investment climate and mitigate the level of conflict. One of the rich resources in the north is mineral raw materials. World trade is becoming increasingly focused on mineral raw materials. If this industry is to be built up, there is a need for state framework conditions and instruments. In order to increase investment in Norway, and in particular in North Norway, capital access is important. It is therefore necessary to implement measures and instruments such as funds to strengthen the equity of competent parent companies, fiscal incentives for prospecting and infrastructure measures to reach the mineral deposits. The government is proposing to strengthen the mining and mineral industry in North Norway. That's good. The mining and mineral industry provides long-term jobs with high value creation. Minerals are raw materials on which modern industry and well-being depend. Higher price formation and the fight for monopolies are clear signals of the importance of many minerals in our modern society. Norway is far behind our neighbouring countries in registering these resources. Sweden and Finland have spent more than ten times as much resources on this as Norway in the last ten years. Geological mapping is a prerequisite for prospecting, industrial development and commodity safety. It is important that the State provides a good framework for this industry. Strong investment in infrastructure, particularly in the road sector, but also in ports, airports and railways is important. In addition – and not least – full deployment of broadband framework conditions is essential for further development. Strong public investment increases growth and value creation in the private sector, which in turn is a prerequisite for the maintenance and further development of welfare in the north. The economy depends on good public services to attract again skilled labour. The fight for the competent labour force is becoming important in the future. We have to educate young people into the continent and not out of it. New interesting jobs are being created in the north, and we also need to have the ability to look into the future and what skills we will need. The main task of the municipalities towards the business community will be spatial planning and establishment planning. At the same time, businesses place considerable emphasis on energy security and price before they choose to establish themselves. Although the energy sector has gained much and new muscles, marine industries and fisheries remain one of the main carriers in the north. The R & D sector needs to be strengthened, while at the same time managing resources in a sustainable way as a basis for future value creation in the fisheries industry. The goal of the NHO in North Norway is to establish at least ten new ore and mineral holdings in North Norway by 2013. It's not long. If we are to succeed, close interaction between all the parties involved is required. For the part of the country, it is about relinquishing old or new fights and getting together on the common goal: increasing growth and value creation, both regionally and globally. The Christian People's Party wants the rich resources we find in North Norway to be exploited in a sustainable way that benefits the continent. My challenge is therefore: what will the government do to ensure the overall, comprehensive and strategic approach to resource use in the north, which can contribute to a better investment climate and mitigate the level of conflict in terms of these nationally rich resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1021	Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity. In March this year, we read in the Business Survey of North Norway that businesses and households in the country are looking forward to the future. It's for good reason. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that exports are increasing and that Finnmark has the largest increase in exports of all counties. The region has been better off through the financial crisis than the rest of the country, and unemployment is now at the same level as the national average. These are good times in salmon farming. The construction industry is gaining ground, and it is investing in mining. New enterprises are emerging within, for example: travel life, marine biochemistry and space. Petroleum activities and wind power create new opportunities. The business community in North Norway has had a positive development, and the government is going to play a team. In the 2011 state budget, we propose to grant about 1.2 billion. kr for north-eastern action. Never before has any government made such a comprehensive, coordinated, comprehensive and offensive Northern Region strategy as this government. It is we who have invented the word 'north-area strategy'. The Northern Region Strategy presented on 1 December 2006 is leading the government’s work in the northernmost parts of the country. The strategy provides for a coordinated and long-term north-eastern policy, and in March 2009, the government presented the document ‘New building blocks in the north. The next step in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government’. The aim of the initiative is, inter alia, to: creating an innovation promise, growth and value creation. The strategy is inter alia: aimed at developing the mineral industry, focusing on marine bio-prospecting, travel, maritime and space-based activities. The government's Northern Territory work is the very opposite of a bit-by-bit policy. The interpellant mentions mineral extraction. Increased prices and demand for minerals worldwide are speeding up industry. Just a few years ago, there were few who could imagine that today there would be more than 330 jobs at the Southvaranger Gruve. We want more of these jobs. In the 2011 State Budget, the Government proposes a strong growth in the allocations for Norway’s geological survey to identify new drifting occurrences in North Norway. One hundred million. kr over four additional years is a doubling of the search effort. It shall be used in its entirety in North Norway. The new Mineral Act is an example of how the government has put in place a modern and forward-looking regulatory framework, where the whole is being taken in, and where consideration of the industry and the environment is being balanced, ensuring Sami interests by participating in the process and cleaning up after the search and activity has been completed. Travel is another of the government's areas of activity and an example of a coordinated and comprehensive effort to take advantage of our natural advantage in the north. The industry employs almost every 10 workers in northern Norway, more than agriculture and the fishing industry as a whole. Continued growth requires long-term and targeted cooperation on the development of attractive travel destinations and products. We have over the 2011 state budget earmarked 15 million. SEK for the marketing of North Norway as a destination, and 50 million has been allocated. kr for the establishment of the sub-national company NordNorsk Reiseliv in order to achieve greater coordination of marketing efforts in the part of the country. And in order to stimulate sustainable development, competence and profitability in the tourism industry, we will allocate a total of 27.5 million. kr to the project Travel Life in the North for the period 2009–2011. Marin bioprospecting is often referred to as the modern tax hunt, where it is about exploiting the properties of marine organisms. Norway manages large sea areas with more than 10,000 species that have not been surveyed. Such species may provide the basis for new and forward-looking business activities. That is why in 2009 the government presented the first national marine bio-prospecting strategy. In 2011, the government proposed $54 million. kr for marine bioprospection. Environments in Tromsø, among others, have already built up to become international actors in the industry. Norwegian space activities are also important. The government will facilitate space-based activities that take advantage of the advantages of being located in the north. The initiative contributes both to improving safety and the sustainable use of natural resources in marine areas and to industrial opportunities in the north. Kongsberg Satellite Services, which operate ground stations for satellites, inter alia: in Tromsø, is today the world’s leading operator of satellite oil lake monitoring. Andøya Rockett Shooter Field makes a significant contribution to the high-tech environment in North Norway. Moreover, this initiative has a significant potential for the development of new business areas and businesses. The sea areas outside North Norway constitute the largest future potential for petroleum extraction on Norwegian soil and a large part of the country’s wind power potential lies in North Norway. In my view, it means great opportunities for the development of Nordic business. The effort of the Harstad-based technology company Hydra Tidal to generate currents of tides and ocean currents is a good example of Nordic business seeing opportunities. The government has an overall approach to the exploitation of marine resources outside North Norway. We have presented management plans that clarify the overall framework for existing and new industrial activities. We facilitate a good coexistence between industries such as wind power, fish, travel and petroleum activities. The process and workshop industry in Helgeland is very important to the Nordic business community. The workshop industry is turning towards the offshore industry, and in Rana one of Norway’s largest shifts has resulted in many new businesses and jobs. The new State guarantee scheme for the purchase of power by industry under long-term conditions can trigger investments and secure jobs for power-intensive industry in the north, and the northern maritime route provides opportunities for industrial development. Here I am concerned – again – that we have a holistic and offensive approach. Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity. The government has a comprehensive and coordinated effort to trigger growth and sustainable value creation in the region. I will continue to place great emphasis on active dialogue with the Nordic business community, with Nordic politicians – with the Nordic community – on how we can contribute to the development of a forward-looking and profitable business life in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1059	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where the Council of State draws a positive picture of North Norway. I share the Council of State's optimism and hope for North Norway. All the plans submitted by the government for the region and the different economic areas are positive. But after the state council's posts, I'm left with a lot of questions, because the state council doesn't answer the question that I'm asking in the interview. Is it just joy and fun, then, in the north? Does not the Council of State listen to its own representatives, who are concerned about a bit-by-bit policy that creates great frustration? Is the investment climate as appropriate and is the level of conflict acceptable? I hope the Council of State in its final statement will come into some of these congested areas, which means that perhaps many of the plans of the Council of State and Government will be stranded, because here there is not a good negotiating climate between the different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1068	We always experience different balances and problems, such as: environment and industrial development or different types of industrial development or different social objectives are mutually opposed. But that is exactly the same in South Norway, in West Norway and in East Norway as in North Norway. This is not a specific Northern Norse problem. We have to get away from the presentation that there is always so much frustration in North Norway, that it is so difficult in North Norway and it is so worrying in North Norway. My experience after many trips to North Norway in various positions, including as Minister of Industry and Minister of Culture, is that it is not. There is great optimism in North Norway. It's counterproductive. That's vision. It's ambitious goals and an enthusiasm that this part of the country is becoming more and more central, not just in the Norway Map, but in the World Map. With large mineral resources, with large energy resources, with an enormous travel potential, with opportunities to open up the north-east passage part of the year, with great strategic importance and with great environmental significance, people in the north of Norway do not see as a fringe having problems, but as a center, not only in their own kingdom, but also in our kingdom. And yes, there are different special problems in North Norway, for example. the rights of the indigenous people must be tackled and handled. We have to work on that. But I don't recognize myself in this frustration picture. I recognize myself in an optimistic image, and if we can't create only joy and vulture – or joy in the vulture; we get to see that – then at least we're going to cheer in North Norway, I'm sure, because that joy is already very much present in the part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1075	I'm probably in danger of repeating the Council of State on a lot here, but a good thing can't be said too often, it's said. We from the north don't like the stick so often, nor am I surprised by the content of the various interferences from the opposition. But I have to admit, I was surprised at the content of this interpellation. I agree with the description of the interpellant Rigmor Andersen Eide giving of the possibilities that lie in North Norway: «North Norway is rich in natural resources and opportunities are great in both fish and farming, mineral extraction, oil and gas, Arctic agriculture and wind power.» But when the interpellant continues: ‘Unfortunately, a good overall and holistic approach to the exploitation of these rich resources is lacking’, I also wonder. No other government has put the northern areas on the map like this government – I repeat: no one else – not even when the inter-pellant party, the Christian People's Party, sat with the Prime Minister for several years. They weren't even close. The northern regions are the most important areas of activity of this government, and this has been the case since 2005, when we took over the management of this country. The Northern Region Strategy of the Government was presented in 2006, and the initiative was followed up with the next step, as the Council of State has talked about, ‘New building blocks in the north’, in 2009. Seven areas of activity were defined here, and concrete projects were highlighted to give direction to this work over the next 10–15 years. In fact, more than half of these measures have also been launched. In the 2011 government budget, which was also included in the Council of State budget, it is committed to spending a total of 1.2 billion. kr for north-eastern action. It's not small money, even here on the Stortinget. It is important that this government will also present a communication to the Stortinget on the northern regions in 2011. The government's 2011 draft budget represents a strengthening of many areas, and both the Council of State and the inter-pellant have been involved in a number of them – not least in terms of overall monitoring of the alert systems for the northern regions, development of mineral-based activities, which have been the subject of several, as said, marine bio-prospection, follow-up of environmental areas, weather radar in eastern Finland, new polar research programme in the Norwegian Research Council, knowledge development in the northern regions and Arctic. I want to frame all the measures that are within the area, but it would take a very long time. But I want to draw out one area, which I was also inside instead. It is the development of mineral-based industries, where it is actually proposed to set at 100 million. kr over four years for the identification of the deposits of industrial minerals and metals. This can be a really important bet, and it's very exciting to follow it. In addition, we focus on many important industrial areas in the north, and I would particularly like to stress that the fisheries management that we have now had is world-class and is being given great attention. It is therefore strange and incomprehensible that this interpellation shows that such a policy is produced as a bit-by-bit policy, which in turn leads to unnecessary and sharp lines of conflict in this area. In addition, it is noted that such policies contribute to the fact that companies and investors do not dare to invest in this exciting area because of uncertain legislation and potential conflicts. I would like to recall the historic border agreement signed with Russia a short time ago. Is this Northern Region initiative not an overall, comprehensive and strategic approach to exploiting resources in North Norway? I would like to challenge the interpellant Rigmor Andersen Eide: What bit-by-bit policy is this about, when this government's strategic north-area policy is not considered to be general and comprehensive? In that case, what strategic policy does the Christian People's Party have in this area, and how can the level of conflict with the Christian People's Party change its solution? And finally, what companies and industries are targeted at as investors because of uncertain legislation, not daring to invest in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1104	I'm not going to go into the internal struggle between the current government and former governments about who has had an overall strategy, who has been the best in the class, etc. I think I should leave that to the interpellant and representatives of the government parties to keep up. I will first refer to the second post of the Council of State, the three-minute post. I have to say I very much agree with that. I've been on several trips in the north for the last year. I was also so lucky to participate in NHO's Little thing in Alta this fall, a little thing that just focused on what's happening in the north. I just have to say that this is a part of the country and an area that really swells with progress and wants to create something new. Such a part of the country should be searched for a long time. Around Alta, new businesses and businesses constantly pop up. You have growth in the population. You can see the same thing in the oil and gas business. It's quite obvious that making North Norway poor has the wrong focus. The northern regions are the part of the country of opportunity in the years to come. Here, there are large mineral resources, which several have pointed out, and other natural resources. We have great marine resources with great opportunities. A number of the issues that the interpellant raises in the question are quite obvious. The sewerage industry has problems with the local population, with the conflicts we see there. There are conflicts that you have to find a solution to. If you can't get rid of that level of conflict, there's still a problem. In the case of mining and remediation, there is actually no other way to start olive continuum in the south or north, because it is the business that generates part of the problems. You don't always have to try to do what happens in the north into a problem, and that's okay if it happens in the south. That's the general framework of business we really need to bet on. I am totally opposed to making one's own policy – if that's what you want – to build a capital base for North Norway and have a different code in the south. Both the Progress Party and I believe that it is the general framework conditions for business that are important. If the fishing industry in the north gets proper, good framework conditions, it's as likely to succeed there as other places in the country. But what we're struggling with there is, of course, the cost picture in general in Norway relative to the rest of the world. In the north there are other great opportunities that you should already do something about, and it is linked to the farming industry. I think you've shown an attitude that has made it so far that you haven't developed it too fully, because it's actually being affected by what we call the problem of salmon. In Northern Norway, especially from the north of the Nordic countries, Troms and Finnmark, there are relatively small problems with salmonids due to sea temperature. At least in the part that is not plagued with the salmon problem, one should have the opportunity to increase its MTB – maximum authorised biomass – in the mermaids, because they should not be affected even if others have a problem. It's unfair. Then it is clear that many are impatient about new exploration areas in the oil and gas sector. It will be exciting to see when possible. Travel life in the north is going to be a huge success, I think. It's going to be an exciting kind of tourism that many people want to experience. But I also want to remind you of one thing about the Northern Region Strategy – who invented the concept is completely immaterial, one should not do a very large number of it – and that is that in this room there is a great deal of upsurge in the North Region bet. There is nothing that one party has adopted. Here it's actually a total mass that has said yes to that we have to use the possibilities. That is why my conclusion is as follows: Let those who live in the northern regions have the same general, good opportunities as others! This becomes the national part of the country – and not a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1127	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for taking up an important matter. I don't think anyone needs to be offended or offended that these questions are being addressed. It is possible that it is very important for the future history to have in place who invented the concept of north-eastern politics. If the facts matter, it was actually the Bondevik II government that presented the first forecast of the northern regions in April 2005, by then Foreign Minister Jan Petersen – just so that the facts should be in place. So there was no red-green invention as presented here. But that wasn't my main score today. The national part of the concept of possibilities – yes, it is the national part of possibilities – is a rather worn-out image, a worn-out expression. I don't think those who are left in North Norway can really settle down on the fact that evolution will come of itself. This is the part of the country whose territory is allowed to make use of the opportunities. That's what I feel the interpellant is inside and picking up today, because that's what's necessary. I don't think it's coloring Coast Norway, North Norway, so much to use today's occasion to celebrate today's government. Allow the country to make use of the opportunities that lie there and can contribute to increased investment, increased economic investment and increased development in the area by area within the concept of ‘national dimension of opportunities’. In fact, for the last 40 years, the population of Norway has increased by about 10 %. One and a half million. North Norway is at rest. Nordland and Finnmark have a decline, while Troms has a modest growth in its population of 8 000–9 000, mainly due to Tromsø’s development. I think that the tribute that Lillian Hansen gave today would hardly strike in her home municipality, the Moscows, which has a population drop of between 30 and 40 pst. during the same forty-year period. It's the development of Coast Norway. Therefore, the complex questions that, for example, go on energy have to be asked. Will today's government provide the country section with the opportunity to take advantage of these opportunities? Would you say yes or no and take a clear position on the impact assessment for the Nordic countries 6 and 7 and follow-up to the management plan? I guess we all know the answer. In the case of renewable energy, we have seen that, for example, the plans on wind power and hydropower have evolved into the purest protection plans. Looking back on the last five to six years, there is no lack of planning. There is no lack of good intentions and prospects. However, the implementation of new measures is unfortunately still under way. I'm not going to mention the protection of the Wefsna in today's debate, but it's also an illustration of sitting in Oslo and talking about the country's part of the possibilities, and then the country's division is missing out on the possibilities. Take Ramsund, the son around Wefsna, Helgeland and forest protection. One example is the woodworking company Arbor in Hattfjelldal. It is located in the middle of the forest, but because it is located in the middle of the forest, and because of protection, this company no longer manages to pick up work locally, as desired. If this part of the country is allowed to use what is possible in energy – oil, gas, hydropower, renewable energy and, at an affordable rate, now the mineral development plan – population development will come. Tomorrow's boys and girls will have the same opportunities in Northern Norway as in the Central East and Western countries, where the opportunities have been put into practice. Finally, I will present a simple challenge to the Council of States: Is there any possibility within Europe's largest farming region to grant, for example, North America two-three new farming concessions? I have a concrete case on the table. A yes will provide a significant investment and 20–50 new jobs. We're about to get a yes from the Council of State Giske?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1147	I was a little uncertain about whether I, who came from the other end of the country, would take the floor in this matter. I became even more uncertain when I discovered that I was in complete agreement with the Progress Party for once. What was my starting point was exactly what the Progress Party representative took up. I feel that over a few years, the north has been focused and driven by a drive that means that we who live on the other side of the country may become a little envious sometimes – not because we don't have resources and many possibilities, but actually because of the focus that has been on getting something to happen north, and because of the way the northern regions themselves have taken on that challenge and cooperated with the ruling powers – whether it's one government or another – to get something to happen. There is a preview that many people should follow. Therefore, I have not intended to go into all the matters that are done, because it has been quite much talked about by both the minister and the previous speakers, but I want to take a few points in the interpellant's input. Bit-by-bit right to me negatively – except when you watch it on TV on Friday night. But a bit by bit you can turn it around. One might say that all offensive planes must take a step ahead of the long-term targets. It's about having visions and having superior targets that are presented in different plans, and then you have to take different rounds to make the action happen. I did not believe that the interpellant's party was so centralized that everything would be in one package, and then finished it. Some steps must be taken along the way to reach the goal. So there's one thing I'm wondering about. The interpellant has two angles on the same problem. It seems she wants more protection, and it seems she sees the protection as a problem. The interpellant represents a game that often criticises, among other things. SV for not being offensive enough when it comes to ensuring the protection of different natural resources, but at the same time I perceive that she is now making the protection as the big problem. So what it might have been interesting to get answers to in the final row is: is there too much or too little protection that is the problem in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1156	The interpellant takes up bets on the north as an important theme, but I am, like several others, amazed at the entrance of Rigmor Andersen Eide in the matter. I do not recognize myself in the presentation that the representative gives of the conditions in the north. Enough about that. On the other hand, I would like to begin by thanking the Council of State for the answer he gave, and not least for the comments on optimism and faith in the future in the north that the Council of State made. I'll do that in full. It's incredibly important that we also raise that perspective when we're going to move on and find good solutions for bets in the future. On the part of the Centre Party, we are working both actively to assert our strategic interests in the north and to facilitate a stronger development in North Norway. We are therefore in favour of a stronger focus on contributing to economic development on land, and that this is underlined in Soria Moria II and in ‘New building blocks in the north’. I also want to pay tribute to the government for its positive progress in a number of areas and have focused on increased contact with our neighbouring countries in the north. The signing of the part-line agreement with Russia is an important milestone in Norwegian history and will be an essential basis for further development in the region. The Nordic regions are the country's most important strategic area, and this is clearly reflected in the long-term communication to the Defence Department, where this government has shown great willingness to move important institutions in the Defence Northwards. When we are to assert our rights to areas in the north, settlement and development on land in Northern Norway is absolutely crucial for us in the Central Party. Access to natural resources is an important basis for industrial development. In particular, I would like to highlight the concerns about the ring effects of the petroleum industry in the north, mining, tourism and aquaculture. The centre batch is concerned with ensuring ring effects in the north as a result of the petroleum industry, and this area must be further worked on in the new petroleum message that is currently being prepared. It is important here that oil companies be required to set up decision-making and purchasing functions in the north, contract regime requirements, while at the same time facilitating the development of the supply industry and the promotion of competence. We see that more and more young people in the north want to invest in this area, and here it is essential to facilitate educational courses that give young people this opportunity. Another area that we in the Center Party are occupied with is mining. It is therefore gratifying that in the context of the 2011 State budget, the government has provided significant funds for the monitoring of such deposits in the north. From our point of view, it is important and necessary that the government also submit its own big message in this area. As an example of positive features, I would like to point out that the operation at the South Bank of Gruve will provide great opportunities for Kirkenes and Finnmark. From many quarters it is stressed that this could be a new industrial venture in an area of rich industrial history. Furthermore, in the North Calotene there is now a planning of the extraction of large quantities of iron ore in northern Finland and Sweden, and it is important that we from Norway also take advantage of the opportunities that can lie in our areas, and pay great attention. Travel life is one of the great industries of the future in the north – promised by this government. In the autumn of 2007, the former municipal minister, Åslaug Haga, and the travelling life and the northern part of the country challenged the coordinated marketing of North Norway as a destination. On 1 January 2010, the new Nordic travel company was in place, and the government has committed 50 million. SEK to this company for the profiling of North Norway abroad, a stake that has also been followed up this year, and will be until next year. Furthermore, the challenge is to get more foreign tourists to the national section, in order to increase the volume of tourism traffic. To achieve this, we need to get more direct flights or charter flights from abroad to North Norway. Here, the county is working on establishing air route funds, which are absolutely necessary to establish such routes, and I hope that the county councils in the north will set up in this context. The settlement in the north is largely based on the proximity to the sea and to rich fishing grounds. In recent years, aquaculture has also become a major factor in the development of the north. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to stress that this industry has a high potential for increased value creation in the region. Here, access to land and natural resources make it important to raise this industry to the future North. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the possibilities for development in the establishment of a northern maritime route to China. This can become a reality as a result of the melting of ice and the establishment of new transport corridors. The Industry Committee was recently on its way to China and Singapore, and this theme was raised there. We also visited Singapore, which is a hub for China and Southeast Asia. This shows what opportunities we have for the northern regions in the future. We can set up a new Singapore in the north if we also focus on further development in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1186	I'm a Northern Territory resident. 71 degrees north passes through the island I live on in Finnmark. It's far north, but it's in the middle of the government that Stoltenberg has defined as the government's main strategic area. Interpellant's reference to the fact that the government's north-area policy creates unnecessary conflicts and is a bit-by-bit policy is an intrusive angle in which I, as a northerner, do not recognise myself. Once again, we are exposed to someone from outside North Norway describing our reality and telling us how we feel. When Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre had his famous North District Hall in Tromsø on 10 November 2005, the people of Northern Norway felt that we were seen, that our huge natural resources were valued, and that we as a population and as an area were important to the nation. Since that visit, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has visited North Norway a great deal. We, who had hardly seen a foreign minister before, were almost spared with visits. As a finnmarking, I have felt that the government's Northern Region Strategy has helped raise the Nordic population and help us not to feel that we are as far away from power as it has been known before. The Nordgebietsbet has contributed to a renewed and strengthened Nordic identity. ‘New building blocks in the north’ – the government’s follow-up to the first Northern Region Strategy – is just a contradiction to the fact that it is not a bit-by-bit policy but a long-term and systematic work. This is not an action programme for any years, but it indicates a direction in which development is to take place, it identifies opportunities and gives hope for the future. But most of all, the government of Stoltenberg's Northern Region Policy is historic, as proved by the signing of the agreement on the sharing line between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea in Murmansk on 15 September 2010. To reach agreement on this vast sea area that we have been negotiating for over 40 years is a good world-class political craft. In addition, we have a sea area of 88 000 km2 and the whole sea area shared by Norway and Russia has a size equivalent to Denmark, Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands. All of this area has been allocated without having been released as much as a shot between the parties. The area is not as conflict-filled as interpellant Andersen Eide seems to fear. The dividing line gives us opportunities in oil and gas and that the areas contain large fish fields. Another part of a successful North Sea policy is that Norway and Russia manage their large common fish stocks very well and that their populations are growing. We have been given control of the UUU fishing, the illegal, unregistered and uncontrolled fishing which was a threat to the stock, which was exempt from tax and which pushed the price of legally caught fish. This work is applauded by everyone in the fishing industry and is invaluable for further strengthening the Norwegian fishing industry. North Norway is rich in natural resources. In addition to fish, there are oil and gas activities, tourism, arctic agriculture, sanitation and mineral extraction. It is possible that Andersen Eide's concern for the conflicts in the north is linked to the discussion of reindeer management and mineral extraction. The Storting adopted a new mineral law in spring 2009. It provides clarification and predictability of the mineral industry. It uses large parts of Finnland's area as a grazing area. It is natural that reindeer management takes into account their needs and that all industries should be taken into account. That's the way it is in all business. There will be significant mineral extraction in Finnmark. In South Varanger there is full activity in the mines, and there are concrete plans for an area in the municipality of Kvalsund. It will give hurt long-term jobs, and it is positively received in Finnmark. We shall never conceal that industrial and industrial development will lead to interference in nature. The goal must be to minimise it as much as possible. In the Workers' Party, we have the proud slogan «cup and parts». We're going to help create values in North Norway and make sure that it gives jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1205	I would then like to thank you for an interesting debate. There was quite a good temperature in the hall. I think it has been an engaging debate to participate in. I've got a lot of recordings. Of course, some of the recordings I've got to think about. But to make it quite clear: when I took up this debate, it wasn't to make the part of the country poor, or that we in the south, or I as a midwife, should be in charge of anything. The reason was to make the opportunities in the country visible and to point to the challenges that lie there in order to realise these opportunities. And then there's something more to it than just praising the government's excellence, it has to be possible to make some critical remarks about how others view development. I wonder if the Labour Party politician Ronny Wilhelmsen, if he had heard this debate, would have been reassured. It would be interesting to hear his words after what has been said. Ingenill Olsen brought this up with the fact that I might have been concerned about the conflict between the reindeer industry and the mineral extraction. In March, Ingenill Olsen himself raised questions about reindeer farming and agriculture, especially farmers in the Alta region. The answer to State Council Breck was that he could agree that the conflict in Alta also had to be assessed in a larger perspective. And that's essentially what I'm asking for. When different interests meet, the different perspectives have to be addressed, and then we need a holistic thinking, so that we don't become as sector-oriented as we can often be. But I thank you for the debate. I think it has been an exciting debate to take part in, so thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1216	I would also like to thank, as the inter-pellant, for a good debate. I think we can take with us that the optimism and the momentum reflected by the Nordic big business representatives is quite representative of the country as well. But I'm also choosing to take the interpellant in the best sense, that it's to raise the opportunities of North Norway that we were given the opportunity to take such an interpellant debate. The interpellant is from a group with proud traditions of entrepreneurship, business start-ups and business start-ups, a tradition and a march towards which we are further north, whether it is in Trøndelag or in North Norway, certainly has a lot to learn from. But with the possibilities that the natural resources along the coast of the north, and to the extent that the inlands of the north, give, I think we will definitely succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1223	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-22.ana.ud1414e1236	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. Then the President will wish all the representatives a good weekend. - The meeting's been cancelled.
