ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e26	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e29	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Hämdal, Hans Olav Syversen and I signed a proposal for a better framework for companies engaged in re-use and repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e34	The representative, Mr Träldal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e37	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roald Bredvold, to promote a proposal for a representative to terminate the main agreement on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e42	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e45	I would like to put forward two representative proposals, first on behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Tåldal, Per Roar Bredvold, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and signed to repeal the regulation on national policy provisions for purchasing centres. Then I would like to propose a representative proposal from the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Bård Hoksrud and myself to remove airport charges in connection with the volcanic eruption in Iceland. I ask that this proposal be dealt with in accordance with Section 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure on urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e74	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e83	We have been able to read in various media that the Prime Minister has been whistling across Europe by car. I hope that, in addition to twittering, he had time to look up and take in the magnificent road standard that very many of our neighbouring countries have, and that the Prime Minister might also have a lack of conscience when he saw this road standard and perhaps tried to compare it with the Norwegian one, which he probably noticed when he crossed the border into Norway. While the Prime Minister was out driving in Europe, I spent time around Norway. I've driven uphill. 7 in Hallingdal, and I've been driving around on roads and ferries in the moors and the valley of Rome. I've been talking to the users of these services and listening to the ever-increasing frustration many of them have. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to what extent he is satisfied with what the Government has done and plans to do, in terms of Norwegian infrastructure construction, both in the five years of the government, and in the years that they are likely to have ahead of them. But instead of getting the customary boast response we're familiar with, namely that the government is so violent in the NTP, that they're usually a lot better than previous governments, I'd rather ask the Prime Minister: is he satisfied with what the government calls an offensive bet, which basically boils down to the following: construction of 12 km of highway in 2010 and construction of 9 km of middle parts? That's what the government calls a violent bet. So 12 kilometers is a smaller distance than Sandvika.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e90	I can confirm that I have been driving a car through Europe for several days. It was – what to say – an experience. I can also confirm that I used the time to tweet, as well as to communicate with my friends on Facebook. I would like to thank everyone for their responses, feedback and compassion through the trip. I'm going to keep going, because I like to get care and attention. In addition, I've lifted my eyes several times during the trip and looked at the roads, and what I've seen in Europe then, is varying road standards – somewhere very good, somewhere pretty bad, somewhere pretty wide, nice roads, somewhere else highways, but in some places also actually quite worn-down motorways, with lots of bumps, and – what do we say – varying standard. I followed closely when I crossed the border with Norway, because there were several of the tweeters who said that now you have to follow – and I followed along. Well, the last kilometers in Sweden was a bad road, and then we came to Norway, and there was a wide four-field new highway. I registered it, sent out a message, and got varying reactions to that message! [[Laughter]] But that's the truth, and the truth is that we've invested heavily in motorways, especially in the east. We now have more motorway than ever. Over the last four-year period, we've opened 168 kilometers by four-field road, and that means it's now becoming a four-field highway from Svinesund down to Larvik, we're starting to build into Telemark and we're opening down towards Kristiansand, and we're headed towards Hamar. We're not satisfied with that, but we're proud of the effort, and we've presented a plan that means significantly increased road effort. I understand that the representative Jensen does not like to hear that we are spending more money on the road now than ever, because under the previous government, supported by Jensen, much less was spent on the road than we are doing today. I'm proud of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e97	I note that the Prime Minister has a slightly different perception of reality than those who are constantly travelling on Norwegian roads, and I think it is especially that he thinks that a bet of 12 kilometres of motorway construction in 2010 is good. But I want to challenge a little bit further, because the consequences of the ash clouds from Iceland we now see in their full moon. That means that very much of the transport work is shifted over on the road, on the railway, and what we discover, in addition to the general frustration that we have in everyday life, is, of course, how vulnerable we are in these kinds of situations. We see that our preparedness is fragile, reasonably inadequate, and that shows that we haven't really invested enough, so that we also get much bigger problems in vulnerable periods because we have to move around on the preparedness we already have. It is a serious issue, which I would like the Prime Minister to say something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e102	I agree that the ash cloud shows that we are a vulnerable society, but they also show that we are capable of mobilising, and it is strongly mobilised within the healthcare community, so that we have strengthened preparedness where it has been most vulnerable. It is strongly mobilised within other transport companies – bus companies, NSB – and I want to praise all those who have done a great job there. Then, of course, we can learn from this crisis and certainly develop new and better preparedness in the future. But I'll get back to the road. I stress that I am not satisfied with the road standard in Norway. That's exactly why we're going to spend 322 billion kroner in the next ten years to renovate the road and track in Norway – more than ever. If we were satisfied, we wouldn't have had to spend NOK 322 billion. It's precisely because we're not satisfied, that we're going to spend so much money on the way. And so it's like we've opened up a lot of motorways in recent years. It's not always the best goal of whether the government has made a formidable effort. First of all, we need maintenance, second, we need tribal roads elsewhere than where we make motorways, and thirdly, opening up motorways is often a result of previous decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e109	There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e112	First of all, what the Prime Minister says is not right, for 322 billion dollars is all about infrastructure, not just the road and the track. I think it's a little bad that the Prime Minister didn't continue to drive a little further up in Norway, so he got to see how the everyday life of Norwegian professional drivers and all those on the road is actually. It is probably true that when you drive into Norway, some of the road sections have improved, but further into Norway it is extremely poor. Nor is it the government that is going to take responsibility and credit for having a lot of people gone – it is despite all the drivers who have largely paid everything in the form of extra taxes and taxes, and not least in the form of tolls. Road Director Terje Moe Gustavsen said at a conference in January that even with the increased appropriations, the downturn will continue on the Norwegian road network, despite what the Government provides in the national transport plan. So the prime minister says there's a lot of investment in highway development. We're going to build 240 kilometers over the next ten years. Poland has built 440 kilometers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e119	I would like to repeat what I said instead. Road standards in Europe vary. It is also in Norway. There's a lot of good new road in many places, and then it's very bad, old road elsewhere in Norway. Just because we are not satisfied with the road standard in Norway, we are going to spend a lot of money on the road in the years to come, and significantly more than the government supported by the Progress Party in the 2001–2005 Great Britain. So you get more money with governments The Progress Party does not support it than with governments The Advance Party supports it, and it should be a crossroads for the electorate of the Advance Party. When it comes to road development, it's true that the number 322 billion is for road, rail and port, and I'm proud of all three areas, because we're betting on them all. We need a combined transport effort here in the country. I was specifically asked to tell about my impression when I crossed the line, and then I pointed out that when we crossed the line, we went from a poor road standard to a good road standard in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e126	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e130	The right has proposed the use of new tools to build roads and railways more quickly – Public Private Financing Cooperation. The Minister of Transport said yes, the Minister of Finance said no, but he was basically positive when he was in charge. What does the Prime Minister want?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e135	The Prime Minister wants what is in the national transport plan, and that is that we should give more money to road and rail. Then we don't have to finance projects, because there won't be anything cheaper about borrowing projects, but it'll just be a lot easier to finance projects. The Norwegian State's problem is that we do not have a lack of cash. There are two challenges we have, one is pressure in the economy in the periods we have, and the other is long-term funding of popular welfare/pension. None of the problems are solved by financing loans for road projects. The important thing is that we donate significantly more money to the road now than before, and that makes it better and more roads. We're not satisfied, we're not in the goal, but the direction is a completely different one. In addition, I believe that every time a right-wing representative says something about the road, you have to start by saying I'm sorry that you have used so little in the way of the years you put yourself in government. Because it's a little strange to hear this intense interest in spending money on the road, after you've been in government for many years and neglected the way and the way to those degrees. Then it's okay to get into opposition and suddenly have a lot of money for things you didn't have when you were in position – but you might start to be a little humble.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e142	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e145	Infrastructure is about more than road and rail. The recent report, State of the Nation, presented on Construction Days, shows that the reduction in the maintenance of public buildings and infrastructure is over 800 billion kroner. Functionality is threatened. Much of the reason for this is that the government has gradually reduced the appropriations for church activities in the municipalities over four years, which include: has gone beyond securing the country's church buildings. Schools fall due, the indoor climate in many classrooms is miserable, and there are still many swimming pools that lack water. Put on the tip: The land rots on the root. It's a paradox that in the richest country in the world, we've set ourselves so that we can't take care of the values we have, and that we can't make it over again to meet the needs of society. I hope the Prime Minister will respond to what is being done within a short time and a long time to re-enter this lag. And will we have a review of the lack of maintenance in the future municipality proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e154	When we describe the conditions in Norway, and the conditions of Norwegian infrastructure and building mass, I think it is very important that we try to be precise and nuanced. It is not that it glimmers in all Norwegian infrastructure projects – on the contrary, many of them are worn out and in poor condition, and many buildings are in poor condition. But to say that Norway ‘ rots on the rot’, I think I’m going a little too far the other way. In fact, there are many buildings, many buildings in Norway, which are in good condition, where there is a lot of investment, but then there are a lot of people who are in bad condition, and who are not in good enough condition. That's why this government has thought it's much more important that we spend billions of dollars on, for example. loan scheme for school buildings, on a lot more money for municipalities so that they can renovate their buildings, instead of spending billions of dollars on tax havens. And that's also why there's become much more money for public investment in the way, in the way, in school, in municipal construction, in church buildings, with its own lending arrangement, than it was under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e161	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e164	Just before Easter, there was an eye-catching statement by Kristin Halvorsen in the class struggle. Then she said, ‘It is my opinion that there is not a right-wing wave going on, but that the red-green project lacks booze and does not show a clear direction.’ It's an in-and-out eye-catching insight into the Government's inner life. It is also alarming when the Government has recently had a reorganization in which 13 out of 20 government councils are either new or have new responsibilities. Such things usually lead to more booze, more joy over new things, more joy over being able to grasp. But perhaps the truth is that the old saying that when the crib is empty, the horses bitten, is especially important for the red-green project. For the red-green project, the Prime Minister’s previous response, namely that it is only about spending more money – not on solving more tasks, but on spending more money. The mantra ‘more money’ is more difficult to use at a time when Norwegian economy requires less money use, but smarter solutions. This government chooses the opposite of pushing important issues ahead of it. Now we also see that one of the few reforms that this government has introduced, the Reform of Cooperation, can today well be characterised as the ‘Lam Action Reform’, because the internal disagreement in the Red-Green Government has now led to its cessation, and the municipalities do not know what to do with it. Torpedoing the new initiatives, inter alia: by the Prime Minister himself, e.g. how to finance roads in a new and better way. My question to the Prime Minister is, how does it feel to lead a government that not only Kristin Halvorsen believes lacks booze, but that almost everyone else sees lack of booze?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e180	It feels great. It actually feels so good that I spent a lot of time last year winning a choice. I am still happy about that, and I intend to manage that trust for four years. It is up to the voters to decide who will govern this country. We have a clear project and a clear direction. Let me remind you of a couple of the most important. This government's task is to provide work and value creation. We have managed Norway safely through the financial crisis. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We have lower unemployment now, with the financial crisis, than we had with the previous government without the financial crisis. It is a major and important project: it is about value creation, integration, equality and social justice when we keep high employment and low unemployment. The second major project we have is to improve, renew and strengthen the world's best welfare society. It's not a little project. We're still very proud of what we've achieved, but it's a lot undone and a lot unfinished. Among other things, we need to: improve care for the elderly. We set ourselves the goal in the previous period of full child care coverage. We reached that goal. Now we set ourselves as a goal of full health care coverage, an offer of care or nursing home to everyone who needs it. It is a new, great reform. This government is running. The third is that we have to be leading the environment. So there are big projects and big tasks this government is working on. What I am pleased about the cooperation reform is that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the direction and the idea. Then the opposition parties have, as usual, come up with very many additional cost-intensive proposals. It is a good thing that you have a lot of money in the opposition that you never have in the position. We will follow up on the Interaction Reform, both with new ways of financing, such as municipal co-financing, more emphasis on prevention and more outsourcing of ready-to-write patients from hospitals as examples. Fortunately, the cooperation reform has gained broad support. The opposition parties have a lot of extra money. We need to implement the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e193	It may have to be a cross of thought for the Prime Minister when he reads today's Newspaper leader – it's from his closest one often gets it. It says: ‘From the outside, the government seems to have punctured. It's standing still.' I believe that is a good characteristic of what we see by this government after the election. The openness of the campaign has disappeared. There is a total lack of new solutions, and you go back to the mantra ‘more money’. The Prime Minister is, among other things, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. appointed as the perfectly clear and clear brake block to enable us to build more infrastructure faster, using new methods. The previous Minister of Transport and also the current one has repeatedly gone out and wanted Public Private Cooperation, because it is not just a good method of financing – it is a good method of construction. The Minister of Finance, when he was a county councillor, was active in finding other funding solutions. It is interesting to look for the location of the brake block. I would like to know if the Prime Minister can confirm that he is now the brake block for more road construction and better railway investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e207	If I'm a brake pad, I wonder what Erna Solberg was when she was in government. Because we spend a lot more money on the way than what was done when Solberg's representative was in government. So I don't quite know what kind of imagination you're going to have, but it's at least so that if she means what I'm doing, what she did is an absolute scandal over Norwegian roads and investment in Norwegian infrastructure. It is therefore true that this government with me as Prime Minister has been a driving force for the upliftment of times – much more than the Right dream – in terms of road investment. There won't be any more money to borrow money. The only thing that's going to be is higher interest costs. And for a state that has enough cash – or enough cash – it's a strange exercise to borrow money to finance something that we can fund with our own money. What we need are increased appropriations over several years, and those appropriations I have been a driver for. 100 billion extra to travel, it's more than the Right has ventured to dream of, even in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e214	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e218	I understand that the Prime Minister feels well, especially if he comes home over Svinesund. But there are also some other roads in the country, which the Prime Minister might want to pay some attention to. It must feel a little strange when even the Daily Newspaper, the Labour Party's own body here in Oslo, begins to wonder if the Prime Minister feels well. One wonders whether the prime minister actually wants a top job abroad, or is plagued by illness and wants to get away from work. Feeling well is well and good, but if you can't convince others about it, you have a problem. And so this government is in a state of coercion, because in a number of areas, it's now possible to have a large majority against the parties that are in government. Had the majority been advised in the Storting, we would have had another outcome in the biodiesel case, we would have had another outcome in the OPS case, which the Prime Minister now strongly argues against, among other things. because the centre party is for, and the rest of the Storting is for, but because they're in government, they're forced to oppose. The same can also be said about the government’s resistance to tax-stimulated share purchases. How does it feel to rule by coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e227	A few–three things: first of all, there is a widespread trick among others. Right-wing representatives to claim that I have said something I have not said. I have not claimed that roads in Norway are generally of good standard – on the contrary, I have underlined that there are many roads that are clearly worse than the way I drove from Svinesund to Oslo last Saturday. But I was asked how I experienced crossing the border, and that was a good experience – and I'm glad. This was point 1. The second point is that the daily newspaper is no longer the body of the Workers' Party. I am among those who miss the Worker's magazine, and who think it was a pleasure when the Worker's editor sat in the central government and we could look hard on him, and that was the order of the leaders. [[Laughter]] Now it slips out, and it does not mean that everything that is in the leaders of the Newspaper comes from the internal partners of the Workers' Party. It happens that there are things that are unexplained and that at least I disagree with. Now I haven't read today's leader – it's also an expression of maturity – but I certainly disagree with what it says. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e234	It is clear that the Prime Minister is trying to fool himself away from the seriousness. I agree with Erna Solberg that there is not much booze and speed in the government. We have also seen in this Questionnaire that the Prime Minister has begun to be very approximate to the facts. He made it clear that it was important to be precise, when he snuffed out that the government spent 320 billion kroner on transportation. So that's not right. It is the total amount that goes to operate directorates, for the purchase of services, for rubble and stubble in this sector. If you look at the precise, ice-cold facts, the government spends SEK 5.1 billion on highway investment – in addition to collecting about DKK 7 billion from the drivers in toll financing. It's quite different numbers than the 320 billion kroner that the Prime Minister tried to create the impression that the government used to speed up infrastructure construction in Norway. And that's what I asked you -- not what you used on the directorates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e241	The President would point out that ‘snatching itself’ is not a good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e244	That's well said for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e249	We're now operating with a lot of different numbers. Firstly, 322 billion kroner is the total national transport plan framework over ten years, and it is clear that if you break down every year, it is a significantly smaller figure – about 1/10>. That's to understand. Point 2 is about the railway, the traffic controller – i.e. ports – and the road. And point 3: With regard to roads, it is therefore both investment in highways – other national roads – and, of course, operation and maintenance. Road operation and maintenance are also important. All of these numbers have increased, whether we look at investments, on operations and maintenance, on annual expenses, or we see it over ten years. The crucial thing is that no matter how we present the figures, and no matter what we look at: operation, maintenance, investment, one year or ten years, there has been a sharp increase in road construction precisely because we are not satisfied with the road standard in Norway. Therefore, the appropriations for upgrading roads in Norway are increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e256	It is not only Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is, he is also a social economist – and among the best in the country, I have listened. And he can prove it no. I am thinking about the Sandvika-Lysaker project, which has been expanded as a double track in the last few years. It's built in eleven years, and the railroad company says that had we built it out in five years, we would have saved the Norwegian community for $2 billion. Because this isn't just about permissions, it's about how we use the money. It was not just the opposition who said that we need more money for the railways, that is what SV said yesterday, Mr Solhell, the parliamentary leader, spoke about it in this Chamber yesterday. And my question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister take the initiative in a wide-ranging settlement with regard to the railways that go both on the promises and in how we use the money in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e263	I believe that what the representative Hareide is now addressing is a very important question, because it is that when we are preparing the road and the track – transport – in Norway, we have to do two things: we need more money, and it has come in the national transport plan, among other things. by providing more money now in the 2010 budget. But the second thing that the representative said is that we have to spend the money better. And then it's to complete projects, to implement projects in a good way and not in a clattery and divided way, but to have large, whole projects, a key. That's what we're adding when it comes to double tracks for Ski. We're adding on some road projects that we're going to get big, whole projects, so we don't have to rig down and rig up plant equipment and other things. I would like to have a dialogue with the Stortinget and others on how we can further improve the implementation of the projects in a good and effective way, because there are too many examples of clumsy use of money in previous road projects under different governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e270	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e273	Prime Minister Stoltenberg is the prime minister in Norway's history who has had the most money to spend, the most money to spend, the greatest opportunity to invest in the future. In this country, at this great moment, governments have been seen in the past as when we were Europe's poorest country, prioritising knowledge, which used an entire state budget to build the Bergensbanen, and which introduced popular peace when we were a very poor and pressured people economically. Today's prime minister appears to be the most conservative prime minister we've ever had, who basically believes that things are just super like they are right now. We in the Left believe that the major challenge we are facing today is, above all, an environmental challenge, which the Government is facing with the postponement of all major issues: nine out of ten wind turbines are being iced, the largest number of concessions in Norway's history were presented, and all the important big things are being paused. Why are you so conservative when you have so many opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e280	First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative Skei Grande on his position as head of the Left. It is an important position in a traditional party that has worked well with social democracy for many years. Even I believe that there is a party team in Oslo that was originally a left-wing team, and it says something about the historical ties between our two parties. So the tone right now is not so good, we're going to try to do something about it, but the crucial thing is that this government does a lot with the things we don't think work. So there's a lot in Norwegian society that doesn't work well enough. That's why I stress that one of our major projects is to improve and renew one of the world's best welfare societies. We thought it was a big problem that many children did not have kindergarten. Then we made sure we had full babysitting. We thought it was a big problem that there was too little investment in the road/railway. We have doubled investment and increased strong investment in the way. We believe that it should be applied more to research and higher education. We have increased the appropriations for research and education. So it's a lot of mess, and that's why we want to continue taking responsibility for the governance of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e288	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e291	I have noticed that the Prime Minister in virtually every single answer so far in this questioning has referred to the previous government. Now I'm going to ask a question where the Prime Minister can drop it, because this is a topic he can take full responsibility for. These are the non-governmental organisations and non-profit institutions in Norway, where the perception is unique so that conditions have become more difficult under the red-green regime. Ideal institutions and voluntary efforts are perceived as undesirable. Voluntary organisations find that the state power is increasingly used to control the content of their activities, and HSH, the main trade and services organisation, which is not exactly a party team in the Christian People's Party, has said that they are seriously concerned that the ideal actors in the health, care and child protection field have disappeared in the course of five to ten years with the policy currently pursued. The Christian People's Party wants the voluntary and non-profit organisations in the health, social and care sectors to really be released and to make a social effort. And then the opposite happens over and over again. I have raised this question with the Prime Minister before, to get an exemption from the volunteering of the public tender schemes. The Prime Minister, in a positive order, has mentioned the excellence of volunteering, but in practice this happens again and again – and now it has happened again: Now Buffetat, under the Government, has signed a four-year contract with Solstrand Children's Protection Centre in Karmøy, where I was for some time back. One year within that contractual period, they cancel the contract, and that means that a non-profit institution with a solid professional environment, a good reputation and nearly 90 years of operation must give up the offer to some of our most vulnerable children. Had it been the case that there were child protection measures and foster homes ready to take over, it would have been okay, but it does not. There are 700 children in line for foster homes in Norway, and the possibility of using such a great offer as Solstrand is said to be. Is the Prime Minister proud of developments in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e302	I believe that it is very important that we have non-governmental organisations as part of welfare production in Norway, and that they contribute important things, both what they do voluntarily, and what the public – municipalities/state – pays for. We have many good examples of this. As far as child protection is concerned, there has been a broad consensus that we want to focus more on foster homes. We have always been busy doing what is best for the child, and therefore we have wanted to turn the service offer away from institutions and into foster homes. It certainly means that some of the institutions we have today have had less to do, but some of the reasons for this have, of course, been the concern of the child and the increased use of foster homes. The second is that we have to follow the law on public acquisitions, have to follow the EEA agreement. That means that we have to evaluate the different offers that are coming, and some of the offers that have been cancelled have been cancelled in terms of quality. I do not know the specific example that the representative named Højbråten mentions, but that it is that you exchange different suppliers by choosing one over another for reasons such as: quality, or increasing the use of foster homes and thereby reducing the use of institutions, may create challenges for some of the suppliers, I understand, but the crucial thing is always what is best for the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e313	If it had been the way the Prime Minister says, that it is crucial what is best for the children, it is strange to conclude a preparedness offer in a region where it is per. Today, 59 children are in line for the foster home places referred to by the Prime Minister as an alternative. It can't be best for the kids to lose what they have when it's queue within the alternative offers. When the Prime Minister refers to non-governmental organisations as ‘suppliers’, I think it illustrates the problem in many ways. This government understands very poorly that volunteering and non-profit activities actually have a self-esteem that mobilizes people, who mobilize spirit of virtue, who deliver quality. If it hadn't been quality in these places at Solstrand, then why have they had 100 pst. occupations in recent years, since 2004? I ask the Government to re-enter this. The EEA Agreement provides for the possibility of exempting volunteering from tenders. The government is not using that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e322	I can only stress that this government wants to volunteer, to stimulate volunteering and to support non-governmental organisations. There are many different types of voluntary organisations that are doing very different things, but we are now introducing a VAT compensation scheme which means a strong stepping-up of financial support and an improvement in the framework conditions of voluntary organisations in general. What we're doing now in terms of VAT, which represents hundreds of millions of dollars, is an expression that this government is supporting the volunteer. So it's not like we've stepped down the stakes in child protection. Overall, there is an increased effort in child protection when we look at the state and the municipality. So there has been no reduction in the state. But there have been changes in composition, and it's due to different conditions in different places. But there's no less effort. If there's less to do in one institution, it's more to do elsewhere, because overall, we've maintained the state effort and increased it in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e329	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e332	The Prime Minister will be given a new chance to demonstrate in concrete terms what he thinks of his well-defined, positive attitude towards non-governmental organisations. The Prime Minister, in a previous reply, showed that we have now finally received almost full child-care coverage, and said that ‘we set ourselves the goal of full health care coverage’. But despite the fact that the Prime Minister refers to the upswing of material infrastructure, the Government has not yet responded to whether and when we are going to have full child protection coverage. The situation today is that children live in insecurity, with care failure, with drug-using parents, with temporary solutions because we do not have enough foster homes. At the same time, the Salvation Army and other non-profits and knocking on the door of the State Children's Protection say: We can get more foster homes, we can get the foster homes that these children need. The answer from state child protection is negative: we do not want the help of private non-profit organisations. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to wind up this senseless riddle of principles and to give the children the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e341	We are to strengthen child protection. And then we believe that we need both public institutions – public services – and private organisations that can contribute to child protection, and then we need foster homes. So we believe that there will be an assessment locally, not least in the municipalities, of what is the best offer and how they want to organize it. We also believe that it has been right to shift the protection of state children towards increased use of foster homes, thereby reducing the emphasis on institutions. Also in this area I believe that there is a lot of work done. We need more money and more effort in child protection. The main government in the 2010 budget was to increase the free income with the result that more municipal child protection posts would be created. Yes, we need more money for child protection. And yes, we need to use both the municipalities, the foster homes and the volunteer organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e348	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e351	It is clear that the Prime Minister has been on a long journey when he is not aware of the situation in the field of child protection. The opposition has taken this up throughout the winter, and even the Council of State Light Hill clearly says that child protection fails children every day. Also, Arild Stokkan-Grande says that children are being betrayed by child protection. This year, Rogaland Bufetat will save 110 million. kr. That is, they are now setting up two institutions without any other measures in place. The Progress Party has responded to this, and yesterday we received support from the Rogaland Workers' Party, with Torfinn Opheim at the head, through a press release where they say they are concerned about the rapture in the institutional offer for children under 12 years of age in Rogaland. They respond to the closures of these private non-profit institutions without any alternative in place. This is the result. How far does the Prime Minister think the child-rescue measures will go before the Government wakes up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e358	It is not the case that there has been a cut-off in the state child protection system, and there has been a substantial increase in the amount of money that makes it possible to invest in municipal child protection. But we are facing some problems. We have problems recruiting enough foster parents. We are facing the problem that when you choose one institution over another, as the different regions often do, you lose the institution that no longer receives a job, even if another institution or perhaps foster home is responsible for the same children. I believe that even in the area of child protection, both state and municipal, we need to increase resources. So it's not that the situation in Norwegian child protection, whether state or municipal, is good enough. That's why we've increased the appropriations in 2010, and then we're going to do everything we can to continue the escalation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e366	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e369	In the coming five years, the Prime Minister has been Prime Minister, the opposition has tried to illustrate the current issue, namely that the mechanisms for tendering and the government's procurement of services systematically undermine the total resources of child protection. By means of closure and reduction within what is driven by, inter alia: the ideal institutions, we undermine the human resources that are sorely needed for the weakest group in our society. It's right that it's not a cut in national sense. But the government is now choosing to deal with a situation in Buffetat in a way that makes it a real cut in child protection capacity in the West. My question is, when the government chooses to deal with the situation this way, does the Prime Minister think that the offer in the West is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e376	The answer to that question is no. It's not a good enough offer in child protection. That is why we need to step up efforts in the field of child protection, both municipal and state. How much extra money comes into the 2011 budget, I can't say anything about now. But there is no doubt that the situation in child protection is not good enough. I think there's a very broad consensus on that. It is – as in many other areas – about both the need for more money and better organisation. I am a little uncertain about what the right side really means, for the right side is usually very dependent on us having competition and tenders. Then there's someone who gets it and others who don't get it. Those who don't get it will always be dissatisfied. The key here is that the total resources in child protection are too small. That's why we're stepping up this year. But we have to continue the escalation. How fast and strong it comes, we get back into the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e381	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e384	The last Prime Minister and I met here in the spontaneous questioning session he had also been abroad. At that time, the Council of State guessed that had had some kind of home alone party. What has shaped the news picture while he's been abroad this time, has been a form of the Government's Aunt Sofie. There's been a lot of 'Oh huffamei to huffamei, I'm so angry!' The Navarsete in this case has been angry, in fact, is the government's own policy, which leads to the closure of the local hospital. So far during this government period, six local hospitals have been closed down, and we know that there are more under assessment, for example. both in Kristiansund, Lærdal and Nordfjord. I expect both the Navarsete and the Prime Minister to take responsibility for this, of course, which is the government's policy. There can be no surprise, either for Navarsette or for the Prime Minister, that the wording that no local hospital should be closed has been removed from the mission document. Thus, when the Government formulates a policy, it is included in documents, in this case the mission document, which goes to the health companies to carry out the government's policy. I assume that the mission document is not an expression of the health minister's wish, but an expression of the government's policy. My question then is: Is this policy and what is expressed in the mission document, an expression of the government's policy as a whole, or is it someone who has taken it's, for example. The center party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e391	It's an expression of the government's policy that we're united behind, and it's also a follow-up to what's in the Soria Moria Declaration. What's in the Soria Moria statement is very clear, and it's also been followed up with the health companies. What has been emphasised very clearly in the mission document is that the relevant objectives and requirements given in previous mission documents are still in force. It was also said in the business meeting that previous claims for ownership are valid even if they are not repeated in the business meeting. So there is no doubt that what has been communicated in the past is at stake. It has been communicated publicly, it has been communicated to health businesses and it has been communicated orally and in writing. So there's no one in doubt about it. What is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the current policy and the Government Platform, and which is communicated to health companies, is the following: We shall not shut down local hospitals. Local hospitals are important. It gives security, it gives proximity, and it's important. But there are also a few other things in the Soria Moria Declaration. One thing that says, is that we're going to look at the work division between hospitals. Because it is absolutely essential that we get a better worksharing between hospitals to ensure quality. We have more and more specialisation, more and more high-tech, and then we can't guarantee that competence in all hospitals, it needs specialization. It is for the benefit of patients – that they should get the best possible offer. It's not always that you want to go to the nearest hospital. You want to go to the best hospital. We need to ensure good offers all over the country. The second thing we're saying is that there's going to be close proximity to food and emergency services, but we're not going to say it's going to be there in all local hospitals. The third thing we say, and that's important, is that in some situations, for example. Now in Østfold, we have started a good process that has agreed to shut down some hospitals and build one hospital near where the others were before. I am absolutely sure that the people of Fredrikstad understand that we are going to lay down the hospital in Fredrikstad, build a new hospital – I think it is in the municipality of Sarpsborg, between Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad – that covers what former local hospitals covered in that area. It's the population of that area, and it does the local hospital functions, even though it doesn't continue where it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e402	I thank you for your answer. I also thank you for confirming that the Central Party is behind the policy that has led to the closure of six local hospitals and that further evaluation is under way. I've been told that the prime minister has driven the country from the United States. He's also tried to control the Center Party, I guess, from the United States. That's what he's done with an innovation called iPad. It is not entirely without envy that I have registered that the Prime Minister has it. I see that there is no ‘app’ that can be added, which allows you to control the Center Party, but it is probably not the big market share to get at it, either. But now that he has steered the nation and Norwegian health policy from the United States with an iPad, and he has five years of experience in governing the country and health policy together with the Center Party, I want to ask the question: What has given the Prime Minister the greatest challenges – governing the country and health policy, or governing the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e411	I run the country well with the Center Party. It gives me challenges and experiences every day. I appreciate that. Politics has an incredibly fascinating trait: it's all about working with a contentious reality, where there are different positions, different experiences, and finding good solutions – whether it's different parties, different districts, different environments and different people. But just being able to make compromises and get solutions that balance different interests is one of the best and most important features of the policy. Those who do it have power and influence and can shape the Norway of the future. Those who don't do it, and who just ride the kelpher, have little influence, sit outside, and don't shape the Norway of the future. So I'm proud that I also use new technology to find good and balanced solutions. I'm going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e416	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e419	Navarre seats have been skin-stained over the past few weeks and not least the Centre Party’s own board members in healthcare companies for their management of the local hospitals. She does so despite the fact that closures come as a consequence of the Government's framework and mission documents adopted by the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV in this Chamber. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party proposed an increase in the regional health business framework of DKK 3 billion. Would it have been easier for the Government if the Center Party had taken the consequences of its performance and voted for the Health Policy of the Advance Party in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e426	The answer to that is no. After all, the Progress Party is proposing a comprehensive privatisation and commercialisation of Norwegian health. It's not good for the patients. This leads to increased social inequalities in the provision of health and, in particular, the release of market forces at the Norwegian health service will result in significantly greater geographical inequalities in health services. So it's like we're united behind the formulations of our government platform, the Soria Moria statement, where we say that local hospitals should not be closed down, but we stress that we need to look at the work division between hospitals. This process is ongoing and can be demanding and difficult, but important for the quality of hospitals. We're saying that we want to look at the kind of solution we've found in Eastfold, where you're going to have to lay down some hospitals to build a big, new and great area that covers the same area. If it's possible to do the equivalent elsewhere, we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e434	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e437	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that when assessing the content of hospitals and the worksharing between hospitals, quality and what is best for the patient – not what is best for the Centre Party. But if you start with what's best for the patient, it'll also be a good idea for the patient to know what's best. Today, the government is holding back information about the quality of our hospitals. For example, in the Health West, 34 gastric cancer operations were carried out in five hospitals in 2007. One of the hospitals performed one gastric cancer operation – we know that the critical limit is at 13, so it's 13 times less than the critical limit by performing these types of operations. Patients are not told which hospitals perform only one gastric cancer operation or only one liver cancer operation. Will the Workers' Party and the Government support the Right's proposal that the patient be informed of these quality figures, so that they can make conscious choices and themselves know what is best for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e446	I do not know the details of what the Right Concrete has proposed – I like to get into it – but at least I agree with what is the intention of the representative Höie now says, namely that we need more, better and more accessible information about the quality of hospitals. So the first thing we need is that we actually make a statement, that we get good numbers. We've had too little of that. When the Government has now started work on new health registers in a good number of areas, one of the aims is to get good numbers. That's actually how little we know about the quality of the Norwegian health care system, and we need systematic figures about it. I am concerned that it can be used, so that patients can also access this information. I am concerned that we should have free hospital choice. I am concerned that we should also take the consequences, because it is clear that in some places there are too few operations carried out, and thus the quality and the environment are too poor. So it's not about the closure of local hospitals, but it's about work sharing and specialization so that the quality gets good, and we get good information.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e453	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e456	We have now received a study on how to talk about the facts. If you define a hospital like Health South-East does, which is a collection of buildings in which specialist health services are provided, you can empty these buildings for the most part and still call it a hospital. Then you can make it look like the Prime Minister now makes it look like the government has not closed down a local hospital and is not going to shut down a local hospital. But the truth is something completely different. I don't think we're getting any closer to this questioning than the author Karsten Alnæs in a very readable article in the Evening Post has called 'Stoltenberg's mischief speech'. I think that the government should take responsibility for the local hospitals that have closed down during the period of government, and take responsibility for the fact that local and regional health companies are actually working on plans to empty local hospitals for emergency and food functions to such an extent that they can hardly be called hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e463	I maintain that what we, for example, are doing. do in Østfold, where we have plans to build a new hospital, not in Fredrikstad, but in the neighbouring municipality of Sarpsborg, and some may claim that it is to shut down a local hospital, is right to do so in order to provide a better offer to the population of Sarpsborg, Fredrikstad and in other parts of Eastfold. So you could say that it's shutting down a local hospital. I disagree. I believe that even if we put it in another municipality, it will be a better offer for the people of Fredrikstad. Secondly, the Stortinget has asked us – and I fully agree with the Stortinget – to review the food supply in order to ensure quality. Because there is a problem in some places that there are too few births so that the quality of the offer is too poor. It's not about shutting down local hospitals, it's not primarily about saving money, but it's about ensuring good quality in the food supply. If it's serious, whether it's heart problems or a difficult birth, it's not always the case that you're going to the nearest hospital, you're going to the best hospital. That's what we're dedicated to ensuring across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e473	Let's move on to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e476	As we have just heard, many debates are currently raging. Most take place in and between government parties, and in particular the Center Party acts like an unpredictable ash cloud – one day here, the other day there. The new offensive from the Central Party after over four years in the government office is to attack the Oslo power. Yesterday, Liv Signe Navarsette wrote in the U.G.: 'More than four years around the King's table, I've given myself insight into some of these stalls. Looking at the tip, many of those who have power and influence in Oslo don't understand and know geography and industrial structure in Norway. Neither do they understand the strength and strength of the land. The government has outlined in Soria Moria II what it wants to do. For example: the establishment of new state establishments shall be considered to be located outside Oslo and, for example, to be located outside Oslo. shall carry out an external review in order to promote concrete proposals for measures to ensure the spread of skills and new state jobs across the country. To me, it seems a little unclear whether the Council of Ministers of Navarsete's counter-power is in the hands of the Center Party or the Government. On the Ministry of Local Affairs website, the tour was duly presented, while Navarsete said yesterday in Political Quarter that this was an action directed by the Center Party. In any case, the tour business obviously takes time, for the municipal minister has only presented the Stortinget for two minor issues since the new government came into place in October. So the will to beat the Oslo power has so far given itself few concrete results. But who's the Navarset attacking? Yes, it is really its own government, a government led by Jens Stoltenberg. In their own words, Navarsete therefore believes that they have gained insight into some of the attitudes that prevail — that those who have power and influence do not understand and know the geography and industrial structure of Norway. It's a crushing sentence on the government's policy. When Navarsette feels so dismayed at arrogant Oslo people, it is nearby to ask: does the Prime Minister feel himself taken by the Navarsete campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e495	I believe it is important that we have a debate on power and the distribution of power. Power is not evenly distributed across countries and between different groups. There are major social differences associated with who has power, and who exercises power. There are large differences related to, for example: education, but there are also differences related to geography. I think it's good and important that there's attention to all of this. But as the councillor Navarsete himself has stressed, it can be far to power, whether in the Grorud valley or in the Gudbrand valley. The crucial thing is that for many people there is a long distance from power, and attention and discussion around it is important. This is not about weakening Oslo as a place where you live and work – this government has provided a capital message, which just underlines the important function of the capital – but it is about developing environments and competences outside Oslo as well. The government is behind the desire to develop skills jobs across the country. It will be good for the districts, and I also believe that it will be good for Oslo and the whole country. So it's 'By and land, hand in hand', which is a good old slogan from the 1930s when we made the peasant deal, which is now continuing in this government. And we want more of that, in dialogue with the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e502	It is good that it is ‘city and land, hand in hand’ and not ‘city and land, man against man’. One of the areas where at least the Right – and I think the Center Party – is very busy spreading power, is: giving municipalities, giving landowners greater power over their own land, their own property. It's true that not all power is in Oslo. The Directorate for Nature Management is in Trondheim, and the Director has, according to Trønder-Avisa, stated on 28 November 2008 that local government is not functioning, that municipalities are governed by the rules to the extent that it is contrary to national policies, and that many municipalities have had an agenda to circumvent Norwegian laws and regulations. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Director of the Directorate for Nature Management in this description of our many thousands of people elected in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e509	I don't think I'm going to start commenting on what individual directors say, when I don't know the context and what they're actually aiming for. What I'm concerned about is that we're going to have local government, that the municipalities are going to have power. At the same time, like all other parties here on Stortinget, I believe that we need to have national guidelines, national frameworks for it, and we have Directorates that manage and ensure that they are followed up. Among the things that are important in a discussion of power, important in a discussion of counterpower, are just to see whether directorates have too much power, and whether we have good enough control with the directorates. So it just emphasizes the importance of having an ongoing debate on power, the exercise of power and the distribution of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e515	Two additional questions will be raised – first Anders B. Werp.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e518	The Prime Minister stresses the importance of local autonomy. Then it is important that the municipalities have a view, or at least a clear overview, of the local value creation so that it can be returned to the community, and that the municipalities have the right to have their own land. But this government has removed the municipal corporation tax. And in addition, they have introduced a new planning and building law that transfers the right to dispose of the areas up in the administration. In what ways is local self-government strengthened when the government thus deprives municipalities of both wealth creation and land?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e523	Firstly, the main contribution to local self-government in recent years has been a substantial increase in the financial framework for municipalities, so that they can actually make choices and do what they want, namely to invest, to restore well-being. It has contributed to increased local freedom of action in relation to the time when the tight financial framework forced the municipalities to cut down and there was too little money in the municipal sector. The other important thing about local self-government is that we actually have municipalities that have power and authority. What we've wanted to do is give them greater freedom within an enlarged framework. One of the most important things we're doing now, the biggest conversion from eartaged to free resources, is incorporating the nursery allowance. I think that's 25-26 billion kroner, at least a very large amount, the biggest thing that's ever included, and that makes the municipalities really get more power. So it's in many different areas that we're going to help the municipalities gain power, but we're going to keep national governance with the most important frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e530	I did not fully understand the Prime Minister's reply in the first round on whether the Central Party's travel campaign when it came to the Oslo power was anchored in the Government, or whether it was the Central Party's own arrangement and tour. So I would like the Prime Minister to be more specific. And I would also like to challenge the Prime Minister whether this – if it is so that it is anchored in the Government – is almost a recognition that this government has been depriving the districts of power for four years. One thing is to transfer money to the municipalities, but now you use planning and building laws and land management and tighten in all these areas of conservation, protection, etc. and strengthen the county council in relation to the primary municipality – the county is given more stringent instructions to tighten up the autonomy of the municipalities. Is there a result of this when the Central Party is now going out and speaking with two tongues in relation to the government's failed district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e535	It is the municipal minister who has had these meetings, they are organized under the direction of the Ministry of Local Affairs. All that the Minister of State does, she does, of course, on behalf of the Government. It's for all government councils, it's perfectly obvious. Then, of course, it may be that the Center Party and each party can have their own opinions – but when the Government draws conclusions, when the Government thinks something, there is a unified government that draws those conclusions and makes the various proposals. So this government has transferred power. For example, the reform we carried out in the previous period was when we transferred a good deal of power from state to county authority – for example. in the case of other national roads — a significant transfer, both of money, of funds and of responsibility for an important part of the transport sector. Innovation policy, industrial development policy, the municipalities, elected bodies, have gained far greater influence over than in the past. I also mentioned a few other examples, for example. the nursery sector is now integrated into the free resources. But we are living in an eternal dilemma between the desire for national governance of the main lines of politics and local government, and that dilemma we will never finally solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e542	The oral question procedure is now changing, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e548	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 3 and questions 2 and 4 from the representatives of Svein Harberg and Elisabeth Aspaker, respectively, to the Minister of Knowledge, are moved and answered in response to question 18, i.e. at the request of the Council of State. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 5, from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Justice, the question is moved and answered before question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e561	We're going to go right to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e567	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The financial supervision came in March with guidelines for the financing of housing purchases. Loans shall not exceed 90 pst. the value of the dwelling. 70 pst. of which less than 35 years are borrowing more than 80 pst. of the housing value, 25 pst. more than 100 pst. The requirements may result in the exclusion of many young people from the establishment of owner-occupied dwellings. The BSU is highly sensitive to youth and housing. The Minister of Finance likes ‘money on book’, he will improve the BSU so that the scheme allows young people to save enough ‘money on book’ to meet the equity requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e576	The Government wants to facilitate the purchase of owner-occupied dwellings by young people, and the Government’s policy for stable economic development, which ensures high employment and avoids undue interest, will have positive effects on young people’s ability to settle with owner-occupied housing. In addition, the government relies on various loan and grant schemes, through the Husbank and the municipalities. Following a proposal from the Government, the BSU scheme was extended in 2009. The maximum annual savings amount was extended from NOK 15 000 to NOK 20 000, while the maximum total savings amount was increased from NOK 100000 to NOK 150000. The tax deduction rate is 20 pst. If the BSU is to be extended further, it is a budgetary question to which we must return in the context of the usual budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e586	I thank you for the answer, although it did not contain so many signals. I believe the Council of State and I very much agree that it makes sense with an equity requirement when buying a dwelling, it will stabilise the housing market and create a much healthier market. After the improvements made by the Council of State, the Right has proposed further improvements by proposing that the ceiling be raised in the previous State budget. It was in March that the Financial Supervisory Authority came up with these guidelines. It is then important to get out some signals to young people about how to make it possible for most people to save a large enough amount for a reasonable first-time dwelling. There we have – as the Minister of Finance was also involved – annual savings, the maximum amount and, if necessary, the age that you can go in and look at. I am perfectly aware that these are budgetary issues, but I had hoped for signals that you would come up with these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e595	We had an extensive discussion two days ago about saving, in an interpellation by the representative Sanner. I share the views of the representative, Gundersen; that it is important that young people should be able to save for owner-occupied housing, and that it is important to have equity at the bottom when buying housing. To borrow 100 pst. too many may be a risk sport – to use that expression. But as I said, giving concrete signals about what you're thinking about the system, we're going to have to wait until the beginning of October.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e600	Now it's going to be revised before that, so there's possibilities to give some signals there. But the debate we had in the Storting two days ago was quite revealing, for it showed a considerable contrast in the Government: the Labour Party representative was skeptical to the BSU, while the Central Party representative was very positive. I hope that the Minister of Finance puts a little weight behind the term ‘money on book’ and makes the entire Government understand that not shutting young people out of the housing market is quite important. Investing in housing is the most important way for the Nordics to save – and in particular important for the establishment of the wealth we all have. Thus, it is now extremely important to focus on the ability of the first-time start-ups to save the necessary equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e605	Yes, having a ‘money on book’ makes sense – whether you have a BSU or not. It is probably a broad perception in the Government that the BSU scheme is a good one, and it is far from the fact that one year ago, i.e. from 2009, proposed to improve the scheme as it is today. Then the future will show if there will be further improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e613	Then I will have another question addressed to the Minister of Finance: ‘The source tax is a very hot theme of many of those affected. The complaint storm has been strong and persistent. Many foreign pensioners have faced a very difficult life situation due to double taxation and difficulties in obtaining evidence. For many, there are health reasons for the move and not tax evasion. Nevertheless, a few impressions may be that they are treated as tax refugees. What is the reason why the Council of State does not do anything when it has clearly prepared the withholding tax too poorly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e622	I probably don't share the whole assumption for the question. There have been regular enquiries about the introduction of withholding taxes, but they have partly linked to different things: information needs, disagreements in the case itself, and problems some have had in obtaining evidence to achieve withholdings or exemptions. I would like to stress that the pensioners in question are not treated as tax refugees. The rationale for introducing withholding taxes was three-thirds. One was to secure the tax foundation against unreasonably eroding. The second was to ensure equal treatment for residents and non-resident pensioners in Norway. The third was to ensure the link between the financing of pensions and the taxation of pensions. Once a rule has been adopted, that means that, of course, the individual must document his fiscal position. Source taxes apply only to those who have emigrated from Norway under the Tax Act. Those who have lived abroad but who are still tax resident in Norway under the tax law are taxed here under any tax restriction rules that we have today. Complaints that we have received about that system have nothing to do with the introduction of the withholding tax. Then it is that the rules on withholding taxes on pensions have been thoroughly prepared, investigated and consulted, and have been regularly mentioned in the media. The case has been mentioned since 2004, and the proposal was at a wide consultation in the context of a 2007 consultation note. A large number of organisations participating in the consultation were actually positive in introducing withholding taxes. So it's been a long preparation before the decision itself was made in Stortinget. For information purposes, in addition to this media review, comprehensive individual and general information from the Tax Directorate and the Ministry of Finance has been provided on the websites of the person concerned, in letters to the beneficiaries and in response to enquiries. My opinion is that you have done quite a lot of work in relation to both informing about and contributing to a good and smooth introduction of the withholding tax. With regard to the tax liability's capacity to deal with the individual case, I have now taken steps to streamline the treatment, and one has collected it at one tax office, in the North Tax Office. The concrete progress made by taxpayers at the turn of the year 2009–2010 has meant that the procedure has taken a little longer, but I trust that this problem will now go over, that it is a temporary problem. It must be taken into account that a person considered residing in another country is in contact with the tax authorities of that country so that he can obtain the relevant documentation. At this point, many contacts have been made by the Ministry. As a result, among others: in relation to Spain, the Ministry took the initiative to meet with the Spanish tax authorities. It appeared that in most cases the necessary evidence was easy to obtain for those who have acted as tax residents, for example. in Spain. Failure to provide evidence to those who have not fulfilled their tax obligations to Spain is precisely the purpose of such a requirement. That there is a dissatisfaction with the introduction of a new tax is enough something we have to live with. Some people think that the tax is unfair, while others, of course, believe that the tax is fair and fair. Otherwise, as I said earlier in my answer, I believe that the introduction of the source tax itself is well prepared, and there is good information on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e643	I thank you for your answer. It's not surprising about the description, it wasn't during the treatment either. Then a general opposition said that the matter was to be sent back because of poor preparation, and the organisations that can do something about it were also clear about it. In the Tax Directorate's own internal journal, it says that the correspondence of one of the case handlers broke down quite quickly after the matter came, and they said that they had expected more clarification before it broke loose. So I think you have to be quite humble. Everyone can do a bad job, but it'll be a little bad when you can't admit it. This actually goes beyond a good deal of weak people who have moved abroad for health reasons, certainly not for tax purposes. In part, they save Norway for quite considerable expenditure. The fact that most people give up gradually doesn't justify the fact that you don't look at the special results that the introduction here has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e652	I think one has to separate two things in this case. One is, of course, the general dissatisfaction that many will have that there is actually such a tax in place, it will always be. Then it may well be that you have not had a healthy enough procedure. It is in my answer, too, that someone now has concentrated the treatment of such matters to one tax office, and that it may have been spent for a period of time on too few resources. But all in all, I believe that this is a matter that has been well informed about. And the fact that people have contacted the tax authority in Spain, in particular, shows that they are concerned about the smooth introduction of this tax. One should always be open to do things better, and it may well be that there are things we can learn from this matter in relation to information and other things. But that the withholding tax has come to be, I think is a fact that lies there, unless another majority of the Storting should think of abolishing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e659	It is not a theme either; no one has discussed it. The point is to get a proper treatment of those affected by this, and that there are good opportunities for documentation. The councils themselves were involved in the current documentation. I have one example, from one who has moved to an entirely different country than the most famous, but a country with which we have a tax agreement. He will not pay taxes under the tax agreement with the country in which he lives, nor will he receive the documentation he should have. The reaction from the tax office is that he has to get a certificate that he does not get a certificate. It is not easy to speak in a language that you cannot, and where the case handler probably does not know English either. So once again, this case is too poorly prepared, it's been introduced very quickly. Many have significant problems, and for some it is so bad that you don't have the necessary money to live off. That should be taken seriously by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e668	It is not possible for me to comment on the individual case raised by the representative Gundersen, but it is clear that if there are many cases of this type, he should contact the Norwegian tax authorities. I then assume that he will receive the help needed to obtain that kind of documentation. Because it is an important part of the source tax itself that if you have evidence that you are not supposed to pay taxes, then the tax liability goes away. One should take this up with the Tax Directorate, so that they are obscene if there are such cases, and so that one can get the help that one is entitled to, and people may feel that they are being treated well by Norwegian tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e684	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e690	I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘I refer to the answer to written question No. 846 on 19 March 2010 concerning the non-predictability of private rehabilitation institutions such as Godthaab. In the answer, the Council of State writes: ‘It is important that private healthcare providers experience the greatest possible predictability and long-termity of the relationship with the regional health business.’ Nevertheless, the Council of State is still silent and looks at months in the new year without a new agreement. What will the Council of State do to avoid similar situations affecting patients and employees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e699	As referred to in the answer to question No. 846 in writing, Godthaab Health and Rehabilitation had two agreements with Health South-East – one ordinary agreement within the field of rehabilitation and one agreement within the scheme Faster back. Similarly, there are many private training and rehabilitation institutions. When the representative Jan Tore Sanner refers to ‘the month ends in the new year without a new agreement’, the agreement under the Raskere arrangement applies. The ordinary agreement, which is the largest, has not been negotiated at this time. The agreement with Godthaab Health and Rehabilitation in the Rackere scheme was concluded in 2007. An additional agreement was concluded in 2008, which also applies to 2009. Health South-East has stated that the current agreements did not give rise to any further extension. The funds under this scheme are granted back more rapidly every year. The allocation of appropriations between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health and Welfare is assessed in cooperation with the social partners. The allocation of funds to individual regional health enterprises for 2010 was provided in the mission paper in 2010. Health South-East has informed that the acquisition process is being carried out as quickly as possible. The current institutions, including Godthaab Health and Rehabilitation, have been offered. New agreements will be concluded for 2010, with an extension of up to two years. As Minister of Health and Welfare, I cannot intervene in the contractual process between regional health companies and institutions, but I believe it is important that regional health companies contribute as much predictability as possible to these institutions. The issue raised relates to the scheme Faster Back and additional agreements under this scheme that do not give rise to any further extension. I want to follow closely the development of the system Faster back.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e710	I am a little surprised at the answer, because the Minister of Health and Health in the letter of reply to me stressed that she was concerned with predictability and long-termity for the private institutions. These institutions experience anything but predictability. They experience short periods of time as regards review procedures. They experience an offer of things they have not applied for, and no response to what they have applied for, while at the same time there is a great difference in the relationship between regional health companies and private institutions in the case of Racists. It is true that Health South-East has chosen a tender. Health West has projected the 2009 agreement. Health Mid-Norway has submitted a tender, and Health Nord has prolonged the contract. This whole system is mature for review, and I would ask the Minister of Health to consider the proposal that has been put forward in the past, namely that it is HELFO who is responsible for ordering such agreements with private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e719	I can understand very well that it can be felt very unpredictable with the system accelerating back. There has been a system that has been in place from year to year and which has been based on new tenders, because there has been a time-limited agreement. However, the general agreement between the health business and the rehabilitation institution is predictable because it goes over several years; an agreement will be concluded for several years. We're going to go through the system faster back, and there's going to be an evaluation here in the course of the May month. And then we'll see if there's such a difference between the different health companies. We are committed to rehabilitation and to predictability for the institutions that offer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e726	In this answer, I think I'm experiencing a slightly greater response. Now there is also a general dissatisfaction among many of the private institutions – one has experienced a tightening under the sitting government. I record that the Council of State says that she can understand that the faster return management is perceived as unpredictable. Then I assume that there is a new and more predictable regime in place before we go into a new year. Because that's how we deal with and adopt the budget for the autumn. In that case, it should not be two or three months before the institutions are made aware of this. When the institutions still experience only a few days' notice of appeal, it is anything but predictable. But let me repeat the question that concerns HELFO. In the past, during the Right Government period, we had a good system, which was perceived as both predictable and good by the institutions, namely that HELFO orders, and that the institutions carry out. Will this be assessed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e735	It is not planned to change the fact that regional health establishments are responsible for the agreements with each institution. That's how it has been, and that's how it will be. We have to separate the two arrangements. These are the main framework agreement for rehabilitation institutions, training institutions, and for treatment there, which goes back over several years, and Faster, which is an agreement between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour, and which is also negotiated by the social partners in a way other than the general agreement, which applies over several years. I might experience that it's a mix of the two.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e745	‘14. In April, the Health Directorate presented the report ‘A safe supply of food — Proposals for quality requirements for food institutions’. At the same time, there is a process in several regional health enterprises to make changes in food supply. The media have found that some of the changes are not acceptable to the Government and that these signals have to affect health business decisions. Who does the Council of State consider to be responsible for the professional soundness of the offer and for liability in the event of damage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e752	For the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 A joyous event concluded with the Government's proposal that regional health businesses prepare comprehensive and multi-annual regional plans for the supply of food, in cooperation with the relevant municipalities. The plans shall form the basis for the future birth offer. I have suspended the deadline for the regional health companies until 1 October to ensure local anchoring and that the plans are consistent with the government's policy. Local processes must have broad participation from users, employees’ representatives and local policy authorities together with the municipalities concerned. The size has been made aware several times that no changes in the food structure will be made until these plans are in place. A working group has drawn up proposals for quality requirements for food establishments, and the Health Directorate sent the report to the hearing last week, with a deadline for consultation only in June. The professional content and consultation input will form the basis for drawing up national guidelines on the area of birth. The report proposes the closure of three reinforced feeding rooms. These are maternity wards run by midwives with surgeons or gynecologist in readiness for emergency Caesarean cuts. I have not taken a decision on these proposals. It is for the regional health establishments concerned to assess these proposals when drawing up the regional plans. The individual health undertaking, which consists of one or more hospitals, has a statutory responsibility for the carrying out of the activity and for providing good and equivalent specialist health services. Health enterprises are themselves legal entities and are both professionally and financially responsible for their own activities. Health establishments are responsible for organising activities in such a way as to ensure that the health services provided are sound. Norwegian patient compensation is liable for patient injury. If the damage is not caused by a systemic defect but health professionals have not carried out their work in accordance with the requirements of the Health Care Professional Act, individual health professionals may also be liable. Regional health establishments have overall responsibility for planning and facilitating specialist health services. It is therefore important that the plans now being developed by regional health businesses focus on geography, communication opportunities, structure of local midwife services and accompanying services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e767	Does that mean that if one of the regional health companies in connection with these plans proposes to lay down one of these reinforced feeding rooms because they believe it is the most professionally sound, then it is not appropriate for this health minister and this government to intervene in it, as long as it is well justified on a professional basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e772	The process now taking place in some health regions is based on the communication addressed by the Stortinget last year. What's very clear there is that there must be work that takes place with good anchoring in local authorities, that there must be good processes for it. When these finally go into the regional health companies, and I get them on my table, I will make a total assessment of what might be available. But it's not like there's only one answer here. There may be questions of strengthening somewhere, or there may be questions of changing the organisation of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e779	In 2007, the National Council for Paternity Care reduced its work in protest against the then Minister of Health of the Workers' Party, Sylvia Brustad, because the then government, on the initiative of the state council that has now engaged in the matter, stopped the closure of a food supply that the National Council for Paternity Care considered irresponsible. If this Council of State in the current process, e.g. has a case been brought on the table by one of the health establishments which involves the closure of such an offer examined that proposal, the Council of State considers that it is the Council of State or the health undertaking which has the professional responsibility for the offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e784	There should be no doubt that we have to listen to professional advice. That's why this whole work is going on. The size has also joined the Government’s proposal to develop regional plans for the provision of food, given that there was a discussion about whether the quality was good enough around. Then it's important that we go through it, and that we also assess from place to place whether it's right to have this organized as today. So it's also that I'm very concerned about the quality of the offer to the natives and to other patient groups. We need to set up healthcare to ensure quality throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e794	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘Patients with atrial fibrillation are currently experiencing two to three years waiting time for ablation treatment in all health regions. The feiring clinic can offer such treatment, which Health South-East has rejected on behalf of health regions. However, the health economy administration has agreed to purchase 100 treatment sites for the arrhythmia patients in a private hospital in Denmark. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that arrhythmia patients should wait for years for treatment and then be sent to Denmark, rather than receiving prompt treatment at the Feiringklinikken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e803	I share the representative’s concern about waiting time for cardiac fibrillation patients who need ablation treatment. The waiting time is unacceptable. This was also the background to the ministry’s request to the Health Directorate last March for a review of the offer and capacity of these patients. A working group has now reviewed the offer, and I have recently received the report from the Health Directorate. The Health Directorate recommends that the ablation treatment capacity of cardiovascular patients be increased. There is a need to increase from around 350 to 1400 procedures per. years, i.e. about 1,000 more treatments. This means that 600-800 more patients can get help. The background to the recommendation is that ablation should be offered as the main measure for some patients with very severe fibrillation, which we have not been able to help in the past. According to the law, these patients will be entitled to the necessary health care and thus a deadline for starting treatment at the latest. In the event of a deadline breach, which is also referred to by the representative, the Health Economics Administration, HELFO, has concluded a framework agreement with a clinic in Denmark to purchase up to 100 treatments per year. Today, only eight professionals are available in five operating sites to carry out such interventions in Norway. Recruitment to the subject is difficult, also internationally. It takes from three to four years to train an operator, i.e. after completion of a specialist in heart disease. Ablation treatment is a new resource-intensive treatment option. It is complicated to select patients, treat them and follow them up. The Health Directorate therefore recommends that the treatment should be localised until further notice to regional hospitals, with established arrhythmic environments. I am aware that the Feiring Clinic has expressed a desire to offer such treatment in cooperation with the public. Whether we need to supplement the public offer with services from private hospitals in the future, we will continuously assess. The 2010 mission paper calls for regional health businesses to initiate measures to reduce the waiting time for patients with cardiac fibrillation. They report that they are building up treatment capacities. Health South-East Up states that it has been invested in a new angiography laboratory with contributions from the Government’s 2009 package of measures. The professional environments of Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet are now to be co-located at the Rikshospitalet. This means that capacity will increase significantly in 2010. Capacity shall be built up over a three-year period, inter alia: through the training of new operators. This is probably an example of new knowledge giving new patient groups the opportunity for a better life. It is important to stress that this treatment requires careful evaluation in advance and good control after treatment. In addition, treatment is both resource-intensive in terms of equipment and time use. It doesn't rarely take five to eight hours to treat a patient. The ministry is now reviewing the report, and I will follow up the recommendations, so that these patients are assured of the treatment they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e818	I thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State says that only the regional hospitals in Norway are going to do this treatment. But why is it that the state buys treatment facilities for the worst break-in patients in a commercial hospital in Denmark? So now, within three to four months, the Feiring Clinic can establish a fair and good offer. The ministry knows that, but it is Health South-East and the regions that have put an end to it. As the Council of State says, there are long waiting lists. It will take a long time for the other hospitals to build up capacity. So here you have an opportunity to do this as quickly as possible. I think this matter so far is a fantastic picture of the health lottery for patients, and how the game is run by different health actors and professional environments. It's simply heartbroken towards the patients. I find it pointless that we cannot now apply the Feiring Clinic, which can establish the offer quickly, so that patients come out of line and return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e831	I'm reacting to the intensity of the question. In the case of sending patients to Denmark, only those patients who have not received treatment within the time limit set. I'd like to stress that per. Today, there are no private actors in Norway who can carry out this treatment, either at Fairing or elsewhere. When we only have eight specialists across the country, and we operate this treatment in five places, it is important that we build a more robust offer on the large regional hospitals that have already begun and that have also invested in expensive equipment. Then you have to evaluate the situation beyond, whether there will be enough capacity, and also, as I said in my post, whether there will be a need to use Feiraring or other private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e838	The council says she's responding to the intensity. Yes, and it's going to be more intense on behalf of the patients. There are so many who are in line, and we are getting so many calls. Many are ill - satisfied and ill - informed because they do not receive this treatment. The Board of the Feiring Clinic applied in 2009 for work to start up this treatment, but received no from Health South-East on 16 August 2009. They can thus establish such treatment within three to four months. Then I think it is incredible that a long time should be spent in public to build up this offer and to buy services in Denmark, when you know that there is a possibility of a significant increase in capacity in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e845	I also said that it takes years to train operators to carry out this very complicated treatment, which has given a new queue because we can help many. I'm just as concerned that patients should get help as the representative, Sjøli. It is not that a few people are reserved to be concerned about the patients. But I am also concerned that we will have to build up a good offer around the country, so that we can take the queue that is. Many people are waiting for this type of treatment, because they now have the opportunity to be treated and to recover. As the representative Sjöli very well says, it's people who are in fact incapacitated because they have severe heart fibrillation. When building up a treatment offer, we have to assume what we have. We have eight specialists in Norway today. Whether we're going to increase this, we're going to get back to. We think this very carefully, because it's important that more people get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e854	We go back to question 5 from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e860	‘Many Eritreans in exile pay 2 pst. of the income of the Eritrean authorities. NRK Urix on 24 March 2010 showed that many Eritreans in Norway are afraid of reprisals from the regime. The practice, as described in the ‘Eritrea: Issuance of passports and exit permits’ of Landinfo 24 November 2009, involves the extortion of people, including Norwegian citizens, by a foreign power. How long does the Minister for Foreign Affairs know the practice, and how does he feel about the extortion carried out by a former beneficiary with whom Norway has diplomatic relations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e867	The question was originally asked to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it was sent to me as the correct address, as I have also answered a similar question in the past. I refer to the written question No. 949, from Torbjørn Røe Isaacsen, and my answer of 8 April, which is available on Stortinget's website. As I then wrote, on the basis of the question from the representative, Røe Isaksen, I am familiar with Landinfo's note of November 24, 2009, which includes: they are informed that Eritreans in exile are required to pay 2 pst. of gross income of Eritrean authorities. The Land Information Professional of the Foreign Administration, Landinfo, is part of the Foreign Administration and is an administrative member of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. Land information is produced, inter alia, by: reports and thematic notes as well as responding to specific requests for country information for use in the handling of individual matters in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and the Study of Foreign Affairs. The management conditions in the foreign field do not suggest that the Directorate of Foreign Affairs should report on this type of information to the Department, nor has the Directorate done so here. In addition to the information on Landinfo's websites, I have no closer knowledge of the practice of taxing Eritrean citizens in exile. There is reason to stress that taxation of own citizens by itself is not a critical issue. Whether or not the Eritrean authorities are engaged in illegal extortion of people in Norway, I have no basis or reason to comment on, in addition to what is provided by the Landinfo information. In my opinion, people who may feel exposed to such illegal extortion should report this to the police, so that the matter can be investigated in the usual way, but with all the challenges that arise in these kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e876	I am pleased that the Council of State has now, also in connection with previous questions, been involved in the matter. This case raises two issues. It is important to be aware that this is not only about Eritrean citizens in exile, but also – if you believe what NRK Urix has shown – about Norwegian citizens who have been granted citizenship after having fled from the regime in Eritrea. One of the issues raised is that of undue pressure, that it is a foreign regime that indirectly exerts pressure on Norwegian citizens, or also Norwegian citizens. The second is that this practice, as it is described, among other things. by Landinfo, is a practice in which, in order to obtain ‘forgiveness’ from the home country and to be able to carry on normal business, to have contact with family or to have financial interests in the home country, one has to buy freely from previous ties to the regime. My question is whether the Minister of Justice would like to examine this matter in more detail and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e885	As far as this type of problem is concerned, we are facing quite major challenges in the area of Norwegian law enforcement. I just want to express very clearly – there I think the questioner and I agree very much – that in the case of much of the undue pressure being pointed out, whether it is against Norwegian citizens, people with double citizenship or Eritrean citizens, it can be clearly affected by Norwegian criminal law – quite clearly. We have rules for that. It is that when people are subjected to pressure, and especially when they are linked to social benefits or the need for more quality of life, whether it be travel or other things, we have rules for it. That's why it's important to say very clearly that in this case you have to report this to the extent that you are exposed to it, because it can have a criminal consequences, but it can also have consequences for how we, as Norwegian authorities, deal with the respective cases with people, regardless of where they come from, or which citizenship they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e894	There is also another aspect of this, and it is that, at the moment you have received ‘forgivement’ from your home country, from Eritrea, and are given the opportunity to engage in economic relations, to have property or to have contact with your family, it is also the case – if you believe the information from the NRK – that you sign a so-called letter of forgiveness. There are also some questions about the protection needs of these persons. Then you can wonder, or at least it's worth asking yourself, if this is some kind of established planned practice on the part of Eritrean authorities. That is why I would like to repeat the question, not only if it is possible to prosecute pressure or threats indirectly – that is, of course, but whether the Minister of Justice will look into the matter and possibly do something if it turns out that this is an organised phenomenon, a widespread phenomenon, which I believe Norway should not allow?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e899	I remind you that here we are talking about a situation that has been imposed on citizens, either by Eritrea or Norway or both, and that we cannot necessarily use the Norwegian judiciary. What I think is crucial in this case is that Landinfo is aware of this issue and includes it in all the assessments made by the alienation unit. What I think we should be observant of is that when decisions are taken in Norway with consequences for citizens in such a situation, those assessments also raise the issue of persecution. That is why I believe that Landinfo and the Foreign Affairs Administration have just done their job, in the sense that they have pointed this out in the reports that go to the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department, which take the respective decisions. So I am sure that this is part of making the decisions that are relevant to the sector for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e904	We're going to go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e910	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to an article in Hamar Arbeiderblad of 14 April 2010, the police chief in Hedmark will spend everything from Nazism to fraud up to $300,000 to save money. It's a financial crisis in Police Hedmark. Is the Council of State satisfied with this development that will be able to hit most people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e919	It's a little dependent on what kind of approach we have to the police situation in Hedmark, whether you just rely on Hamar Arbeiderblad and other newspapers, or whether you choose to go a little deeper into it. I'll pick the last one. I would like to congratulate Hedmark police districts on their efforts in the last year and also congratulate Hedmark police districts on their excellent results. So in the last three months, the police district has moved up by a percentage of clearance of 43.6 – that’s very high – and it’s going up. We must be very happy about that. I also believe that Hedmark Police District is now in good faith in bringing down its remains. I have been reported to have approx. 10 pst. decline in the balances, and that's good. What we need now, including in Hedmark, is a debate on – and we need police leaders to discuss it – how to use all the funds that have actually been transferred to the police, including to the police in Hedmark, in recent years. I have previously explained this in a written reply to the representative of Bredvold on 3 March. But I allow myself to point out that Hedmark Police District from the government change in 2005 until 2010 has increased its budgets from – and I underline – 189 million. NOK 261 million. kr. There's a growth of 72 million. SEK, or 38 pst, which has benefited Hedmark. All of us pagan patriots are happy about that. From 2009 to 2010, where the economic crisis has taken place too fully, it is not that it is cut in the budget of Hedmark Police District, rather on the contrary: it has increased by 27.1 million. kr, an increase of 12,5 pst. It is a very good bet, according to my concepts. Hedmark police district received 17 years’ work on the action package presented in January 2009. It continued in 2010 with an annual impact of 11 million. kr. In addition, in 2010 the district was strengthened by five annual works for strengthening border control and combating mobile crime. Furthermore, the police district compensation in connection with the special agreement – people have to work longer, and we also have several annual works in Hedmark that are not in the papers account – 10.5 million. kr. According to the police chief in Hedmark, the police district has to reduce operational expenditure in 2010 for three main reasons: firstly, a deficit from 2009, among others. Because of a severe criminal case and a new building, additional rent costs in 2010 — that applies to both Hamar, Eidskog and some other places — I have understood — and I have contributed to renewing the ICT systems of the police, which are absolutely necessary and will also release resources in the long term. However, the latest results show that the budgets of the time, record attendance at the Police College and the increased number of civilian posts provide results for greater security. Crime also goes down, and more things are solved. As the newspaper Eastlanden wrote a week ago: ‘Nevertheless, the police do good work. The clearance rate has increased further over the first three months of this year, compared to last year; from 40 per cent to 43.6 per cent. Some police officer Tormod Bakke is pleased with.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e939	I thank the Council of State for the answer. First, I want to say that I have the greatest confidence and trust in and respect for what the police do, both those who work civilly, and those who work in uniform. There's no doubt about it. The Minister of Justice and I certainly have the same objective. In the newspapers, both in the Glamdalen, East Lingen and HA, there has been a lot about this in the last few days. Among other things, it says in the Glamdalen on Saturday 17 April: ‘Kongswinger region has simply become a balancing post, says police station chief Bjørn Berntsen in Kongsvinger and announces fewer police services here in the district.’ Tuesday, April 20, in the same paper, it says: ‘Despite the fact that Hedmark police district has never had more money to run, it needs to be cut and saved, and more cases will be closed.’ ‘May resolve several cases’, it also says. That's what I can read in many newspapers. What worries me is that the police have to settle matters. Often these are small things, but there are things that matter very much to those affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e960	My clear recommendation is that the representative reads more than newspapers, because the speech of the figures is obvious. In order to produce what has been cut in a police district that has been so enormously increased, it becomes hopeless both for the Progress Party, which has more money than anyone else, and also for the Government to grant more money. Time has come, including in Hedmark, for police officers, police officers and others to take responsibility for how to get the most back for the large amounts that are now actually granted. The fact that a police district is running short and has to pull it over this year has to be cleaned up. That is why I am very happy that Hedmark has actually managed to do that job by now they are in the process of downgrading. Being able to increase the percentage of information does not mean that there are several criminal cases that become unsolved, as the representative puts it. In fact, that means that there are several criminal cases leading to conviction. We have to be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e969	I thank you once again for your answer. I thought criminal acts for up to 300,000 kroner were also a serious matter for the Minister of Justice. I thought check fraud, hotel fraud, restaurant and taxi bills that were not paid were serious. Things like individual thefts, Nazisms, minor frauds and such things are now being considered. I also read in a newspaper this day that even the church fire in Våler is now being assessed. I definitely think that most people get a little scared of their everyday lives, because other people's everyday lives, when the police can't take things that affect people the most, because of economics, that there's not enough money. I guess that's what's missing. As I said, I have the greatest confidence in the police and the loner. They're doing the best they can. They work overtime, and I'm sure many of them even work for free. They're doing the best they can, but the funds don't go, and crime is increasing. It's great that the clearance rate is increasing, but there's also an increase in criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e978	The representative does not have the cover to say that there is an increase in criminal acts. We look at some fields that there is an increase, but in other fields there is a significant decrease. That's why we're now happy these days that the number of villa break-ins in Oslo has fallen by 50 pst in the last few months. We have to be happy about that. Many of these positive numbers are also seen in Hedmark. But what is important is that the police districts are able to solve more and more cases, so that more crime is detected. It helps us bring crime down further. I believe that many of the issues referred to by the representative Bredvold, both fraud and other types of cases, are very serious issues that the police districts need to intervene on. Then I think that the strategy that Hedmark has now chosen to get rid of the leftovers and get the clearance percentage, is the only dangerous path. Once you have received so much money at the same time, it should be missing. We need to focus on getting the most out of the large allocations given, as much as possible out of the DNA reform, as much as possible because we are training more than 700 new policemen, who are record-keeping in Norway, as much as possible because we are now building a new emergency network of between NOK 3 and 4 billion, so that the total police resources provide the most security for people. I'm convinced we'll be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e990	‘The Government’s objective of 3 TWh wind power by 2010 will not be met. According to the Internet version of the Technical Weekly, the Council of State is concerned about the cost level of land-based wind power and believes that Enova needs to support technology development for onshore wind power in order to reduce costs. According to the Minister of Oil and Energy, Enova will provide support based on the principle of ‘most energy for money’. What does this mean for the objective of 3 TWh wind power and Enova’s use of money for investment aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e997	In the 2010 state budget, it was established that we do not reach the target of 3 TWh wind power. It was further established that ‘in 2010, Enova will continue to have a major investment in wind power’. This has been followed up by launching a new round in the wind power programme. For the future, a single Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market will be the main means of promoting renewable power generation. In the context of the launch of the licence market, it is natural for Enova to turn its attention to other areas. In the government statement, we have stated that Enova should be more focused on demonstration of immature technologies. It is also relevant to strengthen the commitment to energy efficiency and heat solutions based on different renewable energy sources, waste heat and heat pumps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1004	I could not quite see that there was a direct response to the goal of 3 TWh wind power. Is it being maintained? Within what time horizon is it maintained? And how does this harmonize with the state council saying that Enova should provide support based on the principle of “most energy for money” – a principle I fully share. But if you look at the statements of Enova in today's Business for approx. So a year ago, they were going to meet the cost. That's a completely different principle, because then you have to satisfy 3 TWh anyway. I think one should be pragmatic in this. If one sees that a technology is becoming more expensive than expected, one should adjust the targets rather than becoming firm but with a fuzzy order for Enova. Can the State Council clarify the following: Should Enova discharge 3 TWh wind power? Within what time period, if so? And do you have a maximum of costs in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1011	I am a little surprised that this seems unclear. So, in the budget proposal, we have informed Storting that the target is not being achieved. At the same time, the principle of ‘most energy for money’ referred to by the representative is the leading principle of Enova’s activities. What we've gone into and done is we've previously defined a separate measure of wind power, because we wanted to do something that followed a separate path. For if one did not have a separate objective of wind power, wind power projects would receive very little support, because energy efficiency and heating projects would have gone into less costly projects than wind power. So we've chosen to channel money through our own wind energy target at an earlier stage. We don't see that when we do. That's announced to Stortinget. In addition to this, there is nothing new in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1018	Thanks for the answer. But can the State Council specify whether the objective of 3 TWh is at a later date of fulfillment? Or is it abject as a result of a failure to do so in 2010? What signals has Enova provided regarding further investment aid for wind power? Would you like to continue to do 3 TWh at a later stage? And if so, when? Or is it the principle of ‘most energy for money’ that will apply within the technology types in which Enova is to engage? I understand that the government believes that hydropower should not be involved in that area, even if I want it to be. But I'm not going to take that debate here. But the question is, are there any kind of targets around wind power that are numerically fixed, and what is the year for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1025	The last thing the representative of Solvik-Olsen knows very well is that it is not beyond the target that has been set for 2010. The size would have been announced if a new goal had been set, and the Stortinget would have been invited to discuss it. The goal of increasing wind power generation, and this is the goal of 3 TWh, is to keep up with, in the sense that Enova continues to work on achieving good wind power projects and in 2010 will spend more money on wind power projects than almost ever before. We get a market-based support system from 2012 through green certificates. Then, as far as 2011, we need to look at the response in the market in 2010, and also make an opinion about the interest in the wind industry in order to enter Enova's support-based schemes versus entering something later into a market-based support system based on green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1035	‘The government has proposed a one-hour reduction of allowable turn-over time to one hour. 2:00 a.m. The proposal will affect the profitability of the hotel and restaurant industries, but also a number of cultural actors such as clubs, scenes and festivals, all of which depend on alcohol sales to survive. Cultural actors all over the country are now mobilizing to campaign to stop the Government's proposals, and the Minister of Culture has also met representatives of them. What will the Council of State do now to prevent the proposal from being implemented and affecting cultural life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1042	The proposal to limit the maximum time allowed by the alcohol law for donation by one hour, from 1:00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 2:00 p.m., has been at a wide consultation. A majority of the hearing bodies support the proposal, but the proposal has not yet been finalised. The proposal is justified by the fact that alcohol is the drug that causes the most social and health damage in Norway. There is also evidence that late giving times cause a lot of violence and trouble, especially at night, night to Saturday and Sunday. According to the State Institute for Drug Research, several studies show that a significant proportion of the violence situation occurs at or at gift shops. Research from Sweden has shown that the relationship between alcohol consumption and violence is stronger in the case of alcohol consumed in gift shops than in the case of alcohol consumed in other contexts. A Norwegian study shows that the more frequent you are in gift shops, the more likely you are to get involved in alcohol-related violence. A summary of international research shows that changes in timing are followed by changes in violence. So when we cut down on the timing, we get less violence. I am aware that the proposal can also have financial implications for the hotel and restaurant industries – and perhaps also for clubs, scenes and festivals that have alcohol as an important source of income. I understand that there is a concern about the loss of such revenues, which is the basis for different types of cultural activities. However, the Government has not taken a final decision in the case, and these are elements that must be included in the further discussion. If, however, we get changes in the seasons, I hope and believe that cultural life will also be able to adapt to a new regulatory framework. That way we'll still be able to enjoy a living cultural life, while perhaps it's necessary to reduce the turnip times.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1053	I thank you for the answer, and I interpret the Council of State to that she is aware of the cultural views of this case and will bring them to the final discussion in the Government – at least that was my interpretation of that part of the answer. Now there's a lot to be said about the government's proposal. It restricts the room for action of local politicians. Many local governments themselves have adopted stricter spectres than the national rules, but that freedom of action is now narrowed. In addition, there is also the industrial policy aspect of this, affecting an industry that is already struggling with the effects of the financial crisis. But now it's the Minister of Culture I've asked the question to, so I'd like to confirm that the Minister of Culture will bring these points of view and concern for cultural life into the discussion in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1060	I have met a number of actors working on different scenes, who have brought these elements into the discussion, and of course I will take this further. It has also been said to actors in Bergen – actors who have been in contact with me about this that the representative has certainly also been in contact with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1065	I'm pleased with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1073	My question is as follows: ‘To be sick, you must be healthy. For many people who meet Nav, this is a quote that many feel is a correct description. According to Varden on 13 April, a 60-year-old woman has now struggled for three years to get a specially adapted car that will ensure her a better life after a disease that has led to disability. The bureaucracy in this case has probably cost as much as the car would cost. Unfortunately, this case is not an exceptional case. Will the Council of State change the legislation and the practice of today’s legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1082	In order to benefit from car support, the entry conditions of Chapter 10 of the Law on Civil Protection and the regulations on motor vehicle social security must be met. These are mainly related to functionality and transport needs. Furthermore, benefits may only be granted if the user has a transport need which cannot be satisfied without his own car. In 2003, the previous government made a change to the car regulations which introduced a distinction between so-called group 1 cars, normal passenger cars, and group 2 cars, specially adapted vans. One of the conditions for having a right to a car in Group 2 is that you are unable to get in and out of the car on your own without using a lift or ramp. The regulation gives the individual case handler little room to exercise professional judgement. This applies in particular to the strict conditions for the allocation of specially adapted vans. You can get support for a trailer if you need to carry larger aids, such as: a wheelchair. The main reason for the conversion in 2003 was to increase resources following users with the most severe disabilities and the greatest need for special adaptation of their cars. The conversion also leads to more flexibility for the user group in need of standard passenger cars. These types of regulatory boundaries often lead to borderline cases that may be perceived as unfair to the individual. However, any amendment to the legislation at this point would be a budgetary matter and would also need to be assessed against other necessary measures. The Ministry does not have any concrete plans to make any changes to this legislation. However, I would like to point out that the Tool Option Committee will deliver its short-term option. Depending on the proposal of the sample, it may become relevant to consider any changes to this legislation as part of its follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1095	First, I would like to thank you for your answer. I think it's a little sad that the Department – or the Council of State – is not now considering changing the legislation, unless there should be changes from the sample to which the Council of State referred. What I also want to point out is that in this specific case, it is about a person who has actually stated that Nav has made a mistake. Anyway, Nav chooses to go on with the same argument and not to think that this person is going to get a better and more worthwhile life. Reference is made to the TT regime, which we have not long debated in this Chamber, and all parties agreed that the TT regime is too bad. So it's not a solution for this person – nor for many others who have applied for a car. I hope, however, that the Council of State will take this matter into account – and some of the other matters that I am convinced the Council of State is well aware of – in order to look at the legislation, because it seems very unreasonable for people to have the opportunity to function in society to be severely reduced due to the fact that this car system is not being put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1104	We used approx. NOK 1.5 billion on trips to disabled people, so this is an area where a lot of money is spent. What the previous government did in 2003 was just to look at how to make sure you got the best offer for those who needed the most. That's the background of these regulations. What I've said is not that I don't want to evaluate this unless there's a call from the Tool Selection Board, but this has to be seen as a whole, because it's a resource framework where you have to distribute the funds in the best possible way to those who need it the most. With regard to this specific matter, I hope the representative understands that it does not allow me to go into any further detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1111	Yes, I understand that the Council of State does not have the opportunity to go into specific individual matters. But what I think one should bring with it in this case is that doctors and all the actors with the exception of Nav believe that this is a person who should definitely be in the target to get this type of car. That's why I think it's a little sad that the Council of State was a little repulsive instead. Now she says she'll come back if the sample comes with recommendations, and I think that's very good. We know that there are many things, and we get a lot of requests about this particular problem. This is about the quality of life to be given to people who are ill. Having a car to get to and from things, and being able to participate organisationally in both voluntary work and other things, means a lot to individuals. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will nevertheless look into this, and see if you can give the Nav case handlers an opportunity to exercise discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1118	So, as I said at the outset, there are clear rules for what falls under one or the other and not the discretion of the individual case handler. But it is clear that it will always be an assessment, and it will, as I said, also for some people might seem so that it feels unreasonably. As I said, I cannot go into this matter. I assume that Nav evaluates this properly. And then I repeat what I said: when we get the selection setting, you have to look at the whole of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1128	«On TV 2 6 April d.a. it appeared that vessels which are actually recreational craft are registered in the Register of Marks for Fishing Vessels and that the owner is entitled to undue deduction of VAT. The register contains 1 150 boats with low or no income from fishing. Many of the boats are typical recreational boats, where there is no room for either fishing equipment or storage of catch. 30 years of sponsorship may have brought on the state up to 500 million. kr in the loss of VAT and other charges. What will the Council of State do to end this unculture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1135	I would like to point out at the outset that the Merchant Register for fishing vessels is and will be the central register of the administration of active fishing vessels. The register shall assist both the fisheries authorities and other administrative bodies, including: the tax and tax authorities. Of course, as the top responsible for the fisheries authorities, I am concerned that the register is kept as correctly as possible at all times. It is essential for well-functioning management. The Director of Fisheries therefore undertakes annual clearances in the register to ensure that vessels are erased if they have not recorded sufficient catches. The TV 2 report claimed that more than 1000 pleasure boats could be misregistered in the brand register. I'm not familiar with how to get to that number. The Directorate-General for Fisheries has informed the Department that they assume that approx. 100 boats of the type mentioned in the case are listed in the trademark register, but only a few of them are registered without sufficient catch. These will be routinely deleted on the next roll. The Directorate of Fisheries has stated that they will also carry out an additional review of the trade mark register to see if there are vessels that should be examined in greater detail. At the end of 2009 there were 6,510 vessels in the trade mark register. Entry into the trade mark register has tax and tax implications and it is therefore important that the registration is correct. All vessels used for acquiring fishing, including in combination with other activities such as: recreational activities shall be recorded in the trade mark register. However, in the case of value added tax, it is important to be aware that entry into the trade mark register itself is not sufficient to obtain an exemption. It is related to the fact that the exemption is subject to the exclusive use of the vessel for acquisition fishing purposes. The VAT code lays down strict conditions to benefit from the exemption. Firstly, the vessel must only be used for fishing and must also be fit for both construction and equipment. In the case of smaller fishing vessels, the exemption is also subject to confirmation from the tax office that the buyer is registered in the VAT register and has, within the last 12 months, been placed on the market for fish exceeding the amount limit for registration. Furthermore, there shall be a declaration by the purchaser that the vessel is exclusively for use in professional fishing. Registration in the trade mark register is also a condition for exemption from the tax on marine engines and mineral oil and, for tax purposes, registration of fishing boats may raise specific questions regarding the justification of any depreciation deductions and other operating deductions relating to the boat. I am committed to ensuring that the fishing authorities and the tax and tax authorities have good cooperation to ensure that the registration provisions and the tax and tax laws are not circumvented. I have already agreed with the Minister of Finance that we will establish a procedure whereby the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees will be informed by the Directorate of Fisheries when vessels are deleted from the register. I am also prepared to make changes to the legislation to make it more difficult to drive pure recreational craft into the brand register. The Directorate for Fisheries has for some time worked on a regulatory proposal such as: will link entry in the trademark register to maritime authority safety requirements for fishing vessels. The Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees will be given the opportunity to make recordings before the proposal is sent to the hearing. The Fisheries Directorate informs that they intend to submit the proposal to the hearing with the first. I am confident that the measures outlined will help further strengthen the management’s control of the non-circumvention of the legislation in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1161	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. It is positive that stricter requirements are imposed and that the Council of State takes this seriously. It was one of the directorate’s inspectors who pointed out the unculture that was, and the Director of Fisheries also confirmed that there were recreational boats registered in the brand register. There may be disagreements about the number — how many hundreds of them can be; the Council of State mentioned hundreds of them. That's not what I think is the most serious thing. What's serious is that you can find loopholes to register your recreational boats as fishing boats. The council says she'll look at this, and I think that's positive. It is important that the directorate knows the difference between a recreational boat and a fishing boat. Whether there are hundreds or thousands of boats, it doesn't matter to me. But how could it have happened that these have managed to get through?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1172	It could have happened in several ways. First of all, I don't ignore the fact that someone is trying to cheat. It's going to hit it hard anyway. That's why you have that review of the trademark register every year. It is relatively easy to see differences between pure recreational craft and clean fishing vessels. I travel a lot on the coast, and I see that there are actually boats that you can call a combined vessel – i.e. vessels that are used for fishing, but that are also quite OK to go with. It's not forbidden. The fact that the fishermen have boats in which it is okay to live – here is the talk of living on board the boats – and that the boats are arranged in such a way that it is possible to live there, I have no problems with. What I'm having problems with is what's purely a violation of the law. Now we're doing everything we can to seal the loopholes to get in and not least to clean up what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1179	I fully agree with the Council of State: a combined vessel must be possible. It must be possible to use the fishing boat during leisure time. But what's obvious is that some boats don't have room for fishing equipment. They have a pool and a little bit of each other, and there is no room for catching because there are so many cabins under the deck. They're the ones that exploit the system. I think it's important to point out that this doesn't work, because this is going to sponsor, to use the state's money to sponsor pleasure boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1184	There's Andersen Eide and I are in complete agreement. Pure recreational craft have nothing to do with this register. That is why we are clearing out those who are there, as well as notifying the tax authorities, so that it actually has consequences to try to ensnare in here. That's new. Furthermore, we are tightening up the entrance, making it even more difficult to try to cheat, precisely by looking at the legislation from the Maritime Directorate attached to fishing vessels up against this register.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1194	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘After the introduction of new citizenship law, a relatively large number of people residing in Norway, with a permanent residence permit, have been refused their application for Norwegian citizenship, justified on the grounds of doubt as to their identity. Last summer the Ministry sent out proposals for consultation to amend the Citizenship Act/Regulation with the October 2009 consultation deadline. How far has the Government come to work, when will a new bill come to Stortinget, and will the Council of State give priority to this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1203	The Ministry submitted to the representative a proposal for a number of amendments to the Civil Code and the Civil Code at the hearing on 25 June 2009. Some of the regulatory changes have already been made and the changes have entered into force. One of the proposals contained in the letter of consultation was the one on which the representative is concerned, namely the introduction of specific rules relating to the conditions of identity of the national law on children. In other words, there are children who have been cut off from the possibility of acquiring Norwegian citizenship because their parents have not clarified their identity. The Ministry also asked the hearing bodies to consider whether a special rule should be introduced for applicants of Norwegian citizenship over 18 years of age with a long residence and not a clear identity. The Ministry asked for input into and against the introduction of such a legislative change and, where appropriate, how such a provision should be designed. This consultation round has shown that in the case of children who are not deemed to have identified identity, there is a relatively broad consensus that legislative changes are necessary. On other issues, feedback in the consultation round has been shared. There are a number of hearing bodies that have been positive about introducing a special rule for people over 18 years of age. Other hearing bodies have been negative about the introduction of such a special rule. Irrespectives include: In consultation opinions delivered by the Ministry of Justice and Police, by the Police Security Service and by the Police Directorate. I am now committed to finding a solution that, on the one hand, both meets the needs of society to know people's identity, which I believe is a broad political consensus that is important, and society's need for security and crime prevention. On the other hand, it is important, as the representative is concerned, that society includes persons who have a permanent residence permit, by giving these citizens the opportunity to become Norwegian citizens. I am in dialogue with the Minister of Justice and Police on these issues on the basis of the consultation round. Of course, it is currently too early to say anything about conclusions on this matter, and also when the bill on changes to the Civil Code can be promoted for the Stortinget. But what I can assure the representative is that this work is a priority for me and my department, and that I agree with the representative's emphasis on the importance of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1214	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think perhaps the most important signal that could be given today was just the last state council said that he is concerned about this, and that he will give priority to this work. This is a group of people who have been waiting a long time. It is a crossroads of thought that in Norway we have a small group growing up who have inherited the sin of their parents. So here we're talking about some kind of inherited sin, right, that goes for generations. In the worst case, this can also affect the next generation, i.e. grandchildren. These are children who grow up without the same rights as children with Norwegian citizenship: the right to vote, the right to a career in the police or in the military. They cannot even choose to take education abroad. They're waiting for an answer. I hope that the department doesn't have to spend a very long time, but that they can prioritize this, so that it gets in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1223	That's an consideration that I naturally also care about. It is important to be able to provide security around the provisions that apply to these people. At the same time, I am sure that the representative will also agree with me that when we present something, it is important that there is something that is sustainable over time and that just ensures such security. That is why, on the one hand, I am concerned about driving this forward as quickly as possible, but on the other hand, I am also concerned about providing something that both gets support in this room, and that can stand over time. And I want to spend the time that is needed to get it done. This is a problem that affects a good number of people in Norway. In 2007, 287 applications for Norwegian citizenship were rejected because the requirement for a clear identity was not met. In 2008, the number was 857, and last year the number was 774 – so there's a not insignificant number of people in this situation. So I agree that there are two slightly different assessments regarding the group over the age of 18 and children. We're going to go into both of them with full weight, but there's some special considerations we have to take to children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1232	I have a great deal of understanding that time needs to be spent, and that the Council of State feels the need to come to Stortinget with a matter that it can be widely agreed on. I fully agree with that. As I said, the Council of State has today given an important signal to this group – which both he and I have met – that he will give priority to this work. I think that's great, and I think I'll be welcomed in a positive way there too. As we have also mentioned, this people who have received a permanent residence permit, but still they go around and feel half welcome. They're working, they're contributing to the community, and they're paying taxes, but they just feel half welcome. Especially bad things happen when it comes to the next generation. So I want the Council of State to be happy to have a click on this case and look forward to getting a case in Stortinget, so we can solve this for a not insignificant group of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1241	It is my hope that we will be able to come up with something that can both improve the rights and meet the needs of this group, while, of course, we also have to take this seriously. Not least those of us who are concerned that we should be able to have a rough and reasonable asylum and immigration policy, but I know that both the representative and I are concerned that we need to be very clear on what is about cheating with identity. Of course, it is also important to me that we should not undermine the work we are doing in combating the detention of identity. As far as the group that has been in Norway for a long time is concerned, I fully agree that clarification is needed. We have sent out proposals in the consultation round that we are now going through very carefully, and it is a priority matter for me to carry this forward until the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1252	‘Norwegian Foster Home Association and the Swedish Children’s Protection Association recently presented a report on the Child Protection Supervisors’ Scheme, which shows that in many cases the scheme works very poorly. Reports from the municipalities to the county councillors show that the municipalities per On 31 December 2008, supervisors of 680 children were absent. 30 per cent of the children in charge did not receive supervision in accordance with the requirements of the law. What will the Council of State do to ensure full coverage of supervisors and to enhance the quality of the scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1259	It is worrying that several foster children are missing supervisors. Under the Children’s Protection Act, all children in foster homes are entitled to have a supervisor appointed. The municipality is responsible for recruiting and appointing the supervisor for children in foster homes, and regional child protection is responsible for assisting municipalities in providing training to supervisors. I am familiar with the report of the Norwegian Foster Home Association and the National Children's Protection Association, to which the representative Håbrek refers. I share the representative's concern that some children are not given the appointment of the supervisor. These are vulnerable and vulnerable children with a special need for follow-up and supervision, which also gives us a special responsibility to make sure they get it. The municipalities state that they per A total of 6 799 children were responsible for supervision on 31 December 2008. Reports from the municipalities show that 89 pst. of these foetuses had supervisors. An explanation that we don't have 100 pst. coverage of supervisors is that some foster homes are completely new and therefore the municipality has not yet been able to provide supervisors. The municipality is also responsible for the emergency placement of children in emergency shelters, and these children are also entitled to be appointed supervisors. Such acute placements are often so short-lived that no supervisor is established. However, this does not fully explain why not all children in foster homes have been appointed supervisors. In addition, when the reports show that 30 pst. by the children who had the supervisor did not receive supervision in accordance with the requirements of the law, it is, in my opinion, very serious. Many counties have, through their supervision, stressed whether the municipality has appointed a sufficient number of supervisors. The County will focus on this in the future as well. Through the cooperation agreement we have with KS on child protection, the Ministry is now in continuous dialogue on foster homes and the supervisory system. I will continue to ask the KS to use the tools they have to get the municipalities to give priority to the work of recruiting supervisors. I'm going to send a letter to the municipalities of the country to inform them about the report of the Norwegian Foster Home Association and the National Children's Protection Association. In that letter, I will stress the requirement of the Child Protection Act to appoint all children as supervisors, and that supervisors should supervise the child as often as necessary, and at least four times a year. The county offices will also be able to use this in the supervision they have over the municipalities in order to monitor their compliance with their statutory obligations in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1272	It's a very serious question we're discussing, because precisely the children who have been taken care of have also been subjected to one of the most serious interventions we can do in a person's life. The more responsible we have as authorities to ensure that it is an oversight. I'm glad the Council of State has continued to work with the supervisory board. But I have to say that I am very concerned and worried that the Council of State again responds with vague, unclear objectives, and refers to continuous dialogue and work to solve the problems without clear deadlines. An overall opposition has requested a stepping-up plan for full child-resistance coverage. So far, the government didn't want to get on the road with it. When does the Council of State come up with a comprehensive strategy with clear deadlines for full coverage both in the area of supervisors and otherwise in the area of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1281	There have been significant developments in the last few months, both in terms of supervision, with the overall responsibility of the State Health Authority, and the clear leadership in the exercise of supervision in terms of frequency and more emphasis on what the children themselves say. So now the recruitment of supervisors is constantly under way, and it's a challenge in the municipalities. So in this area, a lot of the instruments are on the municipal side. How much government we need in the field of child protection is a discussion of our own. It's a discussion that I and the representative have had before. I've been very clear that if we can't get the results we're going to have through the dialogue we have with the municipalities about everything from staffing child protection to the number of supervisors, we have to go through the tools and see if we can get stronger instruments from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1288	I do not doubt the intentions of the Council of State to try to achieve results on the challenges of child protection, but it is worrying when we look seriously at the situation up against and within the supervisory regime. We understand that the Council of States has a continuous dialogue and is working towards solving the problems, but no one can know about or deal with these problems, for example. the number of supervisors shall be unsolved in five years, over ten years, over one generation, or shall never be targeted. Governments are not willing to set clear and clear targets for full coverage and to set clear deadlines for their work. It's a significant challenge. My question would also be: What will the Council of State do with the content of the supervisory system, which the report points to, in terms of professionalisation, change of status, responsibilities, etc., and in order to enhance quality and not just increase the number of supervisors?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1297	I think it's defensive to operate with plans for where we're going to be in five or ten years, because I'm concerned that we don't accept these relationships here and now. Therefore, I contact the municipalities to say that I expect it to be cleaned up in this – not tomorrow, but now. The most important thing we can do now is put the municipalities in charge. It is a very clear responsibility they have under the law, both in terms of obtaining supervisors and ensuring that supervision works. Then we also have to have a discussion about how we provide professional quality in supervision. There is also a question that the report deals with, and that is a discussion that I look forward to going into. The Ministry has, among other things: published a guide clarifying the role and responsibilities of supervisors. We have clear leadership vis-à-vis municipalities in terms of their responsibility for training supervisors. Then we have a challenge related to recruitment that we have to go in and look at. We have to look at both the tools we can provide, and what kind of work the municipalities actually do. There's a lot of variation. What we can do that is most effective in the short term is to make the municipalities follow up the responsibility they actually have to do something about the situation – not tomorrow, but today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1304	We go back to the questions 1-4. Before I give the floor to the representative Svein Harberg, I would like to draw the Stortinget's attention to the fact that Stortinget has now been given a record. Therefore, it will be necessary for the Storting to be decision-making when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1312	I will then ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘On 1 January 2010, the interest-rate compensation scheme for schools was extended to private schools. Allocation guidelines have not been put in place. The House Bank uses ‘proposals for guidelines’ in response to applications, which appear to be shaped so that it is virtually impossible for a new approved private school to be included in the scheme. Who has made the leadership for the requirements to be imposed on private drivers and does the Council feel the proposal for guidelines reflects the schools to which the scheme is to apply?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1321	In the 2010 government budget, the Government of the Grand Duchy stated that changes would be made to the rules for the interest compensation scheme for municipalities and county municipalities. As the representative pointed out, the change means that municipalities and county councils can apply to the House Bank for interest compensation for the rehabilitation of school buildings, on behalf of private schools entitled to state subsidies, religious communities or non-profit institutions which rent out premises to private schools entitled to state subsidies. So it is the municipality or county that is going to apply on behalf of a private school and also prioritize whether a private school should be able to attend. The scheme does not allow private schools that rent premises from commercial operators to apply for interest compensation. The primary reason for this is that the responsibility for maintaining and rehabilitating lies with building owners. No interest compensation may be applied for for investment in new buildings or swimming facilities for private schools. With this change, the government has met the private schools, so that some can get help to rehabilitate their school buildings. The House Bank is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The extension of the interest-rate compensation scheme to private schools has been followed up by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in the 2010 letter of entrustment to the Husbank dated 15 February 2010. Furthermore, this has been followed up by a regulation of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of 17 December 2009 on compensation for interest on investments in school and swimming facilities from the Husbank, where additional provisions have been made for private schools. Under the regulation, the Husbanken may provide detailed guidelines for the implementation of the interest-rate compensation scheme. This work is under way, but the guidelines have not yet been adopted. It must be stressed that the system is governed by the regulation and that the guidelines will only complement it. As far as I am aware, the Husbank has received only one enquiry where a private manager of a school asked for guidance on the interest compensation scheme. The bank informed about the arrangements and informed that the guidelines had not yet been adopted. There is also no basis for believing that the scope of private schools within the scheme will be particularly large. However, I would like to clarify that although private schools are included in the scheme, the financial framework for the scheme has not changed. This implies that it is the individual municipality or county that has to decide for itself whether they wish to prioritise rehabilitation projects at private schools within their allocated investment framework. The priority of private schools is not the responsibility of the state, and therefore we must accept that municipalities and county councils can choose to give priority to the rehabilitation of their own schools rather than projects at private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1334	I thank you for your answer. It corresponds to what I suggested in my question. The background to my question is the unfairness I think it lies in the fact that there are completely different demands made on the individuals than on the local authorities. So a municipality or county municipality can rent premises with whom they want and get part of the interest compensation scheme. A private school can't, because then there are completely different rules. What's going to be the challenge is when someone gets a new school approved, starts going, and this school is evolving, and they're going to move on. It is then unreasonable to expect them to own the premises themselves or to commit to a 20-year lease with a surrender obligation to help them obtain good premises. How important does the Council of State feel that the owner or owner of the building is for the learning outcomes of the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1341	Here, an attempt has been made to achieve a fair balance that would allow some private schools to rehabilitate under this scheme, but at the same time take into account that what is provided by state subsidies should not contribute to building private assets. There is an important balance to go for good arrangements, and this is a good and very popular arrangement in the municipalities. I think we've managed to find a reasonable balance point. If the representative believes that there should be arrangements for government grants, or loan schemes that contribute to the significant build-up of values that are on private hands, then I disagree. The balance sheet found here is a reasonable balance sheet to ensure that private schools can also have acceptable school buildings. Now I can also tell you that we expect to have these guidelines completed in a very short time, and it's not a very long queue of private schools that have been in doubt about what's going on. I think we're going to give clear signals in a couple of months now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1350	The last was to the extent that one of my follow-up questions – about when we can expect the guidelines to be in place. Then we hope they'll be in place soon. I think this is going to be weird. I agree that state subsidies should not contribute to building up private capital. A search shall be avoided. What's becoming unreasonable here is that this doesn't interfere with private capital, it interferes with the locations and learning venues of students who go to a recognised school. I had hoped that the Council of State saw the unreasonableness of the fact that once a school has been approved, and thus has approved education, the possibilities are limited because it is owned and operated by private individuals, and does not have a public owner. This is unreasonable and wrong, and I hope therefore that the Council of State will look into it. But I realize that it's not the will because it can have the consequence that someone could make money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1357	It is important that we take care of what is the community's money and not hand them out generously. There has been a balancing exercise here just to see what can be done with the maintenance needs in private schools, but in such a way that at the same time you take care that the public funds you have are not distributed generously to the private owners. Now private owners will also benefit from this scheme, even if it is not as generous as the representative wants. The guidelines that are coming complement the principles that already exist for the scheme, so of course they will not change what are the main principles here, but they will clarify what is the device on it. So I hope that in a reasonably short time we'll be able to get more clarity about what's going on, and rather get the discussion about how to set it up, move on between the Right and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1367	‘According to the Evening Post on 28 March, 1,600 teachers have applied for 2,500 vacancies for further education in mathematics and languages. Raising the competence of teachers in key subjects is essential in order to improve the learning outcomes of students and achieve the objectives of the Knowledge Lift. What will the Council of State do to help more teachers make use of the further training services provided by universities and higher education institutions at the request of central education authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1374	The State contribution to the further training of teachers takes place through the «Quality Competence» strategy. This strategy aims at providing a permanent system of continuing training of teachers. It has been developed in cooperation with the KS, the teacher organisations and the University and Higher Education Council. The Parties shall stand back and actively contribute to the implementation of this Strategy. I am disappointed with the number of people we have received from the fall. The number of 1,600 registered teachers, to which it refers, is associated with uncertainty, of course, but I'm not satisfied that we haven't already filled 2,500 places. Now I'm going to have to hurry up and say there's 1,000 inside the system already, so what we're talking about is the ones that come to the top. It's great with those who are now taking the step out and applying for further education, but our ambitions were greater than that. We have therefore already taken action to increase participation within the framework we have, and in agreement with the parties, it is agreed that everyone should follow up their own responsibilities through the Strategy Paper. In particular, intensification of information work shall be undertaken through the channels available to the parties in order to enable more school owners to report to teachers for further education. Furthermore, there is an extended possibility for school owners to apply for a place of rest. The school owners are responsible for selecting and applying for participation. I'm aware that some school owners think it's too expensive to participate in the permanent system. It is important to remember that continuing training of high quality and of one year’s duration costs more than short-term follow-up training. In addition, it is necessary to cover part of the temporary work costs in order for the teachers involved to do so, and that those who do not have a financial opportunity to take a free year or who do not have the working capacity to study in their spare time can do so. Now the costs for the municipalities are not as unreasonable as it may seem. Further training with 60 credits for a teacher in mathematics at the youth level costs a municipality approx. NOK 225 000. If the teacher is 40 and maybe works for 25 more years at school, that further education will cost 450 kroner per year. pupils throughout their childhood. 450 kroner per year. Student is a low price to pay if it means you get a better qualified teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1387	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The promise of knowledge should also be a promise for Norwegian teachers. It is an absolute short-term human resources policy if, with the new reform, we fail to achieve this with the Knowledge promise, which has been laid down to help teachers. We see that the offer is there, the market is there, because seven out of ten teachers answer that they believe they need professional filling in order to do the best possible job. Obviously, then we can't live with a situation where over a third of the places might be empty. Then we do not get the pace of continuing education that is absolutely necessary if we are to raise the quality of Norwegian school, and if we are to motivate Norwegian teachers to do an even better job. I hear what the Council of State says, but we know that it is particularly critical in terms of competence in real science. Has there been any assessment by the State of grant schemes or other measures to fill the places?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1396	I believe that the challenge is not the desire of the teachers to take advantage of these offers, which the representative Aspaker has to offer, but rather the desire of municipalities to stop. Some states are very eager to avail themselves of the offer, and have municipalities that set up and pay the temporary costs. Elsewhere, we know that that's an argument for not using the scheme. The municipality must cover 40 pst. Of these temporary costs, and I have, of course, also been concerned about whether we should make a different distribution on it. However, I think it is wise that the municipality that the employer sees that lifting skills is a very important part of being a responsible employer. There should be a spice layer where both the State, the individual and the municipality contribute. But now we're going to go rounds to see how we can make sure that the spaces that we already have and that are at our disposal can be exploited, and then we'll figure out the status when we see what the final result is, and see if there are some things about this system that should... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1405	It sounds good that the Council of State says that new rounds are going with the KS, but the time is running out, and there are not many months for these teachers to sit on the school bench. When can you expect to know if it is possible to fill these places, and will the Council of State in any way help to re-distribute places? I hear that in a way that is what she might say – can it then be relocated, so that municipalities that may not have the funds to fill the places they might have planned this year will have an opportunity to correct it in the next year's budget, and perhaps then can get more places in the academic year starting in 2011? So the question is, do you now have a system that is so flexible that municipalities that can afford it can get more places this year, and that municipalities that this year don't do it can double up, or better counting, to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1412	The answer to the first question is at least yes, because restetorg means that municipalities that have had a desire to have more places have the opportunity to use the places that are there. So the question is how do we allocate the places that we have the year after that? I'll get back to that then. But I expect that I have such a good overview of this that it is possible to give an overview to the Stortinget in connection with the 2011 budget. There you can see how to move on with this, because further education and training are an extremely important part of the Knowledge promise, and we know that good and competent teachers are the key to success in all the goals we have now set ourselves in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1420	I ask the Minister for Knowledge the following questions: ‘More organisations offer school classes so-called peace travel. Because of the free principle, such trips are arranged by parent groups. The value of the trips will be significantly increased if the classes are able to deal with the problem in advance. Many teachers refuse this. They refer to a circular from the department, and the fear of being accused of pressure on the students. Repeated debates have updated attitudes towards young people. Will the Council of State support teachers to carry out such preparation at school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1429	I would first like to stress that the free principle does not mean that you should not be able to arrange school trips under the direction of the school. School leaders, teachers, parents and students today have a wide range of opportunities to organise and take voluntary initiatives that can contribute to school trips that contribute to increased motivation and learning. I know that many students, parents and teachers around Norway make many hours of voluntary effort to get this done, and the trips can be a valuable part of the training. It is important that everyone is given the opportunity to participate, regardless of how good parental advice is. The question suggests that some parent groups choose to join forces to arrange joint trips for their children on vacation. It's about, for example, on peace travel, where themes such as holocaust, anti-discrimination and human rights are at the heart. It is quite obvious that it is part of what is going to be included in the training, among other things. history and social sciences. Of course, there is nothing to prevent training in these subjects from being used as part of pre-work before such a trip. At the same time, however, it is important to provide for training to be organised in such a way that students who are not to participate in the trip also benefit from training on these subjects, in order to organise these trips in order to address the question of the free principle. We can't have a public school targeting those parts of the students in a class who can afford to be on a trip on vacation, while those who can't afford not get in. Thus, the question that each teacher and school has to decide on: How do you balance it? But I guess there's so much sense and sense around in School-Norway that you find good balances that don't run a purely tour-preparing training, but the themes can be part of the training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1440	It's true, as the Council of State says, that it can also be arranged in school. Now it's probably part of another debate, about how much free money you have to arrange such tours. This is why the results have often been as the Council of State says, that parent groups arrange, and so they do in vacations. That's just the balance that we often feel falling on the wrong side. Teachers refuse because they should not be accused of exerting pressure. So they use a previous circular from the department to say, "We're not going to interfere with this." My follow-up question to the Council of State is precisely based on some of the issues that have arisen in the media image on anti-semitism, etc. Is it natural for the Council of State to send a circular, clarifying the possibilities, and that it is important to make good use of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1449	I don't think it's the themes that teachers refuse, because they're extremely important, especially when we get examples of anti-Semitic attitudes in some individual students. There is one thing I follow up in another way as well. But that's the situation. You're facing a class and you know that someone on their vacation is going to participate in a rather expensive journey, while other students in the same class can't afford to attend. What, then, about a theme and a class tour? That balance course is a bit demanding to go, but I'm pretty sure you'll be able to achieve it pretty much. I promise no new circular here and now. I think it's pretty much solved with reason and wisdom around in School-Norway. Even I have not received any direct enquiries, as far as I can remember, about this particular issue. But let me keep a little alert look at it. The balance sheet I think they're doing pretty much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1456	I believe that she has not been contacted and that she believes that the balance is there. Our feedback is different. I've been around checking out a lot of schools and some principals, and it's obviously a problem. Then maybe it's a little bit country-focused. We've got per cent. today, a couple of major actors organising such trips. Much is done in relation to those regions, even if they are well spread. The last question of follow-up is a bit of what the Council of State was about, the debate on antisemitism. The Council of State said that she would set up a group to look at concrete actions that could be put in place. The question then is: will the Council consider taking the organisers of these trips, who have a great competence and experience in talking about these matters, into such a group to look at measures that could involve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1463	We are currently discussing the mandate and composition of a working group that can get on with concrete advice to School-Norway on how to deal with this. Commercial actors who arrange such a type of travel, I have not considered as members of such a group. But that does not mean that it is not interesting to follow up and have contact with them, because they have a lot of people who have signed up for service, and it is very, very positive. Too many people are able to put them in a working group. So I imagine that the working group needs to have contact with environments outside of itself, but we also need to give them some freedom of action as to how it makes sense to work in a relatively short period of time, because we need to get advice quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1471	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘15. Last December, the Time Use Committee presented its report with a series of recommendations on actions that can help the school and teachers to spend more of their time on their main task — the knowledge mission. The Minister of Knowledge then promised to review the proposals and come back with measures to improve time use in school. What changes can Norwegian teachers and school leaders expect from coming school years that can help them to spend more time with their students and for education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1480	The Time Management Committee report was received by me on 15 December 2009. It was an important work that was done, which has been requested from School-Norway in making clear recommendations on how to clean up what is the most important resource in school, namely the time spent by teachers – that is what we are talking about. There were a number of measures, 90 measures, some targeting the state level, a lot of targeting school owners, and a lot of targeting the school level itself, and the report shows that there is an unison consensus in School Norway that we have to try to clear up so that teachers can spend time on what is their core task: preparing for learning, working with learning, evaluating learning and giving good feedback. That is why I have decided not to provide the most comprehensive big message Stortinget has received, but nevertheless a big message about the timing committee. It'll be here before summer. It goes through the advice given by the Time Usage Committee to us who are involved in knowledge policy at national level, but also to those who are given to school owners and at school level, because I want us, government and greatness, to be conscious of the use of time and suggestions that we make, because it is often so that we can come up with good ideas and are not aware of how much time they can take locally, that the same call goes to school owners and to schools. That's how I want us to systematically follow up the recommendations that are coming. But since there are 90 proposals, I would like to come back to this small, effective, but important message in order to simply send out some of the things that have been asked intensely by teachers, school owners and principals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1487	It is improper for many to believe that the school should be in good service, and the Time Use Committee pointed to all these action plans. I think I have to be so honest to say that I may also have contributed to some of those action plans, and that the sum of them is such that the school is about to break its back in relation to its actual mission. So here it's important to clear out what the school isn't supposed to deal with, but not in such a way that it's not important for these things to be debated in society. However, I also believe that the parents here are very important in relation to all the good school should do, but I think that leisure and family also have to be part of. So I think it is positive that the Council of State now says that she will come to Stortinget with a big message, but I have the following follow-up questions: is there also a discussion there of what the family and society outside are going to contribute to in relation to all the tasks that the school has been reading today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1492	It really sticks very tightly to what is the receipt of recommendations from the Time Management Committee, and it is very tempting to bring in several kinds of issues. For one thing, what is the responsibility of parents, another thing is that it is clear that the school, because it is an arena that gathers all children, is tempting to use as a mailbox for all good intentions in a society, and there is no action plan in any area that is not important. However, an approach to this, as the Time Use Committee also mentions, is that we can say in a health field, or it is about diet or advice in other areas – which is important for schoolchildren to have, but one should not put it as a task at the top of all the tasks that teachers have before – well imagine not to see whether other types of professional groups, health sister function, for example, other types of professional groups, in addition to what is parental responsibility, can come in and do some of that work. So my hope is that we can manage to achieve a fairly broad consensus in the Storting on this, because there will never be initiatives for action plans that are not important, and therefore it will also require a common position to say no to some action plans. I hope I can get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1497	I hear what the council says, but I think it's important that we get a big message that also says something about how to do the problems that the school shouldn't have, because if not, I'm afraid that this room is going to think again that the problems are so important that you're going to say again that the school has to try to solve these things as well. But management at all levels is one of the key issues of the Time Usage Committee. Management, management, management was probably the headline of a lot of newspapers after Kolle Grondahl had presented the selection exhibition, and I'm kind of worried if there's going to be a big deal for the summer that might be treated in the Storting to the fall, and then there's kind of a new school year going on. Is there none of the time-use committee measures that are of such a nature that one can say that we are simply doing it, because there is such a broad consensus about the importance of it that you don't have to waste a new school year clarifying what the Storting almost thinks is a matter of course?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1504	Yes, and there is no need to wait for a big message either, or that the Storting will treat it. There are a lot of good suggestions in the Time Usage Committee that you can only get started right away, and I know that's what I'm doing. For example, when it comes to management. put a lot more into focus what we can do to rust up the principals and offer training to them. Class management is another part of it. It starts with new teacher training for the autumn. So my intention to present such a big message is really that the Storting and we will be centrally also interested in the time use at school and back up the way we can do it. I have introduced a time test in relation to proposals that we want to come up with to make ourselves aware of what is the most important resource in school, the time of the teacher. Many things are already going on, and are going to get going quickly, so I'm really looking forward to the Storting being, what to say, giving back coverage for priorities in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1509	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-21.ana.ud1911e1557	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
