ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e36	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e58	The issue we are going to discuss here concerns the interest compensation scheme for church buildings, a scheme established in 2005. In 2009, a framework for the interest-rate compensation scheme of EUR 1,2 billion was adopted. kr, and with the commitment in 2009 to interest compensation for investments equivalent to 700 million. Thus, the government proposes to transfer the undisposed investment framework in 2009, approximately 500 million. until 2010, which requires a decision here in Stortinget. An overall committee has noted that many churches are due to years of unhindered refurbishment and maintenance, and that there is still a great need for measures to improve the maintenance and repair of church buildings. A Joint Committee also considers that maintenance efforts should be stepped up in order to avoid the loss and disappearance of irreplaceable cultural taxes. In the opinion of the Committee, church buildings are an important part of our common cultural history and heritage, while representing important meeting places in the community. The interest-rate compensation scheme, as the Committee sees it, is an important incentive for municipalities to make efforts to maintain and repair these important cultural and signal buildings. It is underlined that the municipalities have the financial responsibility for the maintenance and operation of church buildings. However, the interest-rate compensation scheme gives municipalities good opportunities to resume the maintenance phase, and the Committee is concerned that it is important to reach the municipalities and joint councils with information on the scheme, so that even more municipalities use the interest-rate compensation scheme. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the view that the unused investment framework in 2009 was approximately 0.5 B.C.E. NOK is transferred to 2010. A minority in the Committee would nevertheless point out that the economy of municipalities is in many places very hard work, which means that funds that should be earmarked for the maintenance and maintenance of church buildings are easily pushed on. It is important to be aware that there are few – if any – others building it that are so strong feelings of both sorrow and joy as our church buildings. So these buildings represent something more than just cultural history. The minority of the Committee therefore considers that it is also a State responsibility to provide the necessary safeguards relating to fire and theft for church buildings of national, historical and cultural interest. The Christian People's Party is also of the opinion that there is a need for a much more offensive effort to build churches, and where the state contribution must be proportionate to such offensive efforts. As I said, the church buildings represent a value that is worth taking care of. That there are strong feelings about these buildings, we see not least when something as tragic as church fire occurs. Only this year, two churches have burned to the ground – earlier this year the Church of Henefoss, and now just before the weekend the Church of Kopervik on Karmøy. Personally, I know this and what it does to a community when a church is exposed to fire. I worked as the chapel of the Gjerpen Church in Skien, which was exposed to fire in 2003 – the same year the church celebrated its 850th anniversary. I learned that there are really strong feelings about such a building. It's more than just a saying; it's very real. In order to ensure even better against such tragic events, the matter we are dealing with today becomes important, and I hope that the information about this scheme will lead to a much more offensive effort around the municipalities in terms of securing and maintaining these important buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e77	Now the case-speaker, Mr. Beckevold, has been in the business for the most part. As has been said, it is one of the most cohesive committees behind the conclusion and decision in this matter. But there are slightly different comments from the different parties. For the Progress Party, this is an important matter. As mentioned, this system was established in 2005. She was established in the context of negotiations between the Progress Party and the Bondevik Party. There was a demand from the Advance Party that an interest compensation scheme for church buildings be introduced so that we would make a settlement with the then ruling parties. Luckily, we got that. This has become a success. The amount has also increased in recent years, and we think it is good. But now there's a problem that it's raised 1.2 billion. NOK initially, while only 700 million has been used. kr. 500 million. So kr is transferred to 2010. This does not mean that there is no need for such funds, but unfortunately it suggests that the municipalities have very poor finances. When this important incentive, such as the interest-rate compensation scheme, is not used, it suggests that municipalities are struggling very hard to get the ends to meet. There's something we have to take seriously. It is also in other areas of maturity. Other municipal buildings, such as shrouds, fall into ruins. There are also quite serious revelations that indicate that infrastructure, such as water and sewage, is falling and that it is not maintained as it should be. This is something the Progress Party will continue to work with, and we will propose further strengthening of the local economy. We will also propose assessed interest-rate compensation schemes in different areas, in order to improve the maintenance of the various areas, both in terms of the repair of church buildings and other municipal buildings, and also of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e88	The rapporteur has explained the scheme. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that has endorsed the proposal that has been put forward. However, let me make a few comments. I feel that there is a great deal of attention about securing and refurbishment of our church buildings, both locally and centrally. Sad events like what we saw on Friday with the Kopervik Church are contributing to that. What is important to say about the Kopervik Church is that, after I was informed, that church was secured – fire alarm systems were installed in the church. But that does not mean that it is not important that we focus on such schemes in the future as well. That's why it's good that we get the interest compensation scheme that this is proposed. In the opinion, the Committee stresses the importance of reaching out to the scheme information so that it can be used as much as possible. I agree. We have sent out a circular to municipalities and church councils and announced the expanded investment framework in 2010, subject to the decision to be taken in the Stortinget today. My impression is that the scheme is reasonably well known and that it is actively used. So even though not the entire investment framework of 1.2 billion. kr was used in 2009, an investment compensation grant of a total of 700 million has been granted. kr. It's a higher amount than it's been in previous years. So the demand is great. I assume that several of them have safety and repair projects during planning in the municipalities, and that the framework of the year can be used to realize these projects. The state’s contribution is based on the fact that the municipalities have the legal responsibility for the building maintenance of the churches. The interest-rate compensation scheme is a government incentive scheme. The responsibility for the maintenance of church buildings lies just as fully with the municipalities, I believe it is important to maintain this. I mention that the state has also contributed, in other ways, over several years, to the financing of measures that stimulate the good administration of the churches. Examples are the establishment of a central insurance system for churches and a church-building database, which is an appropriate tool for church owners in the ongoing operation and management of church buildings. The stave churches are being established by means of a separate programme under the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I believe that the most important way to go to enable the municipalities to carry out their statutory task towards church buildings is to work for general improvement of the municipal economy. There has been a significant strengthening of the local economy in recent years. There have been significant results in the maintenance of the churches, in combination with the interest-rate compensation scheme. The level of investment and refurbishment of church buildings shows a doubling from 2006 to 2008, ranging from between 200 and 300 million. SEK in 2006 to between 500 and 600 million. kr in 2008. Since 2005, when the interest-rate compensation scheme was introduced, nearly one third of the churches in the country have been committed to interest-rate compensation for various types of refurbishment and hedging projects. Through the extended framework of the 2010 scheme, it is my hope that even more churches can be properly repaired and secured. Then we get back to the need for the scheme, in new budget rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e105	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3563]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e121	The main objective of the ISA programme, as it has been for the previous programmes, is to strengthen pan-European electronic public services and infrastructure. Norwegian participation in the programme is important, inter alia: by enabling us to influence pan-European developments in this area and by bringing about valuable insights and competences. The Committee stresses the importance of developing pan-European ICT systems in order to streamline and optimise cross-border and cross-sectoral interactions. Norwegian participation in the programme introduced an amendment to Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. Inclusion also includes financial obligations for Norway over several years, at the base of 6 million. kr per year over a six-year period. It is therefore necessary with the consent of the Storting, and it is a consensual committee that joins the government's proposal. From the Norwegian side, it has been suggested that the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, should have the operational responsibility for Norwegian participation in the programme. Divi will also be the national contact point for the ISA programme, as it has been for the IDABC programme. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have some special comments on the matter, and I refer here to the setting. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence aligns itself with the position of the Committee on Transport and Communications without further comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e136	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3564]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e152	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 75 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 and State Council Berg-Hansen 5 minutes. The President has been informed that the Council of State will have five minutes of his party's speaking time, so that she will be listed with 10 minutes of speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e163	The position in this case is promoted by a majority of the Transport Committee, which consists of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. A minority proposal is available from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, which they themselves will explain. The government has in Prop. 81 S suggested postponing the case for further consideration of the submarine U-864 for an indefinite period. The government chooses in this case, as in a number of other cases, deferral as an instrument. Give this government a challenging case, and it chooses postponement! Suspension is justified by the need for new investigations. The result of deferral is more uncertainty and greater environmental risks. But in environmental matters, it is well known that this government is the best way to go — best of pointing out, of warning, of urging and of spending money on what others are going to do with themselves. Clean-up in your own shit comes back in the order of priority. What's wrong with this submarine? First of all, it is too far from Oslo. Had it been at Langesund or in the Oslofjorden, it would have been removed a long time ago. Secondly, the submarine U-864 is a ticking environmental bomb with 67 tonnes of mercury on board – mercury that has been lying in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland from 1945, stored in nearly 1,900 steel bottles. The water thaws on the bottles for each month running. Norwegian authorities have known about the cargo since 1999. It's been over ten years. The Progress Party believes that that side of the case should be followed both by the National Audit Board and by the Control and Constitutional Committee. So 10 years have passed since the Norwegian authorities were notified for the first time of the deadly load. There is also the possibility that there is uranium on board. The time spent by the government on more investigation, more evaluation and more bureaucratic and political summer meal is time that should have been spent lifting the submarine and removing mercury in the summer of 2011. It is fully sound and fully possible. Thirdly, the issue of this submarine is a demonstration in political samtomortal and double political communication. In January 2007, the government concluded that covering was the only sound solution – covering 67 tonnes of mercury. Raised was rejected as totally irresponsible. In March 2007, Prime Minister Stoltenberg, in connection with visits to the county annual meeting in the Hordaland Labour Party, said that ‘it is urgent to cover up’. Following the entry into the Stortinget in February 2007, then Minister for Fisheries and Coast Helga Pedersen said in April 2007 that, on the basis of the hearings on the matter, she would nevertheless seek a lifting. Quote from the press release to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast on 17 April 2007: ‘In the light of consultations in the United Kingdom where several actors have come up with new proposals for raising the submarine, more time is needed to investigate the lifting option’. In January, in the election year 2009, the then state council promised Helga Pedersen the lifting of the submarine. I quote from Aftenposten 29 January 2009: ‘The locals have had these boats as a gnag wound.’ – She spoke both of ‘Murmansk’ and of the submarine U-864. "We wouldn't repeat that story on Fedje," Pedersen said." She was asked, "How do you think the mood at Fedje is tonight? I think the mood is good today. I myself spoke to the rapporteur and got her reactions. I've been to Fedje and thought it was useful to be there and talk to people." And it's going to be repeated: ‘The local population has had these boats as a gnawing wound.’ I am afraid that the atmosphere at Fedje is not as good as in January 2009. I am afraid that the government's proposal, which unfortunately is adopted here in the Storting today, does not in any way remove the gnawing, but reinforces the pain through prolonged uncertainty. Let me also remind you of what Coastal Director Slotsvik said about the government's decision in 2009: ‘The decision places a decisive emphasis on the concern of the coastal population and the fishing industry related to a cover-up.’;» It is not often the Progress Party and the undersigned agree with Frederic Hauge in Bellona. In the evening post in January 2009, Hauge says: "We are very pleased, it is a great day. It is good that the government takes political responsibility." I agree with Bellona-Hauge in that assessment, but believe that he is not as satisfied after today's decision, which shows that the government will not take responsibility, but postpone the matter. It was therefore in March 2010 that the decision of the current State Council, the Minister for Fisheries, came to the effect that the government is postponing the matter. The proposal also states that full covering and partial covering of mercury shall be re-examined. The formula used is acceptable management, acceptable risk and acceptable cost. What does this mean? Is it so that, despite the insurance we've been getting along for three years now, it's not supposed to be on the money, it's actually on the money anyway? During the Stortinges Question Time last week, the Council of State said that she agreed with her Prime Minister, that the submarine is going up. On the same day as she said it, the day she was standing on the pulpit of the Stortinge, she had sent the last letter with answers to questions to the Transport Committee – it came to the Transport Committee at 0 p.m. Ten, eighteen. There it is repeated that one should uncover, in whole or in part. What does the Council of State really mean? It must be possible, I hope, to get a clearer expression through the debate here today. During the period from January 2007 to today, there has been a lot of political acrobatics and a lot of political double communication from the government, which justifies its postponement with the KS2 report on the project. The progress party is in favour of the quality assurance system, but we are obviously opposed to the content of the report when it appears that those who have been in charge of quality assurance have limited experience in operating quality assurance. Dovre Group does not have rescue experience. They've used a one-man company, South West Consult, to assess the technical and economic aspects of cancellation options. I've read the report from Dovre Group. The first section of the summary states: ‘The choice of concept is not subject to quality assurance’. However, Annex 7 of the report contains a note on ‘Assessment of method’, written by South West Consult. The Transport Committee has carried out consultations on the matter. I remind you that it was also done in 2007 – then we actually had two hearings. That time we had an open and listening state council, which brought with us new information. In this hearing held by the Transport Committee, new information has also emerged that removes the two main points – in our view – in the criticism addressed by the Dovre Group in the KS2 report. As regards the economy and contract, Mammoet has confirmed at the hearing that they will provide a price guarantee. The law firm Vogt & Wiig has confirmed that, through dialogue with the parties, a new contract proposal has been developed. The consultation has established that the project has reached its destination in terms of preparation. During the hearing, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs assured that the Coastal Agency has the necessary competence to manage such projects and that they will also be given additional competence if necessary. So both of these two main points from Dovre Group towards the project are actually cleared up. There is nothing left of the material content of the criticism. There is nothing that then stops the execution of the cancellation of U-864, as Mammoet has been given a preliminary mandate to do after a tendering round. It is only the policy that remains. What is now lacking is the political will of the government. In the view of the Progress Party, it is unnecessary, irresponsible and inadmissible if the government postpones the matter. Rises may, should and should be carried out in the summer of 2011, as the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party propose. The government will have a moon landing at Mongstad. It will take time and cost enormous amounts of money. Now a moonlifting is needed outside Mongstad. It may be done in 2011 at acceptable cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e232	The handling of the submarine U-864 and the pollution from the mercury cargo is a demanding and complex matter. The wreck was found outside Fedje in Hordaland in 2003. U-864 was hit in the middle section in the submerged state by a torpedo. The large bursting force has then destroyed the hull and split it into several pieces. These have fallen to the bottom of the sea and are spread over a larger area. During the explosion, the middle part of the keel was destroyed, leading to discharges of mercury around the wreck. The acter section is approximately 145 metres deep, while the front section is about 30 metres away, at a slope of 160–165 metres deep. On the seabed around the wreck, measurements of bottom sediment have recorded some high concentrations of mercury contamination. This means that even if a person gets up all the mercury that may be in the wreckage itself, extensive work must be done on the cleaning and/or covering of the seabed. About 30 measures of the seabed may be contaminated. The wreck total contained large quantities of metallic mercury when U-864 was torpedoed, perhaps as much as 67 tonnes. This is an extremely dangerous load, and the tolerance for error handling must be very strict. The submarine wreck and the surrounding seabed must be handled in an environmentally best possible way, for the sake of safety and the productive marine and coastal areas, but also for the consideration of people living along the coast. If all this mercury were to play out and go into the food chains, it would mean a serious tragedy to the whole way of life along our coast, and it would be very devastating for our reputation as an export-right seamate. We can't afford to expose the environment to the risk of a failure to cancel. The wrecks of U-864 were located in 2003 by the KNM ‘Tyr’. In retrospect, there have been many rounds of assessments of the best way to deal with the wreckage and mercury pollution. The longer the time goes on, the greater the risk of pollution increasing. The Norwegian Veritas has estimated that it is playing out about 3 kg of mercury from the wreck every year. It's not good, but it would be really crazy if 67,000 kg were to come out into the wild. The size and government have, in several ways, had the handling of U-864 for handling. On 29 January 2009, the government announced that it would agree to cancel the U-864, but also that an external quality assurance would be carried out. Dovre Group and the Transport Economic Institute have implemented the external quality assurance for the uplift of U-864. These companies are qualified by the Ministry of Finance to carry out this type of task. The KS2 report is very critical for the current cancellation project. The report indicates, among other things: that there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the state of the wreck, the physical properties of the seabed, the amount of mercury, the environmental criterion to be acceptable, and solutions for the management of the seabed following the lifting of the wreck itself. It is also pointed out that the development of methods and projects is short, depending on what is common at this stage of a project. The contract concluded with Mammoet Salvage is assessed in the report as unclear on several points. It is concluded that the project, based on the plans that are in place, is not well-prescribed and that there is a high risk associated with the scope of work, contract relationships and governance. Furthermore, the report states that there is doubt as to whether the project can be managed in a sufficiently controlled manner, which is also unfortunate in terms of safety and the environment. It is therefore advisable to proceed with the project with the ongoing contract. After the presentation of the proposal, there will be input from among others. Mammoet Salvage, who has been awarded the contract. It has also been the contact between the company and the Coastal Agency, which the Council of State has briefed Stortinget on. The adjustments made to the contract do not alter the wholeness of the picture given in the KS2 report. Most of the changes are in contractual and economic relationships. Without wanting to appear to be a legal expert, I would like to point out that in the law on offers, there are limits to the changes that can be made to a contract after the bidding process has ended. The lack of links with the design, planning, organisation and management of the project is still present, and in particular the KS2 report – on page 17 – in dealing with the management of the seabed after raising, gives cause for concern. Here it says, among other things.\t\t You can change ‘There is a high degree of uncertainty related to the treatment of seabeds after lifting, and significant changes in the work volume associated with this need to be expected.’ For the further follow-up, it is now recommended that a pre-project be carried out in line with the state project model. This will make it possible to split the scope of work in a more targeted way, and to use better tailor-made contract strategies. This will also provide better control-command. After the Size operation, work on the required layouts must start as soon as possible. The Government must come back to the Storting on matters in its own right, and the Government Party's comitology note states that information on the status and progress of the State budget in 2011 will be provided. By going deeper into the search for solutions, and – not least – going deeper into the quality assurance of the concepts selected, it is hoped to find good ways to apply the above. On the open hearing the Committee held on 27 April of this year, several interesting approaches emerged that would be well worth getting worked out. Methods were sketchily presented, ranging from the exclusive use of divers to find and retrieve mercury containers for the use of remote-controlled unmanned underwater vessels and more equipment-prescribed lifting methods. All these are interesting approaches that need to be drawn up more closely, and even if the present contract with Mammoet Salvage now has to be terminated, there is nothing to suggest that this company will be excluded from the next round. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the operation proposed by Mammoet Salvage and the contract currently under way will eliminate mercury in the most secure way possible, and with the resources needed to ensure good progress. These parties have also made proposals to the Stortningen to take a decision on this matter. Often, perhaps most of the time, it's the easiest thing to do. If the simple thing here is to say yes to the opposition's proposal, in my opinion, it is not the best thing to have the most environmentally secure solution. This is also not the case with ‘fast, safe and cheap’ if anyone wants it. The mercury management in U-864 will probably not be easy. We can't go as fast as we would like, and it won't be cheap – regardless of the solution option. Whatever solutions are chosen for the seventh and last time, it must at least be safe for human beings and the environment, and we must ensure rapid but defensive progress. The government's decision to cancel is firm, which is also confirmed by the Prime Minister on a trip to the West on 19 May this year. The mercury contamination unit should be handled in an environmentally best way, but the project needs to be ensured better. We can't afford to expose the environment to the risk of a failure of a cancellation operation. The responsible now is therefore to join the Government's arrangement. I include the minority proposal that appears in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e265	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e268	The reason for this case happened on 9 February 1945 when U-864 was lowered by 67 tonnes of mercury, probably on an operation that would end in Japan. In time, much has speculated in the honor of the submarine, and only there may be reason good enough to get it up. Nearly seven years ago, the ‘Tyr’ submarine was found, and investigations and processes were initiated with a view to detecting risks in view of and for the purpose of getting the boat up. It's used tens of billions the representative would have meant to say 'till millions'. in this work, and that is clearly what is important. Of course, it's the fear of the consequences for the local environment, for people living and living on the coast, it's the fear of the big fish stocks and the resource that fishing represents, and of course it's the fear of what this can mean for our long-term reputation as a fishing nation. Three years ago, the government presented a proposal for coverage. This met with great resistance and the Stortinge conducted two hearings which almost forced the government to draw up the proposal and produce an alternative outcome, namely to explore a lifting option. The right has been clear on this issue for a long time, the wrecked – the very source of pollution – must be removed. There's a big cost associated with this, but the costs can get a lot bigger if we don't clean up properly. There are, as I mentioned, also speculations about whether the submarine has additional dangerous cargo. So it's the relationship with the local people, the security they have to know, that Helga Pedersen justified his decision when she turned the case around. This also applies to our reputation, not least the ability to clean up ourselves in our sources of pollution can mean a lot to our neighbouring countries too. Otherwise, we're pretty good at pointing out neighboring countries' sources of pollution – I mention Sellafield in this context, and not least the nuclear pollution from Kola. When we later got a matter from the government, unfortunately, they had turned back. It was justified by a report submitted by the consulting company Dovre and TØI – a report that we in the Right reacted to, but not on what the previous speaker made a big point, namely the concept, because the concept of lifting was previously assessed by the Norwegian Veritas. I did not notice that the Labour Party representative mentioned it in a single word. In retrospect, it has also been evaluated by Lloyd's, a world-renowned class company. If you go into the Dovre report and see what it refers to, it mentions the role of the Coastal Works as a contractual counterpart to Mammoet, and also the possible role of the Coastal Works as such by leading such a large project as they had not had before. Many points were made in this report, namely the risk assessment between the parties, namely that this was a limited solidity company. Yes, it even said it was a limited-experienced company. Not so many others have raised submarines before. And it said that the Coastal Plant as such was undersized for the task. The last point was the cost aspect, the actual cost of this, which had a large room of uncertainty. All of this has been cleared up in retrospect, not least because the Coastal Works themselves took hold of it and went into new negotiations with Mammoet. There are even contract proposals that address this. It's given a price guarantee. In the course of the hearing, the Council of State stated that, to the extent that the Coastal Works are not able to do so themselves, they would relate to their competence. So this is going to be done in a safe and proper way. In other words, the many critical comments of the Dovre report have been rejected or renegotiated. What is it that makes the government parties continue to maintain their position on this? They don't do that either, because in the proposition, you're actually going back to the start. They also say that the cover option should be fully investigated. Then it happens that the speakers before me have been involved, that both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have been out and said that the submarine should be lifted. There is a step in the right direction again, but it is also suitable to create again confusion about what the government really means. For what the Labour Party's representative just said from this pulpit, and what the Council of State said in the Questionnaire as late as a week ago, does not agree with what is in their own motion. It's quite eye-catching. We don't take the chance. In the right, we've decided, we don't take the chance of multiple postponements, because postponements can become fatal. We strongly regret – in a matter that should not really be very political, I understand correctly – that the government parties will not now be involved in the upswing. We agreed on this, and now you fold. That can't be the solution. The government did not react to the solution at all when Veritas presented his concept assessment last summer. There is a proper method of lifting, which has been used many times in the past, and one also cleans up afterwards on the seabed. In the right, we're wondering what's really behind this. Because we have registered that the Workers' Party's representatives at their annual meetings and in other forums also press the government on this issue to try to change the decision. Could there be other reasons behind this? Because these are not rational arguments. We've got the contract modifications. The risk has been identified. We have also given the Coastal Agency competence. We have received a guaranteed price, and the concept has been duly assessed. So what could it be that's left over? It's tempting to come up with speculation. One should probably avoid that, but I can associate speculation with what the Council of State has written in its proposition, where she says that there should be acceptable risk and acceptable economy. Are we starting to approach the cause now? Is it the economy – trying to correct in the revised national budget 630 million loved ones – that is why? I do not know, but I find that the government and its representatives in this house once again cause confusion on this matter. We really don't know what they stand for, because there are two different things that come out in their speeches and in what they write in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e294	The representative Halleraker concludes by wondering if it's the economy that's the starting point here. Then it was a little funny, I thought, that the representative Halleraker thought we had already spent tens of billions on this. He probably meant tens of millions. But it's a little strange that he's speculating in the economy when he obviously goes a little bit mad in the economy itself. But let's do it. I note that Stortinget today does not want to try out the project that the opposition wants and that is not quality-proof, because the position wants to move forward on the basis of the report that has come. After the criticism that has been voiced there, a new round of rounds has to go, and a budget for 2011 will set out how far one has come in that process. It sounds like what we're doing today is going against raising, when you listen to Halleraker and Sortevik and probably others in the opposition as well. But that's not it, because – and I know this, because I've been working for as long as Halleraker and Sortevik did with this case – we were very happy in 2009, when one presented the conclusion. But then one has got another round – we have to do another round to ensure quality. I found it quite demanding when it comes to doubting what both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have said when it comes to lifting, when the question is whether this submarine is being raised, and the answer is yes. How much time can you be? I think there's a bad thing from the opposition's side when we talk here. I have been through three consultations on this matter now. I thought that the last hearing was the most interesting, in fact, because then there came up some new lifting options – they were even Norwegian – that gave me some new knowledge about how we do things in the oil and gas industry, can be linked to such a thing as this, where we can develop our own competence in this area and not just condoms on a giant global actor – a recognized global actor, for all. The knowledge gained during the last hearing is now open to us to go into it. I am only very clear – as the national meeting in SV has been – that this submarine should be raised. That is what the Prime Minister has said, as the Council of State has said, and that is what SV's representative says on the Stortinget. The mercury must rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e309	The submarine at Fedje is a matter of a long story that several representatives have prepared very well, so I'm not going to go into that problem. The centre party considers that it is correct and necessary that the submarine and its contents be handled safely. The centre section is also fully in place for the submarine to be lifted. But it has to be done in such a way that the environment and safety are ensured. There would be a very bad case both for the local population, for the productive sea and coastal areas, for the environment and for those to undertake the uplifting operation, if something had gone wrong during the operation. That's what makes us do the extra round of quality assurance. It is necessary to really go in and look at the concepts that have been chosen, which was also pointed out in the KS2 report. The mercury load shall be removed. It must be done with as little risk as possible and we must use the resources needed to ensure good progress. It's solid. Further reporting on the progress and status of the project has been said to take place in the State budget for 2011. It's not about a postponement, it's about doing it in a proper way. And reports come quickly – to the autumn. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the decision to lift the submarine and its cargo remains firm, which has been firmly established by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Fisheries and Coast on various occasions this year, and which we in the Central Party are fully committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e320	There were some of us who had enjoyed having a little pre-premier on this case in this room in the previous week. Then we asked a question to the council, and we got such a good answer that we chose to include it in the setting, because it was so obvious that the submarine should be raised. This is a matter of enormous commitment. It's not just the community of Fedje that's busy with this, it's also a collective coast of Norway. I also want to show the significance this can have for the reputation of the entire maritime industry. Therefore, this is an important issue both for the local population and for coastal industries in general. But there is reason to be confused when reading the proposition that came to the Storting, for the government says the following: ‘The Government will therefore launch a pre-study and then a KS1 containing the following four alternatives: the zero option, coverage, raising and an alternative where raising and covering are combined. By also including cover and an alternative where raising and covering are combined, the likelihood of remaining together increases with satisfactory alternatives to the management of mercury pollution.» It's based on the doubt being sown here, that the opposition has chosen to be clear in this matter. Now I'm not going to draw up the story, it did the case spokesman in a brilliant way, but the paradox here is that the government said so clearly in 2007 that it was going to be covered up. In 2009, the government said it would be lifted. So in 2010, you're going to have to figure out both how to raise and how to cover. And then one came to the Storting in the last week and said very clearly that it should be raised, but it was uncertain when it was going to happen. I don't think there are any professional reasons why it can't happen in the summer of 2011. I want to get what the representative Halleraker also mentioned here, that this project has had a six-and-a-half-year preparatory work, closely followed and evaluated by the well-known Norse Veritas. The project has also been approved by Lloyd's. Legally, the Kystsverket also has clear support from two large law firms with extensive experience and practice within just such contracts internationally. The Dovre Group notes that there is considerable economic uncertainty in the project and that total costs have increased sharply. Veritas has calculated the costs of uncertainty both before and after the Dovre report and has found that there is no need to change the estimate. So there is a clear technical recommendation from the Norwegian Veritas that this project is justified. That's why we should be able to do this in 2011. I trust both the members of the government party and the state council when they say the submarine should be raised. The question is when to do so. This may be done in 2011 on the basis of a professional recommendation. Will the government wait until 2012 or 2013 – or will it do so in 2014, as this government will carry out very many projects at the same time? I understand it this way – and I think it is very good, what the representative Magne Rommetveit says – that the 2011 State Budget will provide clear information on the status and progress of the work. There is a hall that today says we want the submarine lifted. We disagree if it is professionally right to do it in the summer of 2011. I note that the opposition has the Norwegian Veritas with them when they say that it is fully defendable. The most important thing is that the submarine is raised and that it happens as soon as possible. The economic framework for this says Veritas is also safe. What's absolutely certain is that the longer one waits, the more expensive this can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e340	Only a brief left-wing explanation of vote: in the previous period, when the Left sat in the Committee on Transport and Communications, this matter was thoroughly debated, with two hearings presented by the rapporteur. The left voted in favour of lifting in 2007 and will vote today to ensure that this is done as quickly as the majority of the Committee proposes. The left is to seek knowledge and to ask questions well before decisions are taken. But this case has been through so many investigations and hearings that I find it difficult to see that there will be new moments that are heavy enough to postpone it. Of course, the critical comments made in the reports are important to take into account in the project. This should also be done in connection with the conclusion of the negotiations with the company responsible for the termination. If this wreck is lying down, I fear that Norway will lose credibility and weight on international environmental issues, as many have been concerned about. Any argument from the Norwegian authorities to clean up radioactive emissions, which Halleraker made in connection with Sellafield – and we are also critical to some projects in Russia – will fall on its own unfairness if it leaks mercury from a wreck that has been lying right outside our door for a long time. The left will therefore vote with the majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e349	For the sake of order, in that it is a voice alert: Does it mean that the Left will vote for the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e353	Yes, we will vote with the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e358	Whether it becomes a majority remains to be seen. - Left supports setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e363	The work on U-864 and the management of mercury cargo pollution are a demanding matter. In the interests of both safety, our productive sea and coastal area and people living along the coast, we must be sure that an uplifting operation is well planned and acceptable in terms of environmental considerations and risks. I am not going to go into the details of what has happened since the wreck of U-864 was found outside Fedje in Hordaland by the Maritime Defense in 2003. I explained that at the open hearing on the matter on 27 April. However, I would like to repeat that in January 2009 the government went in to cancel the wreck of U-864. As the cancellation project has a cost framework of more than 500 million. At the same time, it was made clear that an external quality assurance would be carried out. That is the report of this quality assurance I received on 16 December last year. The report concludes that the project, based on the plans available, is not sufficiently prepared and that there is a very high risk related to the scope of work, contractual relationships and governance. Furthermore, the report says that there is doubt that the project can be managed in a sufficiently controlled manner, which is also unfortunate in terms of safety and the environment. In the proposition on the matter, the government does not go into the details of the external quality assurance, but concludes from an overall assessment that further investigation is necessary before final decision is taken. I believe that, in the light of quality assurance, it would be irresponsible for the government to proceed with the cancellation project as it now exists. After the presentation of the proposal, recordings have been made from among others. Mammoet Salvage, who has been awarded the cancellation contract. There has also been contact between the company and the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, which I have informed about in my own letter. I would like to reiterate that there is an overall assessment on the basis of the government's conclusion that further investigations are necessary. Any recording related to details after the submission of the KS2 report, whether from Mammoet or other actors, does not alter that assessment. In Stortinget's Question Time on May 26, I was asked if I agree with the Prime Minister that U-864 should be lifted. A number of Committee members have expressed surprise at this. It amazes me. The proposition reads on page 4: ‘The external quality assurance report recommends the implementation of a pre-project for a cancellation operation. The government considers it important to have the necessary measures taken to deal with the pollution from U-864. Therefore, further consideration of the cancellation option should be seen in the context of other possible measures that could provide an environmentally and risky solution. There is a risk that, even after the implementation of a pre-project for raising the U-864, one will not have an alternative that meets the overall environmental concerns and is acceptable for management, risk and costs. The government will therefore launch a pre-study and then a KS1 containing the following four alternatives: the zero option, coverage, raising and an alternative where raising and covering are combined.» Thus, the government has never deviated from the decision to raise the U-864, but if, in the worst case, a reassessment would show that raising is not environmentally sound, it would be very unfortunate to be left without alternatives to dealing with mercury. We all agree that it's not a solution not to do anything. That's why the government has chosen to include the cover option of the wreck as well as an option that combines raising and covering. Let me just remind you that the project at hand is actually also about raising and covering. Coverage must be provided in any case. With this little quote reading from the proposition, I hope that no one is as surprised that the government is standing by its decisions. After treatment in Stortinget, work on the necessary investigations will start as soon as possible. Once the investigations and quality assurance have been carried out, the government will return to Stortingen with this matter. I propose to inform the Storting about the further process, both in the budget proposal for the autumn and in the revised national budget for 2011. I also have to say that I am in part quite impressed with the technical competence available. I've read the Dovre report carefully. When it comes to saying that what has now happened during and after the hearing responds to all the points in the Dovre report, I find it quite difficult to reach the same conclusion. Furthermore, it may not be a good idea for a Council of State to ask when you are in Stortingen, but at least I have to say that I am amazed at what has happened after the open hearing. There the representative said Halleraker, and pointed out that there was also a reaction to the KS2 report at the right. In that hearing, Halleraker said that he understood well that the Council of State withdrew this case, because this would be a very large risk project to go further. I would like to know what has made the Right now turn to the degrees, as we have heard here today. Finally, I would like to stress that the government's focus in this matter is on the environment. We can't afford to expose the environment to the risk of a failure of a cancellation operation. The responsible person is therefore not to proceed with this cancellation project now. A more thorough investigation will give us the knowledge we lack.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e397	Now we are approaching the core of the matter. Here we're going to have repeated the second thing already read: that's, as it's written on page 4 of the proposition, four alternatives. That is, there are actually five options being explored, because the zero option is also mentioned. It's an alternative not to do anything. It's also in the toolbox of this government, not to do anything at all! I ask again on the basis of the very clear assurance that came here in Stortinget last Wednesday that it is about cancellation: why then do you investigate full coverage of mercury, and why do you investigate partial covering of mercury, if there are methods the government has not intended to use? If we are to believe the Council of State last Wednesday and the Prime Minister the week before, that is the out-of-date option. Why do you want to investigate anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e406	Just to take a short flip into the zero option, I'd say there's formalities. I would like to delete that, but it is about formalities in this type of procedure. I'm not going to throw myself into explaining why it has to be included. It's not a realistic option, so I'm asking that we just put it away. Until it is taken with both full cover and partial cover: the last one is included because regardless of the lift, there has to be a cover. It was also reviewed in the quality report, as a lack of description related to it. It will also be an extremely important part of an operation related to this mercury. There are 30,000 m2 already heavily contaminated. I'm not very technical, but even I realize that it's not possible to get up absolutely everything of the smallest little pollution. That's also why we have to have partial coverage. Otherwise, I repeat what I have said: the government has not changed its position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e418	I record that the Council of State is concerned with further investigations, and that she is very concerned that we need to assess the matter even more closely. Criticism is largely about economic conditions and other things. In fact, you can start wondering if it's Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen and his search for money that is the Council's reason for now postponing the matter again. We have had many investigations, and we have had clear and clear information to show that this can be done. I want to challenge the Council of State because she does not respond concretely. She says the zero option doesn't apply anymore. In the letter that was sent at 1 p.m. 10.18 last Wednesday – when the Council of State sat here in this room – it is said that the options should be considered: the zero option, coverage, raising and an alternative where raising and covering are combined. It was sent from the Department to the Committee at 5 p.m. 10:18, when the councils sat here. Afterwards, the Council of State says that she agrees with the Prime Minister. I wonder what the Council of State really agrees with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e425	I can repeat once again why we have the different options. The zero option is accepted, it is not applicable. Anyway, when there's an alternative to covering, it's, as I've said repeatedly, to be absolutely sure that whatever happens, it's going to be a realistic alternative. So if you don't want to lose time in the ultimate sense, that's what happens. I want to remind you once again of the importance of focusing thoroughly also on covering, because it will in any case be a form of covering. The same amount we get up, there has to be a coverage as well. It is also an important part of the overall project, so having a thorough coverage review is necessary. I must admit that I do not fully understand why the fear of this is so great, when the repeated statement from this pulpit is said that the government has not amended the decision. We stand firm on the original decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e432	I think it is nice that the Council of State comes to Stortinget and asks us questions and applies for knowledge. If I can contribute, I'd like to contribute. She will fail to complete the quote 100 pst. I said that I agreed with her on the basis that I think this was a fitting report on the role of the Coastal Works and the ability of the Coastal Works to solve the problem. I also said that in the Questionnaire last Wednesday. I'm standing by. That is what I thought was largely rejected by what has happened during and after the hearing, which makes us sure that this is a sensible project to proceed with. If this as the Council of State points out is correct, I would like to ask the following question: What is the reason why the government did not stop the matter and came to Stortinget with the matter after the Veritas report became known? It was a concept assessment that had been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e441	The proceedings here have progressed step by step. That concept assessment, as the representative Halleraker points out, is made by Veritas. The Dovre report, that is, the KS2 report, is broader in scope. It also goes into part of the work and scope of work and points out things there. I would like to repeat that it is about the totality of that quality assurance report. Deaf people point out the uncertainty in the scope of work, they point out that method development and technical definition have come very short, challenges and management of wrecks and contents are little worked out, and the scope and solution for covering and dredging has not been clarified – important things related to the operation itself as well as, as I say, the totality. The KS2 report is part of the formal treatment related to cases of over 500 million cases. kr, and, as I have repeated, it is clear in its recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e448	Governments are quoting from the proposition, but it deliberately stops up before the sentence that says: ‘The pilot study will be subject to external quality assurance of design choices [[KS1]] One of the options that will be considered is full coverage. The zero option says one in the proposition that one will not follow. But full coverage doesn't take a distance from the proposition. Therefore, there has to be confusion about whether there is an alternative, when the government says that this is an option you want to consider yourself. But I still think the debate has made it clear that there is a lifting of the government going ahead. I understand that the government can't reach the goal of raising in the summer of 2011 with its schedule. But there are good opportunities to achieve the goal of raising in the summer of 2012. And my question to the Council of State is, is it also the Council of State's goal that the submarine be lifted in the summer of 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e461	My honest and sincere goal is to treat mercury and mercury pollution outside of Fedje as quickly as possible, as safely and as safely as possible. Then I'll come back to Stortinget as soon as I have both the timeline and the content of that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e466	At the risk of being perceived as premature both on their own and on behalf of others: this is a matter that involves a strong commitment. It is also a difficult matter, it has been expressed several times by the Council itself. Then I finally have to go back and connect the line from Wednesday in the previous outside to here we are now. At 11.09 a.m., the Council of State answers: ‘The Council of Trade Unions agrees with the Prime Minister. Yes.’» But the question is, do you agree to cancel the submarine? Then my last question in the last line about the state council can explicitly say here that she agrees that the submarine should be lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e478	I will repeat once that the government's decision to cancel is firm. It's not harder than that. It's repeated by the Prime Minister, it's repeated by me. It is quite obvious that the government then has a goal of implementing its decision, which is cancellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e486	I almost think we should welcome the matter that we do not want to solve, greet the red-green government. I have to get back to the last Council of State said. Last Wednesday, at 6 p.m. So 10.18 the Council of State said to evaluate all the alternatives. At 11.09 a.m., the Council of State said that she agreed to cancel the submarine. Then the committee decides the setting at the end of last week. Then it was not necessarily seen that the submarine had to be lifted. Today, the Council of State says that she agrees that the submarine should be lifted, but we are still going to adopt the proposal from the government, which means new investigations and new assessments. At least it is quite clear that this is a government that will not take responsibility and difficult choices. In 2011, there are municipal and county elections. I understand that it might be good for the government to push this matter forward after the municipal and county elections in 2011, because then it might not be quite the same pressure on the government because you have finished the election that is important to many of the local politicians of the Workers' Party in Hordaland. I heard statements from the representative of Langeland. It didn't sound like a very credible post. It sounded like a post that he had to make, but he didn't really mean what he said. That is not how I have heard the representative from Langeland earlier on this matter. This matter is quality-secured up and down, and Dovre's counter-representations are largely refuted quite thoroughly. And, as I said, I am not sure that the Ministry of Finance is the right one to assess who has the most competence to comment professionally on the professional issues involved in this matter, but perhaps others who have also shown and documented that cancellation is very reasonable. I assume, of course, that the Workers' Party in Hordaland is on the decision they have made, that we are demanding a lifting. I also think it's a little special, because in 2007, after the hearings in the Transport Committee, the Council of State said that there were new elements that made it necessary to reconsider this. We were happy about that. But there must be limits to how many times we are going to re-examine this matter, and especially when we see that it is economic conditions both for the Council of State and for other representatives who are in favour of what is proposed by the minority in the Committee. That's the economic and governance thing you're most concerned about, not the environmental thing, which at least I think you should take into account and actually do something about. The representative of Romemetwiss's post was heard as a 10-minute post in fossroing to try to create uncertainty, in order to try to tell why the government now needs to re-examine what has been done many times before, and perhaps also how to reverse this case. Since the representative Rommetveit is also from Hordaland, it may be useful to have the matter put to the vote after the municipal and county elections in 2011. I believe that now there has to be an end to postponement, training and keeping people out of Fedje and in all other areas for fools, and not least an industry, with which I thought the Council of State was quite well acquainted, the fishing industry, for which she also has a responsibility, and which is very concerned that we now get cleaned up – I think the third – I get to say the poison, because that's what it is. I also think it is a great paradox that government representatives from Norway travel around the world telling how to clean up old sins, or new sins for that matter. But we can't clean up our own dish. So in our own backyard, we can't make a decision that says we're going to clean up the U-boat on Fedje once and for all, make sure to cancel the poison and get it out and out. I'm almost beginning to wonder at the saying – as some claim – that if you're not going to do anything, you're going to set up a committee. In this case, we have to expand it to make sure that if you want nothing done, you can make a new report or take a new review, and then you have to put the matter back on, so that you can not do anything about this matter. But I still want to challenge the Council of State, because she is not clear when you last changed the position on this matter. When, in 50 minutes, you can walk from one position to another, and after that, you come back with a new position, and now you have come back to one of the positions you had in the Question Time last Wednesday – are you going to change it again?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e505	In this debate, the opposition is trying to create the impression that the government has substitutive motives for implementing quality assurance of all alternatives in order to secure the wreckage of U-864 and the on-board mercury cargo. I'm sorry. So the opposition uses all the means when, for example, it does. to better knowledge, ask questions about what has been said about a zero option. The zero option is inserted to have a reference option and it knows the opposition. There must be no doubt that the red-green majority is concerned about finding the safest and most environmentally friendly way to deal with an uplifting of the wreck and handling the mercury cargo on board. I believe that there is greater reason to ask questions about the responsibility of the opposition in this case. As the representative Rommetveit said, the handling of the wreck and the pollution from the mercury cargo on board are both demanding and complex. Not only the wreck and cargo in their present state, but also the removal and lifting of wrecks and cargo represent a major environmental risk. In addition, large concentrations of mercury contamination on the seabed around the wreck have also been recorded, as well as extensive work on cleaning and/or covering the seabed must be carried out. It goes without saying that there is no limit to error handling in this case. We have to be absolutely sure that an uplifting of the wreck will be carried out in the safest way. We can't afford to expose the environment to the risk of a failure of a cancellation operation. We can't afford to have any urgency in the matter either. In the context of the revised national budget last year, the government informed its decision to lift the submarine with the dangerous cargo. At the same time, quality assurance was also notified. This resulted in that KS2 report, which is very critical of the project at hand and which concludes that the existing plans are not sufficiently prepared and that there is a very high risk associated with, inter alia, the risks. scope of work, contractual relationships and governance. It's the government's duty and the Big One's duty to deal with this. Therefore, it is right for the government — in addition to continuing with the decision to lift — to ensure quality of other alternatives, such as coverage and a combination of uplifting and cover. The government's decision to raise the issue remains firm, as both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs have established. At the committee hearing, we were presented with several alternative ways of lifting the wreck and removing the mercury load. Mammoet Salvage owns one of the solutions in question. After a thorough assessment of both the concept and the contract, Stortinget will be presented with an even safer solution. I share the impatience expressed by many in this case, but in this case we cannot afford to make the wrong decisions. So it's a little special when the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party come in to maintain the contract that is the basis for the highly critical quality assurance report. It is, as I see it, also a dangerous way to assume that the Storting will choose a contract partner, especially because there is a lot of commercial light to be considered. But that does not seem to frighten the Advance Party and the case rapporteur, Arne Sortevik, who has also previously pointed out suppliers to the government. I believe the practice of the Progress Party and Arne Sortevik put forward could have caused us considerable problems, but it is even more worrying that there are responsible parties that support such a procedure. The responsible choice in this case is to join the government's arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e526	U-864 is a derelict wreck. It's a grave for German soldiers, and it has a deadly cargo on board. As late as 2003, they found the wreck of U-864. It is 145 metres deep, but smaller parts of the wreck are scattered outwards and down to a depth of 160 to 165 metres. The area on which the wrecks are located is considered unstable and at risk of slipping. There are 30 dimensions of contaminated seabed around the wreck. There's one grave, there's one wreck, and there's one environmental bomb. This time I want to say that I am grateful for Germany's ability to produce things with high quality, because if the cylinders containing mercury were not so solid, the leakages would be greater than they are. They were designed to withstand at least 60 years, but the Germans produce quality that lasts more than that. Despite it, it tastes like mercury – after all, it's a whole submarine that's blown to pieces – approx. 3 kg a year, we're assuming it's leaking out. Therefore, everything suggests that it is urgent to get this out of the seabed. We have experienced the way forward to this debate in this Chamber as long, and we have felt that there has been uncertainty along the way – not uncertainty created by the government, but uncertainty created about the consequences of mercury poisoning. Can this be affected? Is it possible to touch the sediments without any leakage of mercury into water? It's been the uncertainty we've been feeling. What is the correct solution? What is the solution for the future – and for the present? From the wreck was found until the first signals that this wreck actually contained pollutants took some time. When the final message came that the wreck most likely had a load of metallic mercury that was as large as 67 tons, we actually had some problems understanding how much it was. Throughout this period, local politicians and state politicians have had a close and good dialogue with the government. We have had many meetings and many rounds of information exchanges and conversations to get the matter out, to light it up so well that a decision could be made that is correct. This is a matter that has engaged me strongly. I live in the middle of the area, and I've been trying to be out and talk about it. I've compared it to the mercury thermometer that has fallen on the bath floor and been crushed – one little pearl is considered dangerous, what about fainting 67 tons? We have received both the Prime Minister's and the Government's assurances that they will support us in this matter and that the submarine will be cancelled, and we trust that the cancellation will be completed as soon as possible. But this isn't a project where we can have a hurry. Here security must come first. I note that the opposition does not want to spend the additional time it takes to determine how the project is to be carried out. The report raised so much doubt about the cancellation operation and the contract that it would be irresponsible not to go the extra round, in order to evaluate this process more thoroughly. I'm still paying attention to the fact that the cancellation option is fixed. I would also like to stress that it is a matter of course that the polluting sediments around the wreck are handled in the same process, so that we get a cover of the soils that cannot be removed. Then I notice that the opposition has a very great faith in the Hordaland Workers' Party. I think that is quite reasonable. It's a county that has a lot of good statements. Later on, you can just distribute them, and then you can follow our policy. I feel safe about that should go well for the country and for the county. However, the conclusion of the Hordaland Labour Party is that the lifting should take place at the lowest risk possible, as soon as possible, but in the most secure way possible. The government has repeatedly confirmed that it should not be an economic issue but a matter of environment and security. It is a guarantee that I feel secure. My summary in relation to U-864 is: it has to be raised. The polluting sediments around the wreck that may not be removable are covered. The implementation of the operation is carried out as soon as it is environmentally sound. This is an operation we cannot afford to fail – on behalf of the local population, on behalf of the fishing industry or perhaps more precisely, life in the sea, on behalf of our generation, but most of all on behalf of future generations who will continue to live both off and along our coasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e556	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e559	It is wonderful to attend today's debate and to experience that we have a government that appears to be completely free of substance, content and accountability. It's also amazing to hear that the opposition is accused of irresponsibleness. Is it true that the Hordaland Workers' Party has been irresponsible in the matter? Is it true that former Minister for Fisheries and Coast Helga Pedersen has been irresponsible in this matter? In this case, the Labour Party has a relatively large problem. Both the Prime Minister's statement on the matter and the approach of the Minister for Fisheries and Coast to the lifting of U-864 or not make it appear to be of little credibility. You almost have to ask if it's a Columbus trip we're witnessing? Columbus went out as known to find India. He did not know where to go, not how long he would be gone, and when he came back, he did not know where he had been either. The same can be said about the government's treatment: they didn't know what and where they wanted. When they made the decision, they didn't know what they had decided, so they changed their attitude and meaning up to several times, without adopting anything. That's what the minister says today: Yes, we get to cancel the submarine, but you don't want a decision on it. It should then be understood that there is a reasonable doubt about the actual position of the government. Let us hope that both the Labour Party and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will gradually become aware of where they are and what issue we are actually debating today. It's unsustainable for anyone to deal with a government that really doesn't have an opinion whether to raise or not a submarine with 67 tons of mercury. Dovre Group has been commissioned to produce a report that you want to deal with. At the same time, you place both Mammoet Salvage, Lloyd's and Veritas in the same booth, which was incompetent for the task. A government, which has minimal competence in this area and does not know where to go, may doubt the competence and knowledge of global actors who actually possess the knowledge and competence that the government does not possess and demand in this case. It is amazing that the government in its ordered report more or less slaughters the Coastal Works and the competence there, while a global company like Mammoet Salvage says that for them, the Coastal Works has not been a problem, but a professional actor. This is a trick game.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e566	I understand that it is tempting for the opposition to do this as a debate on government and not government, as this is one of the few issues the opposition has managed to gather on. Let me hold on to the fact that this is a debate that is about the submarine outside of Fedje. It's a very important thing to run political reindeer games, or what I'm going to call it. U-864 has to be history. 65 years after the end of World War II, most of the wounds are after the war, but in Hordaland, at Fedje, we have one that still bleeds: U-864. The submarine is one of the biggest environmental threats on our coast. Nearly 70 tonnes of mercury lie on the sea bed as a ticking bomb in metallic containers that have now remained for over 65 years in salt water. There are no guarantees as to how long they are going to last. That's why the submarine has to go up. That's why the submarine has to go up. No one can live near the submarine wreck without worrying about its effects. The submarine must go up to the people of Fedje, to the fish of Fedje and to the coastal people of Norway, and it must also go up to our environment. Now it is obviously no simple matter to raise an old submarine full of mercury. Therefore, the project has to be ensured environmentally and quality is to be ensured. But let me also encourage the Council of State to give the matter the highest possible priority, because it is actually a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e575	Hordaland is a beautiful country, and Fedje is a great place on earth. Out there, there's been an impressive commitment to raising the submarine and getting rid of the mercury, which has doctors like a ticking environmental bomb in the rich coastal environment. It has also been an important local policy issue, and we in the Central Party of Hordaland have worked to ensure that the people have to listen in this matter. It has also been done by the government, but if it listens to the debate today, it may seem as if it is very unsavory. But the goal we're all a few about. All the parties on the Stortinget are some that the mercury is going up and that the submarine is going up. The Governing Councils have today made it clear that the 2009 decision will be followed up. Governments have shown that coverage is out of date, but it is included in KS1 for formal reasons. Also the red-green ones on the Stortinget are some and clear that the goal of raising is fixed. Of course, we are impatient and want this to happen as quickly as possible. Of course, it is tempting to vote in favour of the opposition’s proposal, which could mean faster implementation. But in this case, the most important thing is that one is thoroughly banned, and that one does not gamble when it comes to security and the environment. So I actually thought it safe to take an extra round, so you're quite sure when a raise process is started, that you've done all the preconstructions that you can, because there's also a risk of a raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e585	The government does not lack the ability to decide, but lacks the ability to implement and emerges in this matter, after ten years, as undecided. It's back and forth, and you scald and pick, not only with the population, but also with the environment – with seafood and fish. I'm calling for the courage to make a decision. I am a little surprised to hear the debate today, that we have a submarine lying after World War II in Fedje in the West, should be one thing just for Fedje and for the coast along the West. This is about an international challenge, and I am surprised that there has been no more progress in the debate. With more than 67 tonnes of mercury and the risk that this mercury goes from metallic to organic, we are endangering the genetic material of all people living in these coastal areas. It also applies to the fish in the sea. Therefore, it is very important that governments not only decide back and forth but also actually implement. I also want to ask the Council of State what is wrong with the report that Veritas actually submitted, which was a continuous quality assurance of what was before it. So U-864 contains 67 tons of mercury, and it could be uranium. If you read the book on Hitler's will, which describes this matter from end to end on the day it was discovered, it concerns significant elements, which are themselves a danger to the environment, not only at sea, but also to land. It's a ticking environmental bomb, and so the government can't clear up the waters that are our own, but has always focused attention on other countries' lack of clearing in their own areas. It appears to be a double morality, and you're yelling at others, for example. in the case of Sellafield, Nikel and the rainforest. I also think it is important that the Council of State still has a review and perhaps informs the Storting about what is wrong with our own bodies, such as the Coastal Agency, which to those degrees has received a flagrant criticism in the Dovre Group report. It's high time we made a decision. In this way, I must say that I am pleased with what is the setting from the Right and cooperating parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e598	There are many requests that you could send in this case. I'll send one. I have looked around in the hall, but I see no representative from the Workers' Party's group management. Group leader Helga Pedersen, who has played an important role in this matter in the past, and who has been open and listening to what the Storting has been about, I don't see. Nothing is fixed in this case, not even the submarine is fixed. It's on a slope. However, perhaps more important in terms of the policy and policy decisions that have shaped this matter from January 2007 until the last day of May 2010, is that nothing has been determined. Everything has changed along the way. Let me also point to some of the things on page 4 of the proposition, to which others have referred, and which I now refer again: ‘The pilot study will be subject to external quality assurance of design choices [[KS1]] So they've framed the four options, two of which contain cover. Yes, then, in the Progress Party, we are anxious that we get the same noseache kneecap for the investigation, i.e. a KS1 that is now shown above the conclusions in KS2 that you follow what the consultants put on the table. It gives cause for concern, and in our view it underlines and reinforces the fact that the government has not decided at all. So no matter what the state council repeats and repeats that there's only a lifting that applies, the government says something completely different. Until the Council of State can rule out this wording that it is the concept selection investigation that actually determines which option is chosen, the uncertainty lies there and the threat that the most environmentally risky solutions, namely coverage or partial coverage, are actually chosen. I will ask to come back in a later article. In conclusion, I should just pay attention to reminding myself of the framework of this matter. So this is not a Fedje case, it's not a Hordaland case, it's a national case that concerns Norway's reputation as both a fishing nation and an environmental nation. Once again, you seem to be the best in the environment, and something worse at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e616	There is no doubt that too very, very many people see the government in this matter as both the action frame and the confusion. I do not think that today's debate has clarified anything more about what will happen in the future. On the one hand, one says that one should proceed, including coverage, and on the other hand, the Council of State states that the government is still insisting that raising be done. The question I'm left with then is how long does the government stand by it. Can we be sure that in six months' time the government will be on the increase as well? I think there's a lot of uncertainty about that. Now I'm from North Hordland, from this area. I just have to say that there are a lot of people who feel cheated by the government. They feel that this goes into a pattern, where one says one thing before the choice, and then another thing after the choice. This is something that many people are concerned about. When I go down to the center, people come and ask, what time should the submarine be raised? When I go to REMA 1000 and I go shopping, people come to me and ask me, what time should the submarine be raised? I have to say that it's actually very uncertain, and that it's going to show you in the future. It's a pretty big despair. The last time I was home, there was one thing that got away from me and pointed to the restrictions, that some groups shouldn't eat fish from this area. Then he says quite dryly to me: yes, when we can't eat the fish from this area, we get to nail him to the wall instead and use him as a thermometer. Of course, it wasn't seriously meant to be, but it shows a bit of despair and the gallows humor that exists in this case. A desired action, a desire for something to be done. So this is not only true for Hordaland, this is of course a matter that puts the whole of Norway at risk as a fishing and environmental nation. I had therefore hoped that the Council of State could be clear on this matter and give a guarantee that the submarine will be lifted as soon as possible, that one could go up and clear that people in the vicinity of Fedje and Hordaland – and so far along the entire coast of Norway – could be 100 pst. ensure that the submarine is raised. There would have been respect for that. Unfortunately, there is currently no such thing from the Council of State, and I don't think it's coming either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e627	I take the floor to give peace in the soul to the representative Bjørnflaten. The representative Bear Surface takes this up with the zero option. I think it's very clear in the proposition. It says that the zero option is only there as a reference option, i.e. that there is no such option for the government. The problem is when you also have full coverage as one of the options that you want to select from. Then it helps to create confusion. I think it would have been more natural if the government had said that now we should raise the submarine, we're going to work it out, if one needs more time on it, and then we'll look at the full lifting, put forward a work and go into it. What is now creating confusion is that one is doing several things at the same time, and it has gone to the Storting and said in full certain terms. It's so clear in the proposition, and it's part of creating an uncertain one. So has a teken up the question of whether there's an uncertain link to this. Then I want to show that the Norske Veritas has been working for a year and a half with preliminary work related to this. They're doing good for this. So does Lloyd's, who has also given his approval for this work. I feel that the professional uncertainty here is very small. The Dovre report has been widely welcomed, and we have been given the arguments clarified by the work that the Storting has done. That's why there's no gambling – an expression that's been used from this pulpit – what the opposition does, but it's actually to do this work as quickly as possible. I am still more relaxed now than I was a few weeks ago. It was also mentioned in Bergen’s Official Journal last week that the representative Rommetveit was not on the festival opening because he worked so hard on this matter. What I'm experiencing is that the government party has also made it clear the last week that the submarine should be lifted, and that one is working on it as a goal. I therefore look forward to the 2011 state budget, which will provide us with guidance and information about that. So I would also say to the representative Brandvik: The fact that the Christian People's Party is not involved in exactly that part of the setting that relates to the Hordaland Labour Party has no reason to say that there is no lack of trust between the Christian People's Party and the Hordaland Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e640	I'm a politician because I want something, I'm a politician and I think it's nice to be a politician. But it's sometimes that I'm horrified at the political game. In my simplicity, I actually thought this was a relatively simple matter when it came to the committee. For there is a KS2 report that is clear that there are uncertainties here. Then it is in my head that it is responsible to go one more round, even if there are reports that say the opposite, and even if there are companies that are going to do the job that say the opposite. Does the opposition not see that there is a cause for some uncertainty in this matter? Does the opposition not see that the uncertainties are present? I am amazed that the opposition is rising above the professional advice that, after all, is there. When Arne Sortevik, as the rapporteur-in-Office, says that the government has a postponement as an instrument, it is completely wrong. This is because you need time to make sure that it's safe, that it's safe and that it's best for the environment you choose, when you have to raise the submarine. When the Advocate General, Sortevik, says that it is completely sound and fully possible to lift this submarine safely, yes, he can certainly do more than I can, but the professional advice I have seen – at least some of them – says that it is not absolutely certain that it is professionally sound and fully possible. That's why it's a good idea to take another trip. When the Progress Party is for the system of KS2 reports and quality assurance, but against the content of the reports, yes, then I start to wonder. And when the Progress Party says that it is unnecessary and irresponsible to postpone, I ask the question: what makes it so sound that the Progress Party and the opposition propose, which is that we are going to go on with 100 pst, and now we are going to do this as the KS2 report sows at least a little doubt that is proper to do? What we have stated in the Chamber today is that an overall increase is in favour of raising the submarine, but the opposition is helping to create uncertainty among the population of Fedje, among the population of Hordaland and among the population of the whole of Norway, for that matter – because I agree that this is a national matter. I think that's a political game that's unworthy, and that's why I'm a little stated today. It is not worth helping us to create this uncertainty when we can determine – and I will use my last seconds on the platform to do one more thing – that we are all for the submarine to be lifted. But some of us are probably even more to make sure it's raised in a very safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e647	It's interesting to hear the red-green parties talk hot about investigating environmental policy. Had it been just as hot to talk about in climate policy, probably many things had been done differently. We need to spend as much money as possible in the shortest possible time and to investigate as much as possible. After all, the Minister for the Environment was down in Indonesia and distributed 6 billion. kr there. There was no need for investigations. It was just getting the money out there, and then you could go home and say that you've been there and contributed to the environment. Then it becomes immediately more difficult when you get home and have to clean up in your own garden. It was seven years since this submarine was discovered. Then you've been back and forth in these seven years, and there's still some uncertainty. Now you say you have to cancel it, but who has a guarantee that something new comes into it at some point that makes you start to review it all over again? The people out there have now waited long enough. The uncertainty they've lived for long enough. Now there's one thing that remains, and that's getting up the submarine that's lying there, and getting action done behind the decisions that have been made. Some have highlighted the uncertainty when lifting this boat and said that they should therefore investigate. Yes, but there is another uncertainty in this too, and now I quote from the Hordaland Workers' Party resolution, which actually has some things in it that show that there is a glimmer in the Workers' Party as well. It says: ‘The mercury leakage from loading is now estimated at about 3 kg per year. It is alarming in itself, and no one can guarantee that the leakage can't increase dramatically rapidly." The representative Barstad of SV also said that the submarine is there as a ‘ticking bomb’. My question is, how long are you going to figure out and figure out while there's a ticking bomb there, which can develop into a dramatic situation during the time you sit and investigate? I think that the people of Fedje and the surrounding area also have a big question mark. The question is whether these two things are balanced against each other – raising them as quickly as possible rather than continuing to investigate and investigate. This is a government with great visions of environmental policy, it is a government that is willing to use large sums, but that has stumbled into quite a number of issues. We are very many who have been waiting to see at least some results of all that rhetoric. You have the opportunity to show it in this case here, but it doesn't seem like you want to do it here either. We hear the council say the submarine has to be lifted, and then you say there is no timetable, there is no guidelines – everything is floating. No one knows when anything is going to happen in this case. It's not very reliable, and it's not very good news for the population that's still going to live with this uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e659	I would first like to thank you for your recognition that I am very committed to matters that we are going to deal with, and in particular in this matter. And I have. I am also proud of the government and the consensus we reached a year and a half ago. That was also why I was very surprised when the Dovre report came that this is almost a slaughter – it is hardly a parliamentary expression so that I get to say desauvuration – of the role and ability of the Coastal Agency. I believe that this relationship has received too little attention, but it has received attention elsewhere. The Coastal Works, which is thus a state agency, and their lawyer Frithtjof Herlofsen from the law firm Vogt & Viig have found reason to defend the Coastal Works – in a 12-page letter – against the attacks that the Dovre report ordered. I guess it's a paradox. I'll be allowed to quote from another report, which I think is very interesting, namely Lloyd's report on feasibility: ‘Lloyd’s Register concludes that the proposed plan is technically feasible. The equipment and techniques proposed have been assessed as available and well-tested technology.» With regard to the complexity of the operation, this project will be ranked among current underwater projects in the oil and gas industry. No, we listen to professional conclusions, and we listen to them. I want to remind the Bjørnface that it was the government with the support of Stortinget that would have the case back for a decision in Stortinget. That's actually why we're dealing with the matter here today. It is not up to me to sum up, but I record that local workers' party representatives and all representatives from the SV and the Central Party who have spoken find reason to strongly clarify the lifting decision that has now been pronounced – orally at least – to their own government; yes, almost as an open order for their own government. So there's a reason to ask the Council again: can we trust that the submarine will be lifted within a few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e682	Viewed with my eyes, this is actually the most amateur treatment I've experienced in the years I've been on Stortinget. You actually have to ask yourself, does it seem to a government to be then to the degree action lamb? In my view, this is a fool's game, because it's not like we, as the highest body in Norway, have neither the occasion nor are we going to play with 67 tons of mercury, which is a ticking bomb. If we are concerned about the environment, we are committed to safeguarding our reputation as a coastal, farming and fishing nation, we must actually take a decision to lift the submarine. That's where the big question lies. The government parties say you're positive about cancellation, but you don't want to make a decision. What kind of fool game is this? So we are constantly experiencing – not only from the government but also from representatives in this room – that they have more knowledge and understanding of the complexity of lifting the submarine U-864 than both Lloyd's, Veritas and Mammoet Salvage combined. It's pretty tough, and it's hard to understand, not least because this house, this government and Norway have for many years had an implemented policy called leadership. Here, in many ways, there is a policy that is called for quickly, and it violates what is fundamental to today's policy. Thus, when it has such environmental consequences and the reputation of Norway as a fishing nation is at stake, there is no desire to be involved. It's a tragedy, and there's a tragedy that none of us here today actually know the consequences of. Because there would be major leakages during the remaining investigation period, the consequences could become formidable. When it comes to the use of investigations and spending time on things, we are hoped that the investigation of the submarine and mercury will not come in the same situation as the Stad tunnel that is now entering its 17th investigation. This is only a postponement of something that should have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e693	There has been an interesting debate, and I record that the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen said quite clearly what they think – those who do not agree with the government are irresponsible. I think it's quite special. Veritas, Lloyd's and some others have gone through this in a proper and thorough manner and documented that raising the submarine U-864 outside of Fedje is fully possible and realistic, and that it makes sense to do so. But I record that it's always the way the government is the only one who has the truth about where the limit goes for how much money you can spend, or what you can or can't do, but it's not like that in the real world, fortunately, and I'm very happy about that. I am convinced and expect that the submarine will be raised. When we hear the representatives of the government parties today, they all say loud and clear from this pulpit that, yes, we are going to make sure to lift the submarine – we just have to have a little longer time, and we just have to consider some options that are not going to lift the submarine. That's when you create uncertainty. You create uncertainty for the people who live in Sweden, and you create uncertainty for those who fish in the sea there. You create uncertainty for everyone living along the coast, because this is a ticking poison bomb, which at least I don't want us to risk getting out along our entire coast. That's why we're concerned with raising the U-864. I feel that Sigbjørn Johnsen is a little behind here, a finance minister who is terrified of spending too much money, who wants to cut public consumption, and who has suddenly seen an opportunity to bring in another 620 million. kr. To Gina Knutson Barstad, who talks about "race game": this isn't a trick game. This is about bloody facts and seriousness. For us, it's serious that we want to get rid of the poison outside of Fedje, and we want to get it up. That's what the representative said, but she wants to vote against what she says she's in favour of. That's special. So in the case of the Kjersti Toppe of the Center Party, the Central Party at its 2007 national meeting decided to raise the submarine. Why, then, should we have new investigations and new evaluations when we have actually decided to lift the submarine? That is when the opposition's proposal for a decision should be voted on today, which will ensure that the Central Party's national decision in 2007 is followed up. It is not that all proposals from the Hordaland Workers' Party are good. But when it comes to good proposals from political competitors and opponents, you should actually be able to say that you agree with them, that you think they are reasonable, and that you want to follow them up. That's what the Progress Party does when it comes to lifting the submarine outside of Fedje. Susanne Bratli turns the case across... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e708	We are approaching the end of an interesting debate. Let me remind you of the timeframe for raising. I don't think anyone's been into that. But it's like we're talking about a time window. For the sake of weather conditions, this is an operation that can only be done in the middle of the summer. The time frame for 2011 is now in the process of being used up. Right now Mammoet has assured them that if they get a positive decision on the conclusion of a complete agreement, they can do the job in the summer of 2011. But we're about to use up that window. So it's just in the most favorable time we can carry out the operation. It also means that a postponement can quickly be several years of delay, if there were at all to be a cancellation. Then I notice that the opposition is accused of being irresponsible. I would like to remind you that we were accused of being irresponsible in 2007 when we called for cancellation. Let me again remind you that the government had then put heavily and hard on covering as the only sound method. We who proposed cancellation and tried to get a cancellation solution were accused of being very irresponsible in 2007, even here in Stortinget. But it was at the initiative of those who wanted to raise, the Progress Party specifically promoted a Document No. Eight proposals. So it was turned against the government. I also want to remember what the Prime Minister said in March 2007 – one more time I want to remember it. He said, "It's urgent to cover up." Now, in 2010, the Prime Minister has been on his way back to the West and has been confronted with this political breakthrough in Fedje, and he has said, "Now we need to raise, but we need a safe method." So very irresponsible we couldn't have been in 2007. In our view, we are not irresponsible when we now propose to carry out a fully possible operation. Who's Dovre? So it's a consulting firm, which is on a prequalification list at the Ministry of Finance to look at large government investments in construction, roads, installations, etc. But it has been confirmed both in writing and orally that they have no experience in quality assurance. So raising things out in the sea, out in the sea, raising them from the seabed, they have no experience. So far less qualified is South West Consult, a sole proprietorship set to assess Mammoet. So Mammoet is a large recovery group with world-leading competence. They are ready to implement the 2011 operation safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e722	I am sure that we really agree with this matter. We want to get the poison up. We want to get to a place that's safe and secure, both for the people of Fedje and the people along the coast. But it's enough to be humble about knowledge. Here I feel that the opposition is failing a little today. We are very humble in knowledge. We do not claim to have monopoly on it. Maybe no one else in this room should either. Then I feel that, in particular, the Progress Party is coming with quite a powerful attack and that one must call for suspicion in the debate today – foolery, amateurism, tragedy, the Minister of Finance is inside, and that there are economic motives. I really think it speaks for itself. But it's sad that this debate was made to suspect each other's motives, because it really doesn't deserve the people of Sweden. It really doesn't deserve the people along the coast. A game that spreads fear is at least the last thing we need in this debate. ‘Play with 67 tonnes of mercury’ – yes, representative Henriksen, that’s exactly what we don’t want. We don't want to play with 67 tons of mercury. We don't want to gamble. To what was claimed by the representative Hoksrud, that a driver opted for – hardly. It's probably not very popular that this takes a long time, but sometimes one might have to make unpopular decisions to reach popular goals. Otherwise, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the environmental exposure of the Progress Party and hope that it will continue in several cases. But we all agree, and as I think it's important to conclude that although this has been a debate that's largely concerned with suspecting the motives of the government parties, we agree that together we have a job to do to make sure that what we're doing is actually for the best for the population, the environment and the future. It's okay to be impatient, but we have to make sure that what we're doing is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e735	It has been interesting to listen to this debate, and very instructive for a political boy like me. Making so much of a policy out of so much of a subject is an interesting exercise. It is claimed that the government creates uncertainty. I ask, who is creating uncertainty? The representative of Åland does so at least when it is presented as if dramatic things could happen at any time with the submarine missile and the mercury lying outside of Fedje. The KS2 report says on the contrary that the project is not in time. Here it's more important to take the time to do the right things than to rush on. So it is claimed by the representative Fredriksen that there is a government that has «minimum competence». I can actually stand up to that – if that's what's left behind, I'm going to live well with it, because what the government is actually concerned about is relying on the professional assessments that have been made, and not doing politics on this. We have consistently maintained that it is the professional assessments that underlie. The representative Schou asks the question: what's wrong with the Veritas report, what's wrong with our own organs, for example. The Coastal Station? No, there's nothing wrong with that. But what I've shown you all along is that the whole project, the whole of the KS2 report, is what's underpinned. That is why we are following the Council set out in the KS2 report. Then by Halleraker a number is made of the 'Ministry-appointed Dovre report'. Yes, it is probably ordered by the Ministry, but as announced, and as explained, projects over 500 million will be required. kr quality assurance, and I will be very surprised if there are representatives in Stortinget who believe that quality assurance should not be carried out. Then there was also a visit to the Lloyd's report. I have been through it and have registered what has been written there, that it is technically possible, and that is proven technology. Yes, the technologies individually are well-tested. Composite in this project, it has never been done before – naturally enough. A project like this has never been carried out on this planet. I am still being asked for guarantees. The guarantee I can give, and what everyone should trust, is that I and the government have one goal in mind: it is the security of those who are going to carry out the project, the security of the people of the West and the safety of the environment on behalf of the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e752	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e755	After all, the Progress Party has done exactly what the Council of State says, from day one, we've actually been dealing with professional assessments. Unfortunately, the government itself has raised doubts about the professional assessments. No, Freddy de Ruiter, we do not agree on this matter. You want a release with investigation, we actually want to lift the submarine as soon as possible. If you don't understand the difference between acting and solving a problem and postponing it, the representative de Ruiter hasn't got the big difference between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e762	For me, which is one of those who's been following this case over time, the commitment from the Progress Party is a little bit strange. I understand that it's important to go down on the government, with different language usage, but I think what a busy one was earlier. It wasn't necessarily the raising, but it was who had to raise. There was a company at Women's Herad, Eide Maritim, which was very important to get involved in this work. There was a very strong focus on that a few years ago. Now one has found a solution, a recognized, global company, and then one says, they should have it, that's it. So I'm going to think, when I listen to the debate here: now one has found a fail-safe solution. I'm thinking what the BP boss said when the blow-out came in the Mexico Golf – there was a problem with a fail-safe mechanism. So, like the opposition, especially the Progress Party -- it's a little more factual, I thought, from the others -- they've now found a solution that's fail-safe, and that makes them talk about it as a pre-war solution. A pre-war solution has been found for mercury. Yes, it was good! One might see it in many ways, but if it led to the pre-war solution, the mercury spread over the whole of Fatje and out into the Norwegian Sea, there was no good pre-war solution. But one has a fail-safe mechanism with this solution, as if one were debating it. I have to say, I'm a little bit startled by the security of the opposition party that the Progress Party shows in this case, when I think of another, humble entry point earlier. Then there's nothing else that drives, but to knock political coins on the government. The solution for mercury, which everyone else seems to be busy, is not busy. So you're just busy choosing your solution, because you think most people want it. Maybe, but I don't really think most people want a solution that can go wrong, and as a company says you have to look closer, because it's not certain. So I would like the speakers from the Progress Party to explain to us whether they have a fail-safe solution, and explain to us why one goes away from all the Norwegian actors who have signed up with other solutions. Why is it just this solution that applies? Why is it that one now has found a fail-safe solution, when one sees how fail-safe things can be in the Gulf of Mexico? If it was up to the Progress Party, one also had the drilling in Lofoten and the West Pole, with fail-safe oil platforms. In this case, it is important to consider the local population, local fishermen, the local environment and the nation, by choosing a solution that is safe to work on, and not a solution that can fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e771	The President will only suggest, without reference to either the last speaker or the next speaker, that most of the moments now well begin to be illuminated – some up to several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e774	Let me start with two things that are not illuminated. One is a remark from the Government Parties which raised doubts as to the possibility of making changes to tendering rules, in competitive tendering procedures, in contracts. We've examined that. The conclusions we have received do not make us doubt that this is completely possible. It is fully possible to make the boundaries and clarifications that have been made between the Coastal Works of Mammoet in the past, for which they have actually received criticism from the Council of State. It is also fully possible to negotiate a price guarantee, so the objection from the government parties that the tender rules set limits, we believe it is wrong. Briefly to the representative Bratli, who believes this is a political game. We briefly recall that the Storting has both the right and the obligation to inform matters. We do that in this case. We did so in this case in 2007, and we have done so now. We've had an open hearing in Stortinget. We have received new and important information that raises doubts about the strong and bold conclusions reached in the KS2 report. So finally, my summary: the doubt that goes on here today is essentially based on two things. One is that the government says in writing that it should interpret the concept, and then coverage and partial coverage are as a possible concept. It has to be investigated before deciding which concept and which solution to choose. So until what has not been commented on at all, as far as I have registered – neither from the government council nor from the government parties – is the trio of governance, risk and cost. What is acceptable in terms of management, risk and cost? There's a huge constraint here. Without clarifying what's in this statement, there's a reservation that ultimately makes us come back to the zero option. Nothing happens – it costs nothing. You can just leave the dirt. It's absolutely nothing. But what I mean is that both the local people of Fedje, the people of the West and those who are concerned with Norway's reputation as a fishing and environmental nation have the right to have a clarification of, is the government's and the Council's own use of these concepts. What is the significance of this reservation in the case of finding a solution that is acceptable in terms of management, risk and costs? This, together with the first point, namely that there is an investigation to choose the concept and solution – not the government itself – helps to create increased uncertainty on this matter. That's what the opposition regrets, and that's why one should choose another way, namely to implement a fully usable, safe, economical lifting solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e789	I just have to comment a little bit on the statements of the Minister of Fisheries and Coast here instead. She claimed that it was I who created uncertainty in this matter when I said that this could develop dramatically because of the mercury lying there. But it was not I who claimed it – it was not myself I quoted. I quote from the resolution of the Workers' Party of Hordaland. I can do it one more time, because what's written there is very well said: ‘The mercury leakage from loading is now estimated at about 3 kg per year. It is alarming in itself, and no one can guarantee that the leakage can't increase dramatically rapidly." This is the opinion of the Hordaland Labour Party. I think it's well said, and so it's the Council's own party that says it. Then it was SV's Barstad who said this is a ticking bomb. That is also what I referred to. When it comes to creating uncertainty, I actually think that the Minister for Fisheries and Coast has been very successful even when she was standing here in the loop and was very clear that there is no timetable, there is no guideline on how this should be done. That's what you're going to get back to. You can't say it's being done in 2011, you can't say it's being done in 2012 – nobody knows when it's being done. It's said to be done, but no one knows when it's done. The uncertainty that exists here is in the case of the government itself that is perfectly capable of creating. They don't need any help from the opposition. Then there's someone who's making some headway about this with the environmental exposure of the Progress Party. Yes, we're concerned about the environment. But what we're concerned about is action. This government has distinguished itself with very high-powered rhetoric, both in campaigning and otherwise, about everything to do. You have to save the world, and that's a little bit like the further away from Norway, the more you have to do – while what's outside the living room door, you can't do anything about it. We are concerned with action and action instead of all this rhetoric. I understand that for government parties there's a new way of thinking about environment, but it might make sense to start thinking about what you're saying, you should actually try to do. It creates confidence in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e805	Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e808	Two small clarifications: Yes, this has been done before – even by this company with which the government and the Coastal Agency have negotiated. It raised "Cursk". Then the Council of State draws up my reasoning related to the KS2 report and the role of the Department and Dovre. But she fails to mention my main point, that the Coastal Agency – which is also an establishment under her department – finds reason to defend itself against the government consultant in a letter of 12 pages. At least I'll finish for my share now, and choose to make it positive. I perceive that the government is doing half-right – it is positive – and I am looking forward to the lifting being started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e817	And I just have to say that I'm very much in order for us to figure out the zero option. If you get it fixed, you'll know how crazy it can be if you don't do anything. It's kind of like if a political party -- let's take, for example. The party of progress - towards the election campaign should work out: How are we going to fight elections? If we do that, how will the election result be, if we do it like that, what will it be like if we do it like that? Then one has to have a zero option. How will the election result be for our party if we don't do anything? That's not a very good example, but you can think about it. I thought that much of the essence of this is that there is now about 3 kg of mercury playing out every year. We don't know how much more it's gonna be year after year, but we know that if something were going to go wrong in an uplifting operation and 67 000 kg would come out, then it's disaster for people and for the coast. Then not only fat, but most of it comes out of layers. That is why I think it is also environmentally wise to do this even more thoroughly before a set is started. At the top of this, I also thought that one could figure out both the zero and the zero plus option-- and what it should be. The mood here is pretty clear what an effect will be, but it's so extremely dangerous what a person has to do, that a person must have the greatest possible guarantee that he is doing properly. We have said in the comments from the pluralist parties here in this Chamber that we will also have a status, an orientation, in connection with the state budget. It's not that long before it's presented, and I don't think you'll get a full recipe and a full progress and a fixed date that many people are looking for. But it's a point, and one has a grip on it, and this is a matter that we're going to follow very closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3564]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e837	The size will then vote on the case no. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e942	During the debate, the representative, Mr Rommetveit, put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e997	The left has indicated that they support the option. The voting boards showed that 49 votes had been cast in favour of the Committee's vote and 49 votes in favour of the motion by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.40 p.m. and resumed at ……]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e1010	Had it been so, but vice presidents are not authorized to do so. The president wants to ask if there's anyone who...
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e1013	I think it has to be a mistake, and we think we have to take the vote one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e1018	That's basically what the president was expecting to hear. Let's do the voting one more time. The President will draw attention to the fact that the vote here is the opposition's proposal, and the proposal is from the government parties. The voting boards showed that 49 votes had been cast in favour of the Committee's position and 48 votes in favour of the proposal by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (Parliament adopted the resolution)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e1029	There must have been an error during the voting. I want to ask that a new voting be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e1034	We're starting to approach a limit now, but when inmates ask for new voting, it obviously counts extra strongly. It is important that the voting result is representative of those in the room. I repeat that the position on this matter is from the opposition, and is supported by the Left, who is not in the committee, and that the proposal is from the governmental parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-31.ana.ud2225e1053	The president pointed out that applause had to be reserved for other forums.
