ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e98	The representative Torfinn Opheim, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Filip Rygg, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from 23 November to 25 November to take part in meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels, Geneva and Strasbourg of the Workers' Party Group on the welfare permit of the representative Tor Bremer from 23 November until further notice of the Workers' Party Group on the welfare permit of the representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo from 23 November to 3 December from the Workers' Party Group on the health permit of the representative Eirin Sund from 24 November until further notice Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Sonja Edvardsen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Tor Bremer from 23 November to 30 November due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the county of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug and Torkil ÅlandFor the county of Rogaland: Laila ThorsenFor Sogn and Fjordane counties: Anette Stegegiardet Norberg
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e167	Roar Aga Haug, Torkil Åmland and Anette Stegewedet Norberg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e175	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e178	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim, Bente Thorsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to prevent the granting of residence and work permits to imams associated with totalitarian, Islamist regimes that thus do not respect or practice religious freedom and universal human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e183	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e186	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Sylvi Graham and I signed, I am delighted to propose a 10-year action plan to raise reading skills and ensure good basic reading skills for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e191	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there are three letters to Stortinget. The first letter, dated 12 November 2010, reads: ‘Temporary Board of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion In the State Council of 12 November 2010, it was decided that the General Council of the State of Torah Aasland should be in charge of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion for the period of the State Council of Audun Lysbakken’s leave, from 29 November 2010 until 20 March 2011, in addition to the responsibility for university and higher education matters, vocational education matters, study finance matters and research matters of the Ministry of Knowledge.’ The second letter, dated 12 November 2010, reads: ‘Temporary Board of the Ministry of Justice and Police In the Council of State on 12 November 2010, it was decided that the Council of State Grete Faremo should run the Ministry of Justice and Police in addition to the Ministry of Defence in the period of the State Council of Knut Storberget’s leave, from 1 January until 31 March 2011.’ The third letter, dated 19 November 2010, reads: ‘Temporary Board of the Ministry of Labour In the Council of State on 19 November 2010, it was decided that the Governing Council of State Rigmor Aasrud should be in charge of the Ministry of Labour in addition to the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative Church in the time when the Council of State Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm has been ill-appointed.’ The President will propose that the letters referred to be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e228	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e237	This case concerns something that has been discussed on several occasions in this room and in the media, namely the civil servants of the police. The proposers in the case call for an evaluation of the impact of the efforts made in the field of civil servants in the police, as well as a clarification of what tasks are currently being carried out by civil servants and what tasks can be seen in the future by civil servants. Proposals also specifically address the coordination of catch transport. It is also requested in the proposal to clarify more clearly where the border is with regard to civil servants of the police, compared to others with limited police authorities. The majority of the Committee refers to the efforts made by the government against the recruitment of civil servants, and considers that the proposal has taken care of you through this initiative as well as the personnel report Police against 2020. At the same time, however, they are not negative to the intention of the proposal. As regards II of the proposal, which deals with the coordination of catch transport, the majority say that the extension of this project will be assessed following a review of the cooperation project Oslofjorden west. As far as proposal III is concerned, the majority refers to the police law and the police directive and considers that there is no need for further demarcation in this area. The Progress Party regards civil servants of the police as a very important resource both through their competences and because they can relieve the police to a far greater extent than they do today so that they can carry out their mission better. Police officers with three-year police higher education today carry out several tasks that are strictly not required to complete full police training. That's enough to mention, for example. passport issue, arms permits and property relationships. These are tasks that are not given particular attention at the Police College and that civil servants with some basic training in the police profession can carry out. It is also felt that it is important for the police to open up much more to the expertise and competence of civil society professionals. It will help to further strengthen the police so that they can carry out their mandate much more effectively. The Progress Party also believes that it is appropriate to consider differentiating police training. We're going to have a police force where the generalists represent the main gravity and core of the police, but it should also be opened so that people with the relevant background can enter and take part in police training, so as to be able to carry out the mission – preferably in cooperation and in interaction with fully trained police service staff. These will be a good team in which the best characteristics of each individual can be exploited in the best possible way, while at the same time the team has all the policy implications necessary to carry out the mandates. What is also an advantage is that these can then come out as quickly as possible and perform police service, but they also have the opportunity to complete the three-year education if desired. To take it a little further, I would like to point out that in the Netherlands, you have the entire investigation team that is composed without a single trained police officer. This has proved to be a success, and is something we should definitely consider here too. The Progress Party also looks forward to the so-called performance reform being presented to the Stortinget, and hopes that the government will also take along the ideas and input that have emerged in this matter. I would like to remind you that we all aim to get as good, effective and reliable a police force as possible, which can carry out the tasks that corruption and government imposes on them at all times. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the minority have put forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e269	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e272	This case, which is about civil competence in the police, should be a matter where the Storting together has a positive basic attitude and a positive attitude to what has happened. It was almost a sensation when the government came up with emergency measures in January/February 2009 and with 460 new posts related to civil competence in the police, i.e. In one jaf, almost half of the target was taken by 2020, i.e. 1 000 civilian positions in the police. The proposal by the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Anders B. Werp, etc., which we are discussing here today, says that it bears the mark of a crisis response, and that it is therefore concerned whether it has the same effect as if it had been treated normally in the state budget. To that I would say that this is incorporated in the budgets for both 2010 and 2011. Now that this has become a common part of the construction of the police districts, included in the structure there, and carried on from year to year, and will further increase the number of civilian posts, there should be no reason to worry that this will not be implemented – and incorporated – in a good way. When I spoke to the Oslo police district about this matter, they said that the effect they have had on the approximately 100 civil positions they received are a release of approx. 70 years of police force, and that it is very much in line with intention. It is clear that local power adjustments are needed, so it is difficult for the Storting to get into the details of it. However, I believe that the description given by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee, which refers to this being dealt with in the context of the police report against 2020 and an operational analysis of the police, shows that tasks that civilians can have in the police are everything from order tasks to those at the Operational Centres, public hearings, arrests, border control, traffic services, maritime and environmental services, emergency planning, etc., and, on the research side, civil servants can be assigned to tasks related to forensics, analysis, simple interrogation, receipt of reports, DNA sampling, and simple investigations, and we mention, of course, ICT engineers in computer crime. There is a need for different types of civil servants in different police districts and in different parts of the central police forces. Flexibility must be exercised in each of these terms. It is positive to discuss the effect of this, but I think the will to think new, the will to develop the efforts of civil servants to both release police force and to improve the police service today is present across the parties here on the Stortinget. But it's going to be a slightly different picture than what we had at the beginning when we discussed civil servants, when we've increased the admission to the high school of police so much, that's 720 from this year on and hopefully in the years to come. This will have full effect from 2013. Then you won't need emergency solutions – I kept saying – by deploying civil servants to free up police force. Civil servants can then be used in those areas where they can really improve the establishment. You can use police officers in areas where basic police training is best done over three years, and then add new skills to enable them to take the functions where civilians might be needed. So we don't want to have the same pressure on us as before to find employment when we increase police training so much. We can therefore use even more civil servants in the fields where they are really needed and can join and improve the establishment, and not come in as temporary solutions. These issues are important for the development of the police. This is also reflected in the performance reform that is now to be worked on in the future, for example. in one of the five reports which will be sent to the hearing in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e289	First, a question to the Council of State, whether civil servants have ever been an emergency solution. It was a whole new tone. So I'm asking for confirmation of that, because I've never heard of that before. But it might be a new policy. The last edition of the Police Forum describes a situation in which there is a desired development — by all — with several civil servants. The right was the driver of several civil servants, and finally the government granted money to employ more because the financial crisis made it clear that there was also a police crisis. So this sensation really consisted of that it took so long. However, I cannot understand the desirability of training for very many civil servants with limited police authorities, as described in the Police Forum, which is an important reason for our proposal. For the government has been very principleal when it has rejected that e.g. Weighing companies may carry out catch operations, or to the extent that the GENA in Stavanger can carry out DNA analysis because the RMI is in crisis. Then there have been many problems with words about legal certainty. It is not reassuring to the right that arrestaries and others with limited police authority may receive a three-day training course depending on the individual police officer’s discretion. It does not think that the salary was paid by the public for a job to be carried out legally safe. To this end, we have examples of, whether in the case of Nav, decisions with regard to mentally retarded or in relation to the DNA monopoly. Today there is a study at the Police College with the name study in limited police authorities, which gives 15 weights. That study is relatively new, but can be described as a kind of basic education for civilised people. It has not yet been mandatory, and this means that it is up to each police district to assess whether to take the cost of sending people on it. It is also up to each individual to consider whether to search. The requirement today to have limited police authorities is a 40-hour course in charge of each police district. According to the information we have, there is no properly defined syllabus for the course, and each police officer has too much freedom to define what the course should contain. It shows that there has always been a need for a clear strategy for what to do with civil servants and what to do. One thing is competence, another is tasks. The right believes that there has to be new thinking – it's shared by the majority. It needs to be rethinked in order to achieve the goal of more visible policemen. There are many possibilities, for example: Is it a paradox that jailers at the warehouse in Oslo are sitting and cooking coffee and playing cards on the days it is free of trial, instead of being given full use of their labour by assigning them possible and more secondary tasks? It is something they want themselves, and something they will be able to help with in a proper course. So just outside the wall, there's a lot of beggars, drug addicts, and not least tourists, who need help finding out. It would have been better if those who are arrested, with good basic training in limited police authorities could assist the police and create more police force those days that there are no court meetings in Oslo District Court. At least it should be assessed whether these arrest warrants and other police officers can be allocated more secondary tasks and thus better used both human and financial resources to increase public security and satisfaction. Similarly, we have looked at a good many other sites where private weighing companies struggle with groups of young people and handkerchiefs. Patrol police don't have the opportunity to drive in there all the time. In Rome, for example. have sometimes been used by arrestaries to assist, but to a very small extent. If you had a clear strategy and thought about what civil servants could do, from the very beginning, you would have used the civil servants, who are employed by the pressure of the Right – and because there was a financial crisis – in an even better way. Our background to promoting this proposal is simply to use every single year's work for what it is worth – not as an emergency solution, but as a point in itself to create police force. At least it's been Right's intention all along, and I hope it's still the government's intention until – hopefully – we get to employ all the 720 newly educated policemen, and they don't go into the private sector, as they themselves describe that they are now assessing that there is no job for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e306	Proposalers want a national strategy to enhance and improve the use of civil competences in the police. I share the objective of making more use of civil competences, because there is no doubt that civilisation in the establishment will favour the release of police officers precisely to tasks that the last group has been created to carry out. Civil inclusion can contribute even more in different fields. In addition, civil competences could be drawn from outside to various tasks. In the last year's package of measures from the red-green government, 460 civil acts were distributed among the police. 280 years of police work were thus released from various civil duties. I dare in this context to quote something that we politicians should remember, that is, "Well done is better than well said." Whatever we say and promise to do, or what strategies we adopt, it is our actions as numbers. The government has taken action to increase the use of civil competences and will continue its efforts with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e313	Prevention must be one of the basic principles of policy, not least in order to create a safer society with less crime. The police are very central in the prevention work, and for the Christian People's Party, a police force that prioritises prevention work, one of the most important things. It means early efforts towards young people at risk. In this context, close contact between society and the police is important. For the Christian People's Party, the bachelor's course is of course the starting point. It helps to make sure Norway has one of the world's best cops. The involvement of civil society has resulted in positive results in the release of a large number of police posts from tasks that do not require police training. In addition to freeing police capacity, civilisation also contributes to raising the pooling of competences, thus highlighting the quality of police services. That is why I think there is reason to commend the motions for motions for motions for motions for resolutions when it comes to police coverage and better use of resources, because the total could be a better pool of police. Unfortunately, the police’s own operational report for the period 2002-2008 concludes that fewer officials have become visible in the public order service. This is contrary to Stortinget's intention to reform the police force on a more visible police force. This development must be reversed. Police must have financial room to increase staffing and to strengthen preventive work. Unfortunately, this room does not exist in the next year's budget. It is important to have a running dialogue with the department on which tasks can be performed by civil addendum. With the government’s additional efforts in the action package that came in January 2009, it becomes particularly important to have experience in this regard. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that an evaluation will be positive. It is important that one does not limit the possibilities, but on the contrary, looks at the potential. And as the representative of Bohemia was involved in his post, several students may have been eager to reduce the need for more civilians to be added to the police. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that a provider ensure the best possible use of resources, and that one sees the importance that civil competences can contribute to increasing the overall competence of the police. I'd like to include some experience from the committee I'm actually in, the labour and social committee, for another key point in improving resource use and enhancing police competence, I think, is a good senior policy. When a person talks about measures to improve the overall competence of the police, I think that getting more policemen to do more work will also be an important measure. In this way, in order to ensure that seniors are at work, consideration should be given to the possibility of more flexible working hours, home offices, accommodation arrangements, roundabout exemptions, more leisure time and development of competences. It is important that there are strategies and plans for senior policy responses. A good senior policy creates a win-win situation, which benefits both the state and the individual worker, and perhaps – and not least – the social economy. A final explanation of vote: the Christian People's Party will support proposals 1 and 2 and vote against proposal 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e330	In the extension of the police role message, St.meld. No 42 for 2004–2005, and on the basis of the evaluation of police reform in 2000, the Directorate of Police was commissioned to address the educational and staffing needs of the police and civil servants, both with regard to police-trained personnel and personnel with other training. The study is based on a crime analysis, an analysis of the relationship between police and society both nationally and internationally, as well as an overview of actors affecting police work. Overall, this provided a solid basis for assessing the future needs of police personnel and competences. The Police Directorate's crew report against 2020 was presented in 2008. It is the basis for the government's prioritisation of increased staffing and admission to the Police College. At the turn of the year 2008/2009, the Directorate of Police followed up with an operational analysis of the police and officers' seat in order to gain more knowledge about resource allocation and disposal. The final report of the Police Directorate was handed over to the Department in May 2010. I am addressing this because I think it is important to show, when new evaluations and reports are being requested, that there is quite a lot of thorough material available. I believe the government has also added up to a good process for handling this further. Both in the crew report and in the operational analysis, the Directorate of Police investigated the need for staff with a different competence from that of police higher education. The Directorate concluded that far more tasks than today can be carried out by civil personnel, including in the fields of order and investigation. This is mainly about tasks that will complement and complement police competence and, to a lesser extent, tasks where civilians fully replace police-trained personnel. However, civil servants in many areas will be able to release police capacity and contribute to increasing the overall competence of the police. In the field of order, it is proposed to increase the use of civilians for tasks such as: the operational centres, public reception centres, arrests, border controls, traffic services, maritime and environmental services and emergency planning. On the investigation page, increased use of civilians is proposed for tasks related to criminal engineering, on which the representative André Oktay Dahl was involved, analyses, simple interrogations, receipt of notifications, DNA sampling and investigation of simple issues. In this context, I would like to mention that in the context of the so-called action package in 2009, which has been discussed by many, the government has ensured that the police and civil servants' seat had 460 civil works. I'm not so concerned about who said what was in front of this, and in what context it came, but I'm very concerned that we actually got it in place. In this way, we are already halfway to the target of the 1 000 Civilian Yearbooks that are needed, the Police Directorate has calculated in the Manning Report Police towards 2020. Over the period 2010–2013, the government will follow up a number of proposals in the crew report and the operational analysis through a broad-based police performance reform – well-known here in Stortinget. The objective of the performance reform is to make more efficient and targeted use of the resources available at all times. The reform will help to increase the police force out of the resources available, thereby contributing to greater clarification, closer and stronger police and reduced crime. The tasks and competence requirements of civil servants are an important measure in this effort. In the 2010 letter of allocation, the Directorate of Police is mandated to develop a strategy for police staffing based on the crew report, the operational analysis and the policy platform for majority management. The strategy will also be based on analyses of crime trends, both national and international, threat and manpower and population projections. The strategy shall describe the resource needs related to the management of the evolution of the crime and threat picture in the period up to 2030 and will form the basis for the Ministry’s proposals for planning and staffing the police in the years to come. It includes all personnel, including civil servants. With regard to the coordination of catch transport, which is also addressed in the proposal, I refer to the previous pilot project on the transport of prisoners carried out by operators from a private company in Westfold, Telemark and Søndre Buskerud, which was replaced by cooperation between members of the police, judicial and criminal services in the police districts of Westfold, Telemark and Søndre Buskerud. A possible extension of the project to other police districts and criminal care regions will be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e349	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e352	We look forward to the police reform when it comes. As I mentioned in my article, the Netherlands has among other things. complex investigation teams which do not consist of police-trained personnel at all. And my question to the Council of State is, is there anything that the Council of State will consider when the police reform is presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e358	It is the fact that the most central tasks of the Norwegian police are actually to investigate. I have a very serious problem immediately to imagine that we are going to leave the investigation in total – in some cases – to civilians only. I think there will be a need for police competence and police – I say – authority into the investigation. I know that the Progress Party has been very concerned about this – and will certainly come back to that with regard to the foreign affairs. It is very important that the police are on, in order to be able to use coercive measures etc. It will be in most cases. But as I said in my post, there are research assignments that you can entrust to civilians to a greater extent than what you do today. That is what we are now looking at, especially against the reform of results, where we are just looking at what kind of tasks police professionals are doing today, and how we can make it more effective. I am convinced that civil society can play an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e363	In the report Police Against 2020 – and here most of us very much agree – it becomes, among other things. stated that the goal is to have two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. That's a goal that we're very much in agreement with. With regard to this objective, does the Council of State interpret it as being based on the entire police action, including bureaucrats, or is that figure based on operational police?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e368	With regard to the crew reports we have received, and the staffing effort we have, it's obvious that what you need is more police force out. And the government has said that we need, first of all, more police-trained people. The standards and objectives set out in the reports relate primarily to police professionals. The report Police Against 2020 recommended – as far as I recall – a 550-recording. We've seen that the evolution in the number of people living in this country, and how this develops, may be faster than that underlying the report. That's also one of the reasons I've thought it's been especially important that we don't go to 550, but that we get a recording at the police high school at 720.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e373	Does the Council of State consider that three to four days' training, which gives limited police authority, ensures the necessary competence and thereby legal certainty for those who come into custody with civil servants, and does he see that various police officers have a widely different perception of the content and requirement of limited police authority and training?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e378	I think it's probably three to four days' course is scarce if you're going to go into the tasks that we're pointing at, and that we want civil servants to do. I have recorded that the courses, at least those I have been away from, have been of somewhat longer duration, they have been up to two weeks, and some have also gone for longer. But it's obvious that if we're going to go into it now, and we're going to, a division of tasks that are going to be more responsive to investigative tasks, public tasks and orderly tasks, it's going to have consequences for the training that civil servants need, and that means that then three to four days won't be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e383	The representative of Bohemia described civil servants as ‘emergency solutions’ and a temporary measure, and received partial support from the Christian People’s Party here, that when you get more trained police students, there is no need for civil servants there anymore. Is there an opinion that the Council of State shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e388	Now I sat here and listened to the representative of Bohemia and really perceived his posts quite differently, to be quite honest, just looking up against the fact that now you have so much recording at the Police College – a recording that is three times bigger than what Right managed to get when you put in government, and an appointment of 460 civilians, which is far more than what we saw under the previous government – we have an opportunity not only to imagine that civil servants should help keep the fort in relation to police force, but also to be able to get even more police force than we had just a few years ago. It's a fine ambition, and I believe that the government's management of civil servants, once we've got it carried forward in the future budgets too, after this crisis package came, shows that it has a very small cut of temporaryity over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e393	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e398	The right is very pleased that an overall judicial committee supports the principle that police education should be based on a Bachelor's degree, a higher education course, and that we should train generalists to serve in the police, because, as it says, different roles should be filled at different times. Of course, social developments, including the development of crime, do not stand still, and in order to meet this in the field of crime, we need police officials and women who can meet a wide range of challenges. The Judicial Committee has had a good opportunity to see the importance of civil servants in the field of justice, including: during our visits and inspections at the Gardermoen border control, during visits to Kripos and the Oslo Police District. Here we see a good interaction between the police professionals and the civil servants. That's exactly what's behind the Right's proposals that we're dealing with now, that's meeting progress so that we can use these resources in a better interaction. The majority refer to crew plans when we are going to deal with this matter here today. It's an underlying tone based on that the status quo is good, and that everything is good. The right is calling for more dynamism in this development. Manning plans are well and good, but we hear very little about responsibilities. That's what's important to us. What we miss is an overall vision – in the professional language it's called a strategy – that allows us to avoid and prevent professional conflict in the field of justice, so that we can jointly use all the good resources we have in the field of justice, to prevent crime, to be even better at prevention, and also to facilitate even better rehabilitation and better repatriation for ready-made people. That's the big picture we're looking at here, and then crew plans are good, but it's also the division of tasks that we want to see in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e407	Just a little bit of clarification, because the representative Octay Dahl's ability to misunderstand here was maybe a little bit in the largest team. I just want to say that there's going to be a difference here. The number of police trainees per year was around 230–250 in 2002–2003, i.e. one-half of what is now being discussed, with 720. Then there were not enough trained people from the Police College to have enough police trained to employ. Obviously, it's a different situation than when we get enough police officers from the Police College to hire where we'd rather have police-trained people in the functions, such as. Patrol, where, as mentioned here, you could imagine using civilians. The kind of solutions where we most need fully trained police officers, we'll now be able to get. And then I would like to say to the post that Mr. Werp made, that we fully agree that we should bet offensively on civil servants in the police and in our agencies. We now get a better basis to bet where they can improve functions, and where they have the skills to go in and improve. I mentioned a number of fields, and the Council of State mentioned a number of fields. It is an important part of the results reform that is now coming. One of the reports that will be sent out to the hearing deals with this: how to bet on civil competence in the future. And at least there's a commitment that we're going to increase the number of civil servants by 2020 – 1000 civil servants – and there might be more than that. So here we have a common offensive starting point, that we will use more civil servants to improve the police and our agencies – in every area where they can. This should be a positive, offensive debate in Stortinget, and I would like to emphasise that in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 839]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e432	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e441	Many things get a nuanced picture as they progress. And I think this case might be proof of that. This does not mean that the Progress Party disregards the need for the Stortinget to have submitted a major case. I'm referring to the fact that the committee together says: ‘It can be seen that this field has been characterised by development without any form of efficiency and structure thinking as a basis.’ It could not have been better said by the Committee. There has been no lack of input to get a wider debate about becoming more effective and changing structures, but there has never been an initiative – not since 2001, when a reorganization was adopted, where the Progress Party and the Right were the only parties that voted against. Since that time very much has happened in this field. The number of asylum seekers has become very high and unfortunately the apparatus has not been included. This is not least seen in the debate that is going, and has gone, around the number of asylum recipients, going up and down. There is also a debate about employees. The procedure has been increasing and, as both the Committee and the State Council refer to in their letter, it is therefore 240 days. Of course, it's totally unacceptable, and it's proof that there hasn't been enough focus on becoming more effective. When you then have appeals in many of these cases, it is natural that you should have seen wider in the whole area. I also refer to the position, where the municipal committee supports the majority, that is the government, in increasing capacity. Maybe the starting point for all of us should be that we should have reduced capacity. However, this means that more action is needed to reduce the number of asylum seekers who use the institution of asylum in a not entirely correct way. But here one builds up an apparatus and increases the capacity, because probably then to deal with the intentions of asylum seekers you have. For this reason, the Progress Party believes that there should have been a major and comprehensive case before the Stortinget, where it had integrated what is going on and action beyond what has already been carried out in relation to the number of asylum seekers. Schengen, Dublin – there are many issues that have emerged in the last year, which are challenging to become more effective in the process. Not least, it's about clarifying identity. We've got an ID center, but I'm not so sure it's particularly ideal for those who don't have an ID at all. Then you get a problem related to looking for an ID. Therefore, the Progress Party is not as sure as the majority when it is simply established here that the reorganisation that is coming is good enough, and will provide more efficiency and more success security, the ID Centre in spite. I will end with a wish: we should already, at this point, have had clear plans for the development of information channels. I note that the Council of State places a lot of emphasis on this being done in cooperation between two directorates. I believe that the Storting should have been on the track there to a much greater extent, to also contribute in this way. Finally, I would like to support the proposal tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. At the same time, I would like to signal that if the proposals of the Progress Party might fall, we will of course vote in favour of the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e465	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e468	The proposal by the Right, which we are discussing here today, that the police should continue to be responsible for clarifying the identity of asylum seekers and thus ensure the same information as it is today, I agree – it is also evident from the Council's response to the Committee. This is, of course, about how we can reduce the length of the procedure, how cooperation between the Foreign Affairs Unit and the UDI in asylum matters can be made more effective, how they can be better coordinated – getting a better structure and interaction in their efforts to reduce the time spent on processing. However, there is no doubt that the police will continue to be responsible for receiving and registering asylum-seekers, making the identity interview as soon as possible, being responsible for everything related to forced police, i.e. visitation, investigation, detention under the Foreign Affairs Act, responsibility for forced return, etc. UDI has its part, which is a registration interview, and it is those who take the decision. But the role of the police in identifying IDs will be in place, as it is today. There is a clear need for the police to get in early, because there may be important things in the luggage of those who come – things they bring with them that the police can seize by means of their coercive authority, and that can make it possible to secure the identity as quickly as possible. So what's a little unclear to me about the proposal is: what's the disagreement in that part of the coordination between the UDI and the police on asylum issues? That is also evident from what the case-rapporteur said in his introduction; he is concerned about explaining this: there is a development in the matter. There has now been cooperation on a working group linked to the Police Directorate, where the trade unions and the various actors involved in the interaction between the police and the UDI have worked to reach common conclusions and recommendations – how this structure can be as effective as possible and giving the police and UDI their fullest possible precise and good role. So if the Right's proposal that the identity of asylum seekers should be guaranteed the same information as today, etc., could be transmitted to the government, that would be an advantage for this debate. The parties to the Government cannot vote in favour of anything which is already at the root of this work and which is reflected in the Council of State's replies, etc. So I hope that through the debate you can take this as a necessary and good depression – as a comment in this process. But I don't think there's any disagreement that the police should have their clear role in this ID work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e475	In the Right's view, it's important that we from Stortinget's side have a continuous focus on the foreign administration, because it's a field that affects a lot of areas like this hall, and the representatives here are working on it. The first line project has Right-wing support in this context, because it aims to increase the efficiency of foreign management: faster processing, better quality of service – not least ensuring the legal security aspect which is, of course, crucial in a democracy and a rule of law. The right to promote this proposal for a representative is, therefore, to support the first-line project, to be in favour of that process. But we think there are elements in this that still need, and have room for, improvements. I would also like to stress that the human dimension of asylum matters with rapid and good care is extremely high, because it is important that we treat those who want to come to Norway and settle here, in such a way that they feel both cared for and treated in a fair manner. In these processes, in the opinion of the Right, the police have an important role, so we have promoted this proposal. In our opinion, it is important to protect the institution of asylum as a system. The police have experience, powers and competence in ID registration, visitation – not least the police need to ensure the necessary information in this field. We see a development of cross-border crime growing, where not least this with human smuggling gets an ever-increasing place, unfortunately. Therefore, the Right believes that the police still have an important role to play in this picture. On 19 October, the Justice Committee was invited to a UDI and police briefing – a very good orientation that provided many useful clarifications. One of the clarifications was that the police would continue to have important tasks in the field of asylum. It was important for the Right to clarify, because it wasn't like that earlier in the process, as the previous speakers referred to. At that time, uncertainty was created, and the uncertainty in which the Right wanted to be clear – not only that, but also a signal that we want, and underline, that the police should have a task related to asylum issues. But the statement on 19 October gave important clarifications, so we're happy with what we heard there. We still want to focus on this area – as I said at the outset. We don't want by any means from the Right to delineate the administration, it's not up to this hall to do it. But it is up to this hall to give clear political signals. That is what the Right does, namely that we want to underline the police's duties and responsibilities. I note the representative of Bøhlers – what I feel is an invitation to the Right to submit our proposal for further consideration. I will take a quick consultation with the fraction, and then I will come back with an answer to that question, but until further notice I will address the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e486	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e489	I have previously argued from this pulpit that there are some 42 million people around the world looking for a safe port. They're persecuted people, they're people in search of security from torture, from rape, etc. 42 million people. Most of them seek refuge either in their own country or in neighbouring countries. There are very few of them who are able to come and knock on our door, and we believe – both the government and the Swedish government – that they should be treated with respect and dignity. In it is that we should do everything we can to ensure that their applications are handled quickly, efficiently and thoroughly. Those entitled to protection shall receive it as soon as possible, and those who do not have it shall also receive a clear and prompt response, so that they can leave the country for the first time possible – again to give dignity and space to those in need of protection. The reform that the government is now working on is precisely this: to spend the least possible time, to use the least possible hands, the least possible desks, to go through one and the same thing. We remember that for a while back – under the previous government, I mean to remember – we had a so-called 15-month rule. It meant that the capacity was so small that people sat for a long time waiting for a response to their applications, and those who did not receive a response within 15 months were allowed to stay. It is not certain that they had a claim to it, but since we did not have the capacity, they simply stayed because they were not allowed to deal with their matters. The next point the opposition raises is a legitimate point. That's where I think there's cross-political consensus in the whole Biggest. The identity of those who come to the country must be clarified, and be sure, so that we know who is on Norwegian soil, and how we are going to treat it. It cannot be ruled out that there are people with unclean flour in the bag. There the government has assured us that the job will be done in at least as good a way as today. The police shall have access to information on all who come to the country. All necessary information must be transferred to the police, so that they can do their job properly and in a good way. Then I believe that at the starting point we agree with the intentions. But we see that the government is already doing that job in a good way, and we have confidence in the job done. The size has asked to be continuously orientated, and I'm sure we're going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e496	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to reduce the process of asylum seekers. This is actually a human being waiting for his life. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to ensure that the human beings who do not know how their fate is determined will have to wait as short as possible. We would like the work done to streamline the procedures to ensure that children and families can be informed more quickly about the reasons for stopping in Norway, or whether they should be sent home. In this way, we share the Right's view that the police will continue to be responsible for clarifying the identity of asylum seekers and ensuring the information they have today. I think it is right that the police should spend more resources on police work and less on proceedings. But on the basis of the representative, Mr Bøhler, and to the extent that the representative, Mr Werp, was involved in – but especially Mr Bøhler – I believe that the intention behind Right's proposal is already under way. So we don't share the same concern, but I'm happy for the representative Bøhler's post and his corresponding attitude. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that a person should take care of both needs – both in order to get a better process and to ensure that the police receive the information they need. It is also our opinion that a new division of labour between the police and the UDI needs to be evaluated. In such an evaluation, it is particularly important that both the length of proceedings and the police's ability to fight criminal activities that undermine the institution of asylum should be stressed. It is also the case that the institution of asylum is being abused in certain cases. Previous debates in this Chamber, including: on organised crime has also highlighted the need to ensure that one looks at that part, so as to keep abreast of the plight of the asylum institution. But I see it this way, as I said, that most of the needs are already there, so for the Christian People's Party, we don't need to vote in favour of the proposal, and we support the vote of the Committee that it is attached to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e509	I am pleased with the support that this type of action receives from all parties. We're really talking about the process and the kind of considerations to take care of. But I would like to stress: I feel as the biggest challenge – in addition to having effective decisions taken in the foreign administration – that decisions are coming faster than they are today. That is why we are doing the steps that are now being proposed in the first-line service, but also what we are doing in the field of asylum. I strongly reject the representation of the representative Sandberg that this is something that has just been waiting. Since 2007, the government has been making good efforts to make administration more efficient, launching good projects, and that is what is at the root of the reforms we are about to embark on. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, the UDI and the Police Directorate have jointly investigated and proposed the reorganisation of the handling of housing cases, i.e. the first line project, and proposed changes to the initial asylum procedure, and there are two different processes. So for the housing issues: in terms of the reorganization of application procedures for housing cases, these assessments have not yet been completed, but it is just around the corner. The purpose is to have a faster and more efficient handling of the housing matters, and to provide better service. I fully agree with Mr Werp: this is about humanism. Most of the applications for a residence permit are submitted from foreign stations. The police can grant some types of cases where applications can be made from Norway, and a large degree of the application procedure consists of renewal of applications. I want the police to focus on their core tasks, which are crime control and prevention. UDI shall process and decide on applications. In Europe, Norway is one of the few countries where the police are involved in the application process of the housing cases themselves, and the police are largely civil servants handling housing applications. The police in their time were given responsibility for dealing with matters because the police are in many places in the country; it was not part of an overall strategy or plan. New technological solutions and fewer personal attendance requirements no longer require the same physical presence. Police shall continue to have tasks related to their core tasks, such as dealing with expulsion cases, establishing expulsion cases, territorial checks and tasks which require coercive authority. Identity assessments are usually not a major problem in housing cases. Most provide evidence of identity when applying for a residence permit. It has also been raised as a concern that the police will lose the opportunity to resolve criminal cases and to combat the organised crime that is taking place if the police are no longer to be responsible for receiving and handling residence requests. I believe that crime prevention and control must be carried out in ways other than through the application process of the housing cases. It will be important to ensure good practices and remedies for the police to receive information from foreign affairs necessary for the fight against crime. Police-trained persons released as a result of the reorganisation shall not be transferred to the UDI but will be used to strengthen the other police work, i.e. a win-win situation for both sectors. So to the initial asylum procedure, which is really the subject of the debate here: With regard to the initial procedure for asylum seekers, POD and UDI have investigated a new model to which the government has agreed. Organisations have been involved in this process — and as far as we have seen — also joined. The Government has decided to follow the recommendations of the initial asylum procedure. ‘Initiative asylum procedure’ means the receipt and registration of asylum seekers. Decisions in the cases are taken by the UDI. Police shall continue to receive and register asylum seekers and conduct an identity conversation. Police are also required to carry out enforcement tasks, such as visitation, investigation and imprisonment under the Foreign Affairs Act, and the police are, of course, responsible for the forced return of those who are not legally resident. The UDI will conduct a brief registration interview during the initial phase, so that simple cases can be settled immediately. I think it is worth stressing that the identity work on asylum matters is still going to be with the police, and that the police are being assured of the information they are receiving today. The proposal by the representatives is therefore, in my opinion, well attended to with the new model, but that is the basis for paying attention to it, and therefore I support the request that it be converted into a transmission proposal. The creation of the new National Identity and Documentation Centre, NID, will help to strengthen the work of identity. It is now decided that the Centre should be subject to the Directorate of Police and not to the Foreign Office of the police. The center formally opened November 15, 2010, not many days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e535	It's going to be line change, up to five lines. The first representative is Per Sandberg, who, as far as the President understands, has asked for one line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e539	At least for now. I noticed that the Council of State again rejected what the representative Sandberg said in his post. But I'd like to quote from the setting. There is a unanimous committee which expresses the following opinion: ‘It can be seen that this field has been characterised by development without any form of efficiency and structure thinking as a basis.’ The Committee, collectively, further states: ‘This has resulted in a direct system of individuals as losers in the form of long proceedings. The fact that a case has been dealt with by every county office and police station around the country has probably led to different proceedings, which in turn harms legal certainty." There is an overall committee behind this, and then my question is, is the Council of State still disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e556	One of the reasons we've actually gone into this – creating reform and putting the system back on – is the great deal of the description Per Sandberg quotes from the committee's position. The fact that there have been a lot of police units dealing with these issues, and different practices, creates a legal security challenge, but it creates not least a challenge in terms of speeding up the decision-making process. That's why I think it must be good to actually do what you are doing now in relation to asylum treatment, which everyone agrees on, even the organisations. Then it is my hope – when we have such broad agreement on that too – that the reform will be successful, so that we can bring down the process of asylum matters, which we already see is in the process of being able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e564	That was a pretty simple question. I reacted a little to the fact that the Council of State in its article took a distance from the posts signed where I quoted from the setting. And I try again: does the Council of State agree with what an overall committee says in its position and the description given – regardless of what the undersigned, that is, the representative Sandberg, said in the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e569	I have to repeat this: I believe that the committee's description is comprehensive, mainly because it is seen that the procedure is too long and that there are different results. At the same time, it does not mean that neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Labour, when they were responsible for these cases in 2007 and 2008, did not take action to do anything about this. The whole background work for the first-line project and the asylum procedure also began with thorough investigations and thorough efforts to reform in 2007. And it's also quality-guaranteed according to the Ministry of Finance's QA regime, which has helped us to reach a decision today, and that's what we're about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e574	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e579	I'm going to be very brief: the right is redrawing its proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e584	It's noted. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 840]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e602	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e611	The entire Judicial Committee notes that the objective of maximum police coverage, regardless of whether there will be any difference of opinion as to what this means and how to achieve the objective. In this case, five different proposals for decisions are made by the representatives of the Right. I will make brief references and comment on some of these according to the agreement of the committee. I would like to comment on the proposal for a representative on behalf of the Government Party and the Central Party. The proposal points to a need for a wide-ranging police study, with the aim of enabling the police to deal with developments in crime in the future. In addition, the proposers ask for a case to be submitted on the so-called performance reform, for the police coverage to be strengthened by 2020, and for a critical review of the role of the Police Directorate in strengthening the professional governance of the police action. It is clearly important that the use of resources in the police is carefully reviewed. The resources available at any time need to be used in the best possible way to ensure that people throughout the country feel safe and know that the police are there when needed. Therefore, reviews of resource use will be important. And that's exactly why the Police Directorate has already carried out a thorough operational analysis and an evaluation of the crew in the police case. POD has recently provided various reports to the Ministry of Justice, such as: deals with the district structure of the Police and National Police College, internal administrative functions and increased use of civil service. The question now is whether more analysis is needed or whether time is needed to act. I mean, it's the last one. Analysis already carried out will be part of the basis for the warning of the results reform. It is a long-term and targeted work that needs to be done to ensure a good police coverage. The Red-Green government has been doing it for the last five years, has been just long-term and focused. We have laid the groundwork for a substantial increase in the number of graduate police students – over a double since the previous government ruled on justice policy, which is a commitment to be able to add more people to the department. In addition, we have increased the rights of the police by 3.3 billion. kr in the government period. And then you're not going to say that this is enough. The bet must continue. The goal we all share is to make better use of the resources of the police and the county council. Finally, a comment on the proposed critical review of POD’s role, mandates and powers. In the Center Party, we are generally positive that one looks at the different governmental directorates' role and their function with a critical look. The rapporteurs point out that the review should aim at improving the professional management of police activity, which is obviously important. But I would like to stress that for us in the Central Party, it is an objective that there should be the greatest possible degree of political governance, and that this is also a desired result of the reviews that must come from the role of the various directorates. The Committee agrees that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e632	The representative proposal gives a good opportunity here in Stortinget to review how police capacity planning is working, many questions about strategies in the years to come. There is a systematics in the work being done by the government, which I would like to highlight. After the police role report, as presented by the previous government, was dealt with here at Stortinget, the new government started working on what was called the Police Directorate's report on police personnel and competences towards 2020. It called the police against 2020, was presented in 2008, and drew up plans, among others. in the case of 2 700 new police officers and 1 000 more civil servants by 2020, as we were here earlier today. In the extension of the work of the police force towards 2020, the Directorate of Police and the Ministry began work on an operational analysis of the police and officers' seat. The operational analysis produced a very important knowledge of resource use and allocation — how to prioritise and allocate resources around the police districts. A number of proposals were put forward by the Directorate in the extension of the operational analysis, which was the basis for the next phase of work, namely work on the reform of results, which is now under way, and in which documents will be sent out for consultation in a short time. The reform of results will deal with fundamental issues regarding how we use the resources we are now deploying into the police, how we use the structure and development of the police — the county offices, districts — to maximise efficiency, the best possible results for the population, the fight against crime, and how we, among other things. use civil servants, as we were here earlier today. Strategies in terms of personnel have their own work in the Police Directorate as part of the performance reform. Important things that have been discussed here by the Storting concern, for example: measurement criteria for the police. We have seen that there are some types of measurement criteria that may be too narrow to capture a broad police effort, for example. how different police districts should better interact with organised crime. It may be disrupted by narrow measurement criteria where efforts only benefit one or the other police districts. We lack good prevention measurement criteria, and we have pointed to a number of weaknesses in the way the report of results from police districts is based on today. That part is also an important part of the work on the reform of results. The same is true of the work on the ICT systems in the police, which we rely on to speed up the improvement of if we are to meet the targets we have in the sector. The big news that comes before Christmas about organised crime will also be a very important contribution to the analysis, studies, strategy for police Norway, for how we deal with such an important and heavy part of crime – among others. how the interaction between police districts is to be triggered, be effective and set in motion rapidly when the need arises for this interaction in the fight against organised crime, which is nationwide and international. It is a question of how the Stortinge will be informed, how the performance reform will come up on the Stortinge. The government has announced that it will come back to us. This is a fundamental work on the police in the years to come, and I am sure that the government will have a good track record on how the Storting should discuss those questions. Here there is a comprehensive process of what the proposal deals with, and I think it is a good opportunity to deepen these processes here in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e649	The police generals are important, and the near-police model with the generalists is the basis for how the police today will solve their mission and not least tomorrow's mission. When dealing with a previous case, I said that innovation in the criminal environment is great. Creativity and ability have almost no limits in this area. It is therefore important that the police and the authorities that direct the police's mission, their ability to think new and forward-looking. In this context, it is important to analyse both yesterday’s and today’s developments in crime, while at the same time looking forward to it. It may be difficult to predict how crime will develop in the future, but based on both the knowledge we have in Norway and, at least, internationally, it will be possible to see trends and then to take the right steps to combat future crime. Both police and research communities in Norway and internationally possess a lot of material on crime. These reports, analyses and studies are important individual actions, but it is important to gather all the material in order to give an overall assessment, then to take the right measures and to sharpen the most effective areas of action and to provide the police with the right tools to combat the crime of the future. If one is to have the opportunity to plan and organise the work of the police, such a study with an overall assessment will be an important factor. We have to look at what kind of crime we have, and when and where we have it, and then see what can happen in the years to come. This will also be a good basis for looking at the organisation of the police action. First, consider what tasks the police should have – if they have the same tasks as today, do they have more or fewer tasks? Then an assessment can be made of the number of police districts and county offices, staffing, equipment, etc. A well-organised police force allows resources to be used as efficiently as possible. This applies to both person and competence resources and economic resources. A study should also focus on recruiting the police. It is important for well-qualified applicants to work as police and to make a career in this profession. At the same time, it is equally important to keep those who are already working as police. It is important to maintain their experience and competence. We know that the competence of police officers is sought after in civil professions as well. Work environment, well-being, is important for the police to thrive, and for them to be able to stand in their jobs. But there's another factor that's at least as important, and it's pay, along with work environment and well-being. I hope that an in-depth assessment will be made of these aspects of a police study, so that we can retain the expertise we have in the police, and so that we can add new competences to those who are willing to work as police, like their entire professional career. The skills of experienced policemen, we don't want to lose. The working environment and wages are important factors in keeping them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e666	Would the representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, like to comment on the suggestions on page 3 of the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e669	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e674	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen then addressed these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e677	The right proposal for a police study is quite another one that the government parties and the Council of State stand for. The police directorate’s crew study does not have the corresponding long and broad perspective and does not see the overall tasks of the police in the context of the tasks and responsibilities of other actors in the same way. There is therefore a need for a police study that has a 20–25 year perspective to ensure good planning. Key developments in cross-border crime, terrorist threats in Norway’s areas of interest, police tasks and aspects of the development of crime and society in Norway will set important premises for the size of the Norwegian police force over the next decades, and the overall need for resources must be seen in this context. Knowledge and analysis from a long-term perspective are important for both investment, method development, organisation, team situation and police ability to solve the tasks assigned. A police study should also, not least after what we have seen recently, involve a review of the organisation, tasks and allocation of resources of the Police Security Service linked to developments in the areas under the responsibility of the PST. Cooperation with civil defence and access to relevant defence equipment are central to the effective and reassuring functioning of the police. There are also good socio-economic reasons why such resources should be seen in a context. Such a study should provide the basis for a long-term police plan that allows stability in police planning and is sustainable over time. In fact, the reports of the National Audit Office from 2009 and spring 2010 demonstrated that such a police study has been, and still is, necessary. The way we're going to upgrade completely necessary ICT equipment is an example. It appeared as a paradox that many hours and many pages were used to show how much detail is being directed towards an increase of up to two or four police districts with specific tasks, while last year the Stortinge was not familiar with the sum to be drawn in to redispatch from operating budgets to a central ICT investment. It's necessary, but it's something the Storting should have known. This year, it's probably 250 million. kr. But it's pretty little satisfactory that the Storting carries the mark of participating in some kind of quiz where we have to guess what's going on, and I therefore refer to the proposal of my own case to the Storing about the ICT bet that Right has promoted. The right is open to structural debate and, of course, will always be willing to look at the organisation of the police and the sensitivities. But the premise for that is clear: I see it that the State Secretary at the national meeting of the Joint Police Union in Alta was also ready for it: the goal, like the Right's objective, is that any changes will help bring more police force out to the population, no less. In Police Norway, there is a lack of a standard for staffing in each police district. Because it is a significant challenge that watchlists cannot be compared to what has been defined in advance as the real need for police force at each location at all times. Such answers could be obtained through a wide-ranging police study. With regard to the point of review of POD's duties and responsibilities, you should not believe everything in the VG, but it is quite useful to look at it, because the characters given to both the police director and some police officers show that there is room to strengthen management competence both in the POD and in the individual police districts, as well as the resource situation. Then I will end by saying something I could not say during the previous case because of this amazingly fine new voting system that you press and press, but do not get the word anyway. That's why I'm doing it now. It has already been said how great a escalation has been at the Police College – yes, there have been right parties and all opposition parties – but what has been discussed less often is that during the years 2001–2005 there has not been a single proposal from the Council of State, the Workers' Party or the SV to increase the recording. It started in 2003, under a centre-right government, with the support of the Progress Party. Then you can wonder what the reason for that is. If you knew so much in the period 2001–05, why didn’t you propose more, and why did you wait until after you came to the government offices yourself, until 2007, by continuing the recording that the Progress Party and the Centre – the Right Government started in 2003? Now, the challenge is to get jobs for those of whom we train a lot. They now warn that they are applying for private employers, they have their own fairs where they are trying to make themselves available to private teachers. That's okay, but we all want them to work in a good, competent police department, and that's why we also need a police study.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e692	The Christian People's Party supports the demand for a wide-ranging police study. I believe that experience shows that we need to develop more comprehensive studies and analyses to further develop and strengthen the police against future challenges. I understand from the representative Bøhler and from the government party that they are very happy with the work that has been started in this area, but it is not the Christian People's Party. For example, the police’s own operational report for the period 2002–08 concludes that fewer officials have become visible in the public order service. It shows a lack of ability to follow up and implement the most unambiguous and clear signals from Stortinget. For this is contrary to Stortinget's intentions with the police reform of a closer and more visible police force. The recent investigation by the National Audit Office into police action against organised crime is another example. The national audit is partly craved in its criticism of the efforts in this field, a field under which the Storting has repeatedly prioritised both national and international work. Among other things, it is pointed out that there is a lack of a holistic and overarching strategy for work. The governance dialogue with the police is deficient, and the government gets criticism that there are no more targets and results for police action in this area. The acute situation with regard to the ICT resolution of the police was also recorded here. It is a critical point for the police to be happy in the fight against crime in general and organised crime in particular. The Minister of Justice himself acknowledged that ICT has been a priority for several years. A holistic and comprehensive police analysis can help prevent the clear priorities of the Storting from being followed up, and that the kind of fatal down-priorities that it is not to equip up the ICT system should not be allowed to happen. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposalers' intention to strengthen the police coverage. It is clearly necessary to strengthen the capacity of the agency to meet pre-prevention challenges and the fight against crime. Today's situation in the police forces means that a number of priorities that go on people's legal systems, such as: Repeated abductions of cases with a known perpetrator, down-priority of profit crime, which will make Norway an even more sought after place for criminal gangs from abroad, and not to be cleared up in some areas of the largest cities. To meet this, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has in every alternative budget we have put forward under the red-green government, prioritizing greater promises to the police's operating budget. Norway today has the poorest police force in Scandinavia, and police districts have warned that their economic situation requires cutting positions in the future. We clearly need a more offensive policy to strengthen recruitment, make sure that newcomers get into work, get more civilians into relieving roles and get seniors to do more work. In particular, it is important to facilitate active senior police policies by providing the individual police officer with better tools to keep up with the most experienced workers for a few more years. When the Christian People's Party still votes against proposal No. 3, from the Right Party and the Progress Party, to strengthen the police coverage up to Swedish level by 2020, it is because we do not see that what is currently Swedish level is a good and stable goal to steer Norwegian policies. The Christian People's Party also sees it as of course that the government will present a case to the Stortinget on the reform of results, and sees no reason for the Stortinget to impose any regulations in this way. So the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 4, but against the proposal No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e713	I will be as short as possible, because I am at the same position as I presented to the Stortinget in 2008 when a parallel proposal was up. This is a debate on what is needed in fact to take political decisions. Then you can make a debate out of it, as the representative Ropstad now made an effort on, on police resources, on the number of posts and on how crime develops, which can be very extensive. I just have to say that I very much disagree with the description of the development of crime and the efforts of the police as expressed by the representative Ropstad. For example: In Norway, a joint Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs concluded that no action was taken; it was precisely decided to give a favourable hearing to the Norwegian police in a very positive hearing following the National Audit Office’s report on organised crime. So where the Christian People's Party is getting it from that one has deprioritized this effort, I'm very surprised. Then you should have known your visit to the Control and Constitutional Committee. What we have seen in the last year is a massive effort, massive coordination and, fortunately, also a significant decline in profit crime, committed by some travelling profit criminals. So I would recommend that in this debate too we show a certain degree of audacity and not throw ourselves at waves and impressions that are created in the media, because the police also deserve positive attention when we really manage to get as good results as we have. With regard to the issue of the reform of results and the analytical basis that is now before, the government's view is that now we have enough to get to work and complete this reform. I record that the Right is reusing its proposal for a police study, but we believe from the government that we have enough. We have also used some of the debates in advance today to point out what kind of analysis has actually been carried out in terms of staffing – the crew report and operational analyses. We have descriptions of the development of crime in several areas, both organised crime, the crime the police security service is going to deal with and other types of crime, which is more than enough, at my discretion, in order to take good political decisions linked to making the police even more effective. It is also the case in the case of organised crime, that the Storting has been notified that the news of organized crime is coming in a short time, just to attract that picture to a greater extent. And starting a wide-ranging study, as you're asking, which contains almost everything, is not, in my opinion, a reasonable use of resources either in the ministry or out in police Norway. I look forward to also discussing with Stortinget the conclusions reached in the performance reform. I have said that we should inform the Storting in an appropriate way. I add that during 2011 this work will be completed. We will also have ample opportunity to discuss the structure and effectiveness of the news of organised crime, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e727	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e730	The Council of State says we're training more and more policemen, and we want to get two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. In a previous case, I asked the question whether this was the figure for an overall police force or whether it was for operational police. The answer then was that we're training more, that there are more police officers, and that we're assuming we're going to achieve that goal. I have to repeat my question, because it is a little important to know whether this is an overall police force including bureaucrats, what some people call paper movers, and leaders, or whether it is operational police when we talk about having two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. In fact, it is crucial how many policemen are in the street doing operational work on both patrols, investigations, etc. So my question is, is there a total police force that goes under these two per 1,000, or is the operative police?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e739	As far as I recall – but now I'm going to go back in the documents – it's clearly defined in the crew report and the crew plan towards 2020 what you want to develop in terms of the number of police officers, and what you want in terms of the number of civilians. So it's like, if you mean "operational police," policemen who are in the streets, they haven't defined it in that report, and I think it would be a dangerous development to go into. We know that much of the work that police officers do to combat crime can happen in schools, it can happen in a family violence case, it can be investigation and it can be analysis, etc. I just have to refer to that report, but since I don't have that hand here, I'm going to be careful now to take on the kick which is the concrete quote. But I think it's related to the number of police officers and the number of civilians. So I just have to say that I am happy that we are now getting so many of the newly educated, as opposed to what the Progress Party has expressed throughout the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e748	Governments are concerned with facts. That's right too. The last figures of the Central Bureau show that police coverage is now 1.6 per 1 000 inhabitants on average — the same as it was in 2005. Is the SSB wrong about the reality description, that it hasn't increased? The police students informed that on 11 November there were nine vacancies plus three vicariates to apply for. Are they also wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e753	The figures Dahl uses in the case of high school police students are used by the representative throughout the summer and in the fall. If they were to be taken into account, i.e. there are only eleven vacancies for the police high school students, it's strange that today there are 311 employees in the police force. How can it be that 311 police college students have got a job when, among other things. The representative Oktay Dahl has indicated that there are only ten – eleven and up to 20 job vacancies? As we have been reported on, and I think that must be right, there are 207 available police posts in Norway today. We've also hired 311 of the 371 who have passed the exam. So there's a lot of room here for us to also be able to hire the ones that are left over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e758	I allow myself to repeat the question: Tar Statistical Central Bureau and the students wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e763	I just have to repeat my answer. As far as the Central Statistical Agency is concerned, I have no reason to doubt their description, and that is why it is so important that we increase the recording beyond what is stated in the report Police against 2020. When it comes to the question of the number of vacancies, I just have to point out what I'm saying. I have also heard that police college students have said that there are only ten or eleven vacancies at all times. I register that 311 has got a job. Then I understand that some of the 200 job vacancies will not be suitable for police high school students. But then it's like when someone with a long experience comes up, we get new job vacancies at the bottom. That's why it seems relevant to bring forward the total number of vacancies in Police Norway when considering the possibility of getting a job. I want to ask the question back: does the representative André Oktay Dahl dispute that 311 of 371 police college students have got a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e774	The President may find it unusual that the representative is asked questions. But there is an opportunity for one line if the representative wants to answer the question from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e777	Of course, I'm happy to do that. I'm recording that the council will continue this ping-pong game about who's right. So when we deal with this, it's because there's a lot of students who are concerned, and they say in concrete terms that on November 11, there were nine plus three jobs to apply for. Then the question is, have they completely misunderstood? In the case of the Central Statistical Office, this is how the police coverage has remained still since 2005: 1.6 per 1 000 inhabitants. Then it doesn't rhyme with saying that the police coverage has improved, as you do in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e786	Anyway, it's probably the case that the Right has gradually realized that there have been more policemen, it should be lacking only when we've had such a high recording. When you measure it per capita, or per population, I believe that there is a need to base the analysis of the Central Statistical Office, but that you have increased attendance to get more police officers out. This is a development that will only be better, in the sense that when we have so big a recording and run 720 students, three times more than what the Right picked up, there are good chances that the coverage will be even better. But then I just have to say that I think everyone has a responsibility, also to the police college students, explaining that when there are 207 job vacancies – not all suitable for them – there will also be jobs that are suitable for starting and recruiting positions, when you get a boost. It might take some time. But it's a pleasure that 311 out of 371 students are now at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e793	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e799	I would particularly like to touch on our proposal No. 1, on a wide-ranging police study. During this autumn, the Stortinget has dealt with a quite large number of representatives from the Right. I mention prevention measures to prevent the entry of young people into crime, the fight against organised crime and the issue we have debated earlier today relating to civil servants in the police. I also mention the police's work on asylum matters. These are individual things that are individually very important. We can say in many ways that these proposals are part of the structure of exactly what we are going to debate now, the police study. Here, the Right calls for a basic document describing what kind of police we are going to have, which could form the basis for approaching all the individual issues that are individually important – as I have mentioned – but which also provides a more fundamental strategic approach, so that from the political point of view, and also from the Stortinge, you can gather on what efforts, what resources, what responsibilities and what actions the police and the judiciary need in the future. That is what the proposal for a police study is about. The answer also in this case and to this proposal is largely linked to individual actions, individual projects, operational analysis and performance reform. The right recognizes that everything that happens and that is mentioned by the government parties, individually, are important points for combating crime. We share that, we're going to share that with each other. What we want, in addition, is something to build all this work on, so that we, on the side of the Great Britain, can more fully discuss overall justice policy priorities in the field of justice. We're also going to spend time on individual cases, it's an important part of the political craftsmanship, but the fact that we from Stortinget's side are more able to discuss overarching issues lies in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e812	I'm now becoming a meeting plague, but I'm going to stop now – if there's nothing else. I'll only get one more minute. There was also a small attack on our friends in the Christian People's Party when they talked about reuse and throwing themselves on waves. Then I have to say that I think the Council of State is an expert in that way. When it's referred to profit-criminalism, I have to say that it's warned that profit-criminality is something you have to deprioritize, so that you can prioritise something else. It was announced in a wide-ranging NTB interview this summer. This must mean that the positive effect you have had, to which the Council of State refers, is something that the Council of State intends to build up. Then we've been told a very important thing during the debate. Over the course of five years, the government has not increased police coverage. It's been silent. It's recognized by the Council of State. It is at 1.6 per 1000 inhabitants, as it was in 2005. So even though we've had more police years, it's not become more police with the population. And then we have a fact-finding basis in place. Then the Council of State has not responded to why from 2001 to 2005 it did not have a single proposal to increase the number of places in the Police College. Why did it wait until 2007 to continue the escalation that began in 2003? You took a break, just like with the research. I think it's a little bit neat, when we're going to discuss this, that history is right. We have a common interest in increasing the number of police and police officers, and in achieving the objectives of the ‘Police against 2020’. The right-hand side would prefer to reach them by 2015. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are proposing additional funds to compensate for ICT. We're not going to go beyond the numbers that we're agreed on, that we're going to have 720 high school police students. If we don't manage to solve the situation that these coals are in so that they actually get a job and don't apply to private rather than stay in the police, we don't get them into the police and don't reach the goals that we, according to the statistics of the Central Bureau, are in deficit. When the police coverage is 1.6 per 1000 when we write soon in 2011, we are in line with the objectives of the crew report, and we are in line with the objectives all in this room have joined. Then I think we should admit that we have a problem. Then we can continue in the form of letters to discuss how many jobs they can apply for, etc., but there are not very many of the 200 jobs it refers to, which they can apply for. And when you say you can just move a little bit, it's like there's also some adult police students, with family, with children. It is not necessarily such that they can only move to North Norway, for example, where there are no jobs to apply for. The challenge is that there are no posts to apply for in the main police districts, which should be taken off for the increased hills. And that development is going to continue next year if you don't compensate for the costs that a centralised ICT investment is going to deduct from these budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 840]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e845	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e854	The representative proposal on how to fight aggressive begging is in line with what I believe is a general view, that the phenomenon of begging has developed a lot in recent years, and that different measures to combat it should be assessed. The so-called ‘disposal paragraph’, where there was a ban on begging, was lifted in 2005, before the influx of beggars from the EEA countries in Eastern Europe increased. So now we're going to stick to a law where begging is legal. This may be different points of view. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that begging has complex causes, and that social policy instruments are, to a large extent, more than criminal policies that could help reduce begging. This applies both to Norwegian and foreign beggars, but the latter cannot help Norway, except by supporting projects in other countries that can reduce poverty. At the same time, some beggars seem to belong to networks of organized criminals. Penalty felony is now allowed to be prosecuted against the backmen instead of the beggar. That's the good reason. When it comes to the representatives from the Right, about changes in the laws that allow the municipalities in the police regulations to introduce a tightening of rules against aggressive or embarrassing begging and hall, the pluralist opinion that the legislation today provides ample opportunity to expel beggars that pose a problem of order or are of so-called qualified embarrassment. Furthermore, there is already the possibility to impose reporting obligations for the hall, money collection and begging through local police regulations. This could work to reduce begging, together with other local interventions. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the letter of reply from the Minister of Justice, where it is shown that the experiences of local authorities and local police will be used to assess whether there is a need for changes in laws. The Committee recommends that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e873	The background to this case is that in 2006, the Storting decided to decriminalise begging. As far as I understand it, an aggregate increase went in at that time in order to focus on social policy instruments and get away from criminalisation. In recent years, we have seen a different development in the image of begging, in the sense that many more have come with a foreign background that begs, in the sense that begging has been more organised, and there have been new challenges associated with it. I do not think I agree with what is described in the proposal for a representative, that it has become much more aggressive begging. In Oslo, the streetscape is not marked by aggressive behavior on the part of those with foreign backgrounds who beg. They're sitting on their posts, but there's been a lot more begging now than before. Therefore, other types of problems have arisen. For example, where they stay when they do not beg, there are problems in Oslo’s urban image of sewage, and in places where they spend the night, challenges arise for the local environment, the community. There have also been suspicions that some of the same environments commit crime as well as begging. So new challenges have arisen. With regard to the old challenges raised in the proposal for a representative, to be able to reject aggressive begging, etc., we believe, as the rapporteur explained, that there are good permits today. A new tool that has been put into service, known primarily from Bergen, is to use the possibility to impose reporting obligations on beggars. You commit, as it is practiced in Bergen, if you are to beg, to report to the police. If you don't, the police give them an opportunity to do it before they're taken again, so you get an overview of who they are. They have to identify themselves, and the police can get in touch with those who are begging. In Bergen there has been an active effort in connection with that work by the police. They have contacted the beggars and put different measures in place locally. If you compare the summer of 2009 with the summer of 2010, the number of beggars in Bergen was about a third of what it was the year before. So those experiences are good, and they've used existing laws to put this into system. It is likely that they, I was saying, who are begging in a normal way within the Norwegian legislation, etc., will report to the police. They don't want any problems with that. It has also been shown that the number has been reduced. In his letter to the Committee, the Council of State warns that he will assess the experience of reporting obligations, see how they work, whether there is a need for legislative changes to improve their functioning, but it seems that using the home has produced good results until now. The Council of State also warns that he will carry out a review of the admission to expel foreign beggars from the EEA territory, without he being able to clearly indicate whether there are grounds for doing so. He will look at various issues of right of residence, whether there may be forms of trafficking in human beings that are behind certain parts of the beggar environment, which can provide the basis for a stronger strategy to combat organised begging. But the results we've seen, among other things. using today's homes in Bergen, is encouraging given that we can achieve results also with the tools we have. The efforts made in relation to problems of congestion, questions about places of residence, among other things. in the municipality of Oslo in cooperation with the departments there, has also been shown to have an effect on cleaning, in terms of imposing obligations in that context. So there are also instruments. The draft representative also mentions the possibility of using the police reserve. It seems a little unclear to me in this context why you see this as such an extraordinary situation that you have to call the police reserve, and it is also not justified in the position. We do see it as a little special and unnecessary action and an unnecessary way of thinking in this context, but the topic is important, and with this we have given our comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e901	As mentioned here, beggaring was criminalised by the release of the law in 2006, but beggaring has many aspects. Some in society are struggling and trying through begging to feed themselves. Most – I would say almost everyone – who begs, needs both food and clothing, but then there are people who need the money they beg for, for drugs. There are many sad fates among those who beg. As I said, begging has changed somewhat in recent years. Among other things, we've got some foreign beggars, foreign gangs, who turn out to be well organized, and who not only beg for themselves, but beg on behalf of someone who's behind and reaps the big winnings. These have also become more aggressive and ongoing in their way of begging, even though that's what the representative Bohemian said, that most people sit and play and have their patches and try to get money that way. But we also experience that part of those out there are more ongoing and more aggressive in their way of performing the beggar. At the same time, there's a part of them that swings over to use the beggar more like a bald hat to drive with pocket theft. It is important that one reduces this, that one brings this problem to life. The police must have the means they need to avert this. Then it is important that we, as depositors, give them the tools they want. When the government now says that the police have the tools to do this, it's probably true to some extent, but then the police say they don't have these tools. Then there will be an advantage if maybe the government and the police sit down and talk together. It's often said that talking doesn't help, it needs action. But when there's disagreement about such things, it actually sometimes helps to talk to each other to see if the police have the tools they're going to have. If they don't have them, we're going to try to give them that, and if they have them, they're going to use the tools that lie there. I think that no matter how we see it, and how those tools are and aren't, we want to get some of these problems alive, so that we can get safer streets, both in Oslo and in other cities. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the minority have put forward in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e916	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e919	We have had this debate before. It's not exactly a wish price, whether it's with or without accordions – that plays one song that some beggars can. Since 2006, the trend we are seeing has been on our heels. We are a small and rich country, with open borders, which of course is attractive for more than those we want to come here. All of a sudden, in 2010, a little bit more was understood, but you've spent four years realizing that this is a challenge. The paradox in this is that there are quite a number of municipalities around Oslo, so it is a little strange to see how they have seemed unprepared for the beggars, for example. may be so bold as to take the train for 10 minutes to Lillestrøm. So there are municipalities around Oslo who suddenly found out that they have to make a code. There is something to say that the dialogue between departments and municipalities about what actually affects local communities has not been good – just as when we discussed organised crime last week. Many municipalities have experienced that the ministry and the central authorities have not been there to assist, to inform, to show what strategy is being taken to combat what is happening locally. It was an example that was taken here, that the Municipality of Oslo had a terrible hard time working for security and security in its own city. For years one had to fight to try to get the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Justice to realize that there was a need for a foundation that gave the opportunity to reject, as the Municipality of Oslo saw the need for. Much of this is EU- and EEA-related. I hope that the Council of State says something about the thoughts of the body of which we are unfortunately not a member, namely the EU, about how Norway can be an active contributor. As far as the police reserve is concerned, it may seem so small that it is unnecessary, but the Right, with the support of the Advance Party, has since 2005 asked the government to ensure that the police reserve has access to practice and training and to clarify the basis of the detention. We've been doing that for years. There's been some kind of vigilance of the entire police reserve, which unfortunately is in the process of getting confused. We think that's sad. We think it should make more sense to use them actively, and allow them to practice and participate in challenging situations, for example. in the summer. It is the same police who are supposed to enforce the legislation as it is – or at any rate intensified – in rejecting aggressive beggars, while at the same time solving more and more winning crimes when one has summer rust with other foreigners, with or without accordions, who use the summer to commit crime on open streets in Oslo. Then I have a question that I hope the Council of State can answer in its article. It appears from the majority that begging can also be part of organised trafficking in human beings. The question then arises: When will the action plan on trafficking in human beings be completed, and when can the Storting possibly be invited to discuss new actions on this topic, which should definitely be discussed in a broader context? When we discuss this, I think it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One is that some beggars have a difficult life situation. It's important to think about the debate a little bit like the one we had when we were going to criminalize sex purchases -- many of the same mechanisms are out and going -- so that we don't risk hitting people who are in a vulnerable position, while at the same time we have to set some limits on what's fine can happen in the public space. It's not really like everyone's very aggressive, which is said here in the past, but there are several ways to practice aggression. There are quite a number of people who make contact, who feel that there are quite a number of them, for example. Akerselva combines beggaring with drug sales. I would consider that to be a fairly aggressive form of beggar business – whether it is with or without substance one time or the other, is not interesting. The point is that we have a special situation in this city – and it has spread all over the country – which means that we need a much more active department and superior authorities that are willing to take the municipalities on board and design strategies for how to jointly fight something that will not be less in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e940	Several of the previous speakers have stated that this case has a history – and I want to say a proud story. The Bondevik government proposed to decriminalise begging. It was in the realization that this is a social challenge, and that begging isn't necessarily a criminal thing. This has had two consequences. One – very natural – is that there are several who, as long as there is no criminal act, stand there begging because they need money to speculate on the income they might have, among other things. to buy drugs. The second is an undesirable consequence, namely that foreign beggars are sitting there begging. Some of them do it for themselves. They see that this is a rich country. They see that the North has a warm heart, and they like to give something to those who need it. Then we know that there are some others who are being abused, who are being forced to sit and beg of backers. It's a development that we have to take seriously. It's a development that's not lost. We've talked about this several times, and on the government's side and on the SV's side, we've thought that there are grounds in the law today that can be used, should be used, to take those that pose a problem of order, and those that are criminals. Let me mention some of them. One is the human trafficking clause in Section 224 of the Penal Code. It can be exploited. The second is the right to use the disfellowshipping home in the police law against beggars and prostitutes, while at the same time committing criminal offences, for example. by acting threateningly. Section 227 of the Penal Code may also be used. We can also use Section 350 of the Penal Code in cases where someone disturbs the general peace and tranquillity or movement. Furthermore, we can use Section 390a of the Penal Code in cases where someone is afraid or is harassing other people. In accordance with Section 7(1) of the Police Act, the police may also seize or intervene in order to: ‘stop disturbances of public order or when the circumstances give rise to the fear of such disturbances’. So there are homes in today's law. So we know that Bergen and some other municipalities are municipalities that use these homes quite actively. On Thursday I'm going to have a meeting with the Bergen police just to learn a little bit more about what they're doing, and how they think they've succeeded in taking control of those who disrupt order and order, and those who abuse and exploit people in a vulnerable situation. I also want to go into town with the Bergen police to learn how they use this in practice. My question then is, how can it be that the Bergen Police Chamber is able to do a good job, while other politicians are not doing it? We've previously asked other politicians to go to the experience of the Bergen Police Chamber, and we believe, as I used to beg, that it's not really criminal, but the abuse of someone or the abuse of begging to disrupt order is a problem, and we believe that there are legal grounds for taking this particular problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e958	I will first begin by commenting on Chaudhry's post, in which I am very much in agreement. As Chaudhry mentioned, and as several others have been in, you remove a bunch of looting vows under the Bondevik II regime. The background was, as Chaudhry was inside, that one looked at begging in another way, but not least because one saw that a required social action directed against the group that begs. To a large extent, it was drug addicts. Today, there is an entirely different situation, and then we must not hesitate to see some outdated solutions, but put in place measures that meet the situation we have today. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to amend the law so that the municipalities can introduce stricter rules on the expulsion of people who engage in aggressive begging. The Christian People's Party has long called for new measures to be taken against organised beggars, where police are better able to intervene against beggars. We also call for an assessment of a general ban on begging. The background of the Christian People's Party's attitude is clear advice from the police. They see a clear link between the organised begging and the organised profit crime. We need to give the police better opportunity to break that particular link, and we need to give the police better opportunity to intervene against begging. If you look at Oslo police district, they took about 200 foreigners for profit crime only in three months last summer. 80 pst. by that crime was made by Romanians. They're well organized, and it's related to the organized begging. As late as last night, on the TV news, we heard about new thieveriraid in new territory of the country. We can't let it slip on. Let it be clear that the Christian People's Party sees that begging is both a social and an orderly problem. We need to put in place a range of broad measures, not only in terms of regulation but also in terms of social aspects. It's an important piece of it. But we need to give the police better tools in the fight against the kind of crime that emanates from people not just possessions, but what is even more important, the security of everyday life. In addition, the resources of the police need to be strengthened in order to better address this problem. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal for a national strategy to fight organised begging can be a good contribution. Today, several municipalities have the possibility to impose reporting obligations on those to collect money, including beggars. The Christian People's Party believes that one should primarily look at the effects of the action and evaluate it, before we may consider opening up a registration obligation to sales and collection activities. When it comes to the police reserve, laws open to its use in emergency situations such as: terrorist and sabotage acts or mass riots of such a size that the police simply cannot handle the tasks. Fortunately, word disruption associated with begging has not reached that level. The Christian People's Party believes the police reserve should not be used as a substitute for the lack of economic resources for the operation of the police. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the proposal No. 2 and 3 and against the proposal No 1 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e979	I must admit that I had a great sense of the policy of the previous government when it came to the beggar problem, where the Right also took an active part. I felt it was a social liberal and social conservative feature, which I'm a little uncertain about whether the representative Oktay Dahl is still standing by, and where, when you chose to oppose Stortinget's lifting of the ban, you pointed to the dilemmas we face when we face this kind of problem. There are also several other challenges for us, whether it is right that we should use the police and justice sector towards this type of activity, which for most of us is undesirable. We don't want to see the beggars, but we don't want people to be in such a situation that they have to sit down on the street to get their living. We have, in my opinion, a major challenge in finding out whether the foreign tigers who come are part of the profit criminals who travel around. Rather, we are opposed to indications that very few of those who are now under attack for mobile, travelling profit crime are the same as sitting on the streets and beggars. What we often see is that there are women, children and other groups that contribute, among other things. to finance living at home, whether in Romania or in other countries. It is clear that an important question for us when the press rages and people want to get rid of this is: are these people on whom we are going to use police resources? I believe that the debate that is going on now is fine given the work that the government is actually doing. So we have rules that clearly say that it is criminal to organise begging, and there are clear rules in the law against aggressive, threatening and shy behaviour. There's no doubt about it. We also believe that this is a right – it has among other things. Bergen police districts used, and also some others — to introduce reporting obligations. I take seriously the signals that are now coming, that this must be known to all the police. After all, we have had a dialogue with the main police departments about this, and the police director has also, in the form of a letter, explained the possibility of introducing reporting obligations. There are good results from such reporting obligations, especially in Bergen. It must be in the context of a broad and comprehensive approach, where the municipalities have dialogue with the police, and the problem is defined together. These are people, with their variations. In addition, we are now reviewing the legislation relating to the conditions of right of residence and access to the expulsion and expulsion of EEA citizens. It's challenging – it's obvious! But we're looking at it -- we haven't concluded yet, and we'll come back to the Storting in appropriate form. It is too early to determine now whether there is access and basis for regulatory changes, but I take the signals from this debate with me. I want to say something about Bergen. In Bergen, they have implemented a street activity project since the turn of the year, among other things. in the light of many public announcements in 2009 on undesirable street activities involving ongoing and aggressive begging — the core of what this proposal is about. Among the prerequisites for the project was that begging is a legitimate business, and that the police should not discriminate against citizens in the enforcement of the law, and that cultural diversity should not be restricted. After clarifying the possibilities and limitations of the existing legislation and introducing a reporting obligation in the Staff Regulations for beggars, targeted information measures and controls were implemented against those concerned. A newly created diversity patrol made contact with the beggars and communicated the requirements and framework for the activities in question. The effort no longer came to the attention of the audience about aggressive begging in the Bergen center. The police were given an overview of those who appeared in the streetscape with begging and other activities, and were able to respond to unwanted behaviour. During the summer of 2009, there were an estimated 20–30 active beggars in the central streets of Bergen, about the summer of 2010. five to eight active beggars. These experiences I think are valuable to take with me, because it shows that something can be done about this. However, it also shows that measures can be put in place to facilitate the detection of crime — to the extent that they are — and it shows that a wide range of cooperation between municipalities can also speed up the social measures needed to help those people who sit down on the streets in order to obtain money for housing and homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e993	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e996	The committee was on its way to Romania, and then I asked a question to the police's management regarding children who were dragged to Norway to beg. Then one might say that in Norway it is legal. I asked directly if it was such that this business, which the Romanians thought was criminal because many of these children were dragged out of the country against their will, left Norway with its open role to facilitate. It was then confirmed. Many of these children are being dragged on a kind of tour, away from school, away from home environment, etc. I really want to say that these kids are being abused – even though it might be an uncle they're traveling around with to beg. Then I think, should we perhaps introduce an age limit – when one sees all these children sitting and freezing on a corner here – to defy children from being abused?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1001	I share the questioner's concern for the children. When it comes to the issue of criminalisation, if you were to think of an age limit there, I'm a little bit concerned. We don't want to criminalize the kids. Then, in that case, it had to be the adults, and towards the provision we have, and the organization. But then it's like standing behind the organization is defined as trafficking in human beings. I believe that when you have that home, especially in the cases where children are on the bus or on the plane, there is absolutely reason for the police to intervene, sail if there may be difficult things to deal with. People come on tourist visas. We don't know what to do when they're at the airport, but we see fast what they do when they're in the streets of the city. I believe in the review we now have in connection with the possibility to reject, to also get some return arrangements, especially where children are inside the picture. We are totally dependent on having a dialogue about it, including: with Romanian authorities. That's why we've had so many frequent trips to Bucuresti. So I hope, among other things. the use of EEA funds may help to facilitate the situation of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1010	I think we have cross-political agreement on exactly this field, and on how we're going to try to sort it out. Would it mean – if I read the Minister of Justice correctly – that if there is someone with a child, four to five years old, would one then automatically ask for that child to be expelled? It sounds very hard, but does someone say that this is not the type of beggar that a public has approved in relation to the lien law?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1015	I can't answer that right now, because we have a review of these rules. It is complicated with the expulsion of EEA citizens initially, but I think it is close to looking at the possibilities of getting schemes where there are children inside the picture. It is true that many of these travel back and forth within a completely legal framework — visa freedom applies, and they travel almost as tourists and are allowed to be here for a period of time. But then we are totally dependent on having good communication with the home country authorities. I have to get back to the explanation about the EEA situation regarding these, but we're going to take the recordings with the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1022	First, I can remove the possible uncertainty that the Council of State has in relation to the Social Anxiety of Right. Had the Council of State listened to my post, and not least followed the Right in terms of the criminalisation of sex purchases, which I know the Council of State was really against, but the party forced him to support something he was actually against, he would have known that the Right is for a social policy that does not affect victims. My question is: How does the Council explain that so many municipalities seem to be taken entirely on the bed and are very uncertain about how the legislation should be understood, and what opportunities it offers, while the government parties believe that the legislation is very clear and used very often?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1029	I have said that I perceive the legislation to be clear. But that it is very often used, especially when it comes to reporting obligations, I don't think I should be taken for income. That was one of the reasons why we chose to inform the police districts about this. Then I also think it is important to bear in mind that this type of activity – i.e. begging – has a varying scale across the country. We've seen some foreign beggars in other municipalities too, but it's mainly in Oslo, Bergen and the biggest cities there's been some volume on this. Hopefully, we're about to meet a new summer, when we're through a cold winter, and I hope that our clarification of the legislation, especially with regard to the EEA situation, but also the work we do within the police councils, can help to ensure that until the next summer there is no doubt about what is the rule state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1038	I also asked a question in my opening post. The action plan in relation to trafficking in human beings is deferred. When is it expected to be completed? How will Stortinget be briefed? Can the Council of State give notice of some concrete measures, a little in advance, which will be included in the action plan and which will work well in relation to the issues we address in our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1043	I cannot notify any measures. The action plan has not yet been addressed by the government, but we aim to promote it in the spring of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1048	Based on the debate, I want to ask you a question. As many people have said, the picture of beggars has changed. Since the time there were several drug users and one agreed that more social measures were needed, one now sees that there is much more organised crime. The replication with Åse Michaelsen showed that here it's about children being abused, but it's also about people being picked up for the cynical exploitation of backers. In the previous exchange of lines, one was in prostitution, and I'm very happy that the Council of State introduced the law that he did. But one also sees that there are several prostitutes walking around the streets, and the vast majority of them are of foreign origin, as one knows being abused by cynical backers. So the total is a new image. So I'm a little surprised that the Council of State is not a little bit more ‘stretched’ by launching new tools. Can the government comment on whether it is willing to use new tools when it sees that the image has changed so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1055	We have not started this work, for example: with renunciation and looking at the legislation around begging in general as we have done, without having ambitions to see if there is more we can do about it. At the same time, I would like to say when it is also claimed from the questioner that there is a great connection between begging and organized crime, that I do not reject, and it is also stated in the letter to the committee, that in some cases there may be such a connection, but we have little coverage to say that it applies in general to all beggars, even when they come from abroad. In this way, a woman from Romania who sits in Oslo streets and begs with a cup now in cold Christmas days can have the same need for social assistance as a Norwegian drug addict – as the Christian People's Party often beats its arms, fortunately. People who come often live in bottomless poverty, and some of them are also outside organized activities. I can't say the connection to organized crime is as clear as many people point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1063	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 841]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1081	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1090	For most of us, the purchase of housing is the biggest investment we make in life. A normal dwelling would cost between 2 and 4 million. In today’s Norway, large gaps in a newly purchased dwelling will be quickly remedied very cost-effectively. It is therefore important that we have legal rules that protect the interests of housing buyers in a good way. Today, when we are dealing with a proposal for changes to housing and disposal laws, it is with the aim of adapting today's guarantee rules and regulations to resales in such a way that consumers' rights are strengthened. That is why this is a good day for the country's home buyers. Another important reason why the case is under consideration is that we now receive a follow-up to the recommendations of the Building Law Committee in NOU 2005:12, where the Building Law Committee recommended strengthening the guarantee scheme in the Housing Entry Act. The consultation document of that NOU proposed an extension of the amount of the guarantee and the length of the guarantee period. The Ministry of Justice’s legislative proposal includes proposals for extending both the guarantees and the guarantee period. In today's vote, the Judicial Committee supports an extension of the guarantee period from two to five years. This represents more than a doubling of the warranty period, and that is good. In the case of clean construction operations, an extension from 5 to 10 pst is proposed. the consideration for claims incurred before or in connection with the acquisition and an extension from 3 to 5 pst. the post-acquisition consideration depending on whether or not the contract covers the land. In cases where the contract also covers the reason for the construction, an increase in the guarantee sum is proposed from 2 to 3 pst. the consideration for claims incurred before the takeover of the building. Furthermore, questions have also been raised as to the extent to which the guarantee should cover claims promoted by a successor to the purchaser against the contractor. Finally, it is also desirable to clarify the legal rules applicable to contracts for the resale of dwellings in residential projects before completion. It is good that this is now being clarified legally. In this case, as in many other cases, there is a balance between the interests of several parties. This is a typical consumer issue where it will be easy to take a unilateral stand on the part of consumers. However, it is also important to take care of contractors and housing producers in this context. Further strengthening of consumer rights could also lead to a significant increase in the construction costs of the housing producers, which could be passed on to the housing buyers at the next stage. I believe that the position we are dealing with today balances the interests of housing buyers and housing producers in a good way. An overall committee strongly supports the government's proposals for improvements. I'm pleased with that consensus. In fact, the Right is critical that the majority has not complied with the Consumer Council’s input to a greater extent, but the party has nevertheless not dared to make concrete proposals for changes. Then this becomes a game for the gallery. The Committee has registered the views on the guarantee scheme which have been expressed in the consultation round of the case and following the submission of the legislative proposal. Against this background, an overall committee is in favour of closely monitoring developments as regards the extent of cases not adequately covered by the detection of construction errors. Good contact is sought with both consumers and the construction industry in order to gain experience on the effects of the changes adopted here today. The Committee considers it important that an independent assessment of these legislative changes be carried out within five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1113	There is a need to strengthen the protection of consumers in the case of the sale of dwellings under construction. The proposals of the government are a good start. Unfortunately, the proposals have some weaknesses. In the case of sales by traders to private individuals, the private individual is the weak party in the relationship under contract law. The rules for the sale of dwellings under construction must therefore be designed to take this into account. The right considers that the government’s proposals are not sufficiently adapted to the challenges facing private individuals. The advertising period is too short and the security requirements are insufficient. It is absolutely central that those who are exposed to faults or defects in their newly built home have the opportunity to recover their financial loss. An important consideration for Stortinget when dealing with housing sales rules must be the need to reduce the number of legal disputes. This applies to the sale of both new and used dwellings. On the right, we think that we need to think again in order to reduce the level of conflict in such cases. That is why the Right has promoted its own proposal for a representative to do just that. This debate is coming back to us. A little comment to the case rapporteur, who had the word before me on the occasion of the case, who characterized the Right Negative. My reply to the rapporteur is that the representative in question will follow the proposals made in this Chamber. So one of those proposals is exactly what the representative wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1124	The main objective of consumer policy is to provide consumers with their rights, interests and security. These rights shall be exercised through good complaints, transparency and public access. It is important for consumers that the public regulates competition where market laws based on supply and demand do not work. Consumer policy affects a range of areas, including housing. Buying a dwelling is one of the largest investments that a consumer makes, and I thought the case-speaker Lillehovde described it well in his article. The objective must be that the risk of such purchases will be minimised, which will contribute to the extension of the guarantee period from two to five years. Consumers' rights are further strengthened by increasing the size of the guarantees. Market regulation must also take account of traders. I am pleased that changes to the law seem to balance well between the needs of the construction industry and more conservative rules, which benefit consumers. It is well known that not all operators in the industry provide the same quality, unfortunately. And it is particularly frustrating for tenants to have both practical and economic problems of mistakes made by contractors. Hopefully, these legislative changes will, in addition to ensuring better quality for tenants, stimulate better quality and ensure that the serious operators in the construction industry are better off than the unprofessional ones. Otherwise, I refer you to the article from the case spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1135	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1138	The issue we are dealing with today is the other important consumer issue in the housing sector The Storting has been dealing with in six months. In June, a broad majority, all parties except the Right, adopted 24 minor legislative changes in seven different laws. The aim was to stop speculation in the form of housing rights, to protect housing law as a safe form of housing, and to ensure housing buyers with more information and greater predictability. Another important consumer intervention was also taken into account in the 2010 state budget. The system of rental commissions was extended to Bergen and Trondheim. Many tenants and landlords now avoid spending time and money on ordinary judicial proceedings. Today we extend the guarantee period for the purchase of new dwellings from two to five years, and the guarantee rate is increased from 3 to 5 pst. It is important that it is safe to buy and own a dwelling. Consumer rights in the event of a purchase of a dwelling are an important part of this. The government and the red-green majority have taken important steps, but there is still room for improvement. Recently we could read about Inger Spangen, who bought an apartment near Årvoll shooting range in Oslo. She did everything she could to understand the noise conditions: she contacted the municipality and built it, got involved in the regulation plan and the noise measurements that had been made. The tension prided itself on the noise calculations that the municipality had used – a maximum of 40 decibels. After moving in, it turned out that the noise level was much higher – it was 60 decibels. The tension went to court, but lost and was ordered to pay the costs of NOK 700000. The court said she should have understood that the noise calculations were uncertain. As the case is made in the media, Inger Spangen has done everything that can be expected of a housing buyer. The judgment suggests that unrealistic demands are made as to what a purchaser should be able to find out. As the rapporteur has explained, today's legislative proposals are a result of the need to protect consumers balanced against the need to avoid substantial increases in construction costs. It is important that new dwellings are built. In the second quarter of 2010, according to the Central Statistical Office, the construction of 4,309 new dwellings was started. That's the lowest number of more than ten years. It's alarming. Ensuring consumer rights through the purchase of housing is an important policy objective. At the same time, it is important that the construction industry has a framework for building new dwellings. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1151	That construction errors are a widespread problem, there seems to be broad political consensus about. Too many families have useless houses and large bills after the purchase of housing. That we now have a series called Build & Deception on TV3 says something about the cases that should have been extremely rare, unfortunately, for too many people in Bolig-Norway everyday life. The right considers that there is reason to believe that consumer rights in the case of home purchases are too weak. We have taken the consequences of this, and have made a proposal in the Grand Duchy on strengthened consumer rights in the purchase of housing. Here we propose, first, that the government should present a case to the Stortinget to introduce a 10-year period of warranty and compulsory construction insurance or guarantee in the case of the purchase of a new dwelling. Secondly, we propose that the government submit a case to the Storting that discusses the use and consequences of the as-the-e-reservoir on disposal purchases. Disconnecting the intentions of legislation through such a formulation can be a worrying development. Thirdly, we want a position to be taken in this case on the introduction of a mandatory state report in the case of disposal purchases. And finally, we propose that a case be submitted to the Stortinget with an investigation of the voluntary service booklet for housing. The Consumer Council claims to receive between 10,000 and 20,000 enquiries about housing problems. On average, construction errors constitute 4 pst. the value of a newly built dwelling after taking over. For a housing purchase of 3 million. kr represents, on average, around NOK 120000 in the cost of creation. Domestic purchases are also, without comparison, the largest purchases made by most consumers during their lives and must be reflected in the safety which the legislation will then provide them with. We currently have a guarantee system that will prevent the home buyer from being stuck with the bill in case of defects and defects in new dwellings. In spite of that, we have been able to read about two women from the Cyclic who bought each of their apartments in a two-man dwelling, each to $1 million. kr. The apartments had major defects, and the most necessary repairs will cost NOK 300000. The builder went bankrupt. It triggered the guarantee scheme, but the payment was no more than 30 000 to each of them. The government has made proposals to extend the guarantee scheme somewhat, and we are debating this proposal here today. In the right we believe that in the short term it is an acceptable way to increase the guarantee scheme somewhat, but it does not solve the problem in cases of major deficiencies. We are also concerned about the consequences of the extension of the guarantee scheme for business operators in the construction industry, because it can create equity and loan difficulties. However, when the Right supports the proposal now, it is because we know that our proposals will not be put in place immediately. But there can be no doubt that, with the Right's proposal for a Danish model construction insurance, consumers, like the two women from Sykylven, would escape economic ruin. Also when buying a second-hand dwelling, the legislation is little in line with the reality. If you read the examples from the case-law reproduced in the media, the practice of indemnification seems to vary considerably from one court to another. We cannot live with this. I think politicians from many parties are engaged in consumer rights. I therefore dare to express the hope that the proposal from the Right will be met with great goodwill in Stortinget when it comes to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1179	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 841]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1195	This case concerns the amendment proposed in three laws, first of all in the mortgage law, relating to the right to pledge in the deposits of their own customers. Secondly, it is a proposal to amend the Aviation Act that adapts the law to international conventions. And thirdly, it is a proposal for amendments to the debt collection law that provide a regulatory home for the exchange of information within the EEA territory. In particular, the proposal is linked to amendments to the mortgage law which have engaged the hearing bodies. The Judicial Committee has been thoroughly involved in these and is unanimous in its view that the Ministry's proposal balances in a good way the input from the hearing bodies in that case. Furthermore, it is a unanimous judicial committee that adheres to the amendments both in the aviation law and in the debt collection law, so that the whole suspension is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1202	I want to start by commending the case spokesman for a good cooperation, which has led to a coherent and common attitude to the proposition. This case is about changes in pantelova, but also about minor changes in aviation laws and incassolova. In the case of pantelova, it is discussed whether, by pledged a single claim in which the debtor and the Pantelovaur are the same person, it is possible to establish legal protection and thus whether there is universal access to pledge the claim. Today's amendment opens up the possibility for credit institutions to establish and contract mortgages on their customers' deposits in an account. So we now get a clarification in the laws that have often been a little difficult to interpret. I am aware that the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has also assessed this question and concluded with doubt when it relates to the relationship between the rules on collateral in simple claims and the non-reimbursement of the financial agreement law § 29 first paragraph – this is a difficult area. Now this doubt should no longer be present. Now we get clear rules. When it comes to hearing agencies, of which there have been a lot of them, there have been different views about this change and the clarification in the law. Some do not see the need for this change, while other hearing aids welcome this change for good and practical reasons. Consumers are better taken care of, and as we see it, it is absolutely necessary to have a clear legal clarification on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1217	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 842]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1233	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This debate is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker should normally be the rapporteur on the matter, and then it is important that the rapporteur is present when the matter is being dealt with. - He is now! Then I have the pleasure of inviting Arne Sortevik to take up the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1244	It's not always that the elevator transport in the buildings is just as predictable. We are now going to consider the position regarding the representative proposal 8:153 S for 2009-2010, from Øyvind Halleraker, Ingerd Schou, Lars Myraune and Svein Harberg on the action plan for crossing tracks and measures for increasing the capacity of goods on Norwegian rail. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and reads: ‘The size calls on the government quickly, and by the end of spring 2011, have developed and presented a separate action plan for the construction of 600 metres of crossing tracks on appropriate routes and other measures to improve rail freight capacity.’ There are proposals from the minority in the Transport Committee. It is the government parties – the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – that will themselves explain their views. There are two attachments in the case. Annex 1 is the comment of the Ministry of Transport on the proposal itself, and Annex 2 is the answer to questions put by the Committee. The question was what projects in the area of capacity-enhancing actions are planned in the second part of the national transport plan but can be implemented in the period 2011–2013 if the framework for this period is increased. In its response, the Ministry of Transport points to a number of projects which are planned in full or in part for the period 2014-2019 and which could be relevant for previous start-up and implementation. In fact, the Ministry of Transport concludes with the claim that practical opportunities are limited — i.e. to speed up implementation. It tastes both political reluctance and bureaucratic reluctance. None of the elements should prevent the performance of good actions that could increase the capacity of the network. Therefore, by the end of spring 2011, the majority would like to draw up a separate action plan for the construction of crossing tracks and other measures that could improve rail freight capacity. So a little bit about the point of view of the Advance Party. Our alternative national transport plan proposes an investment framework for the Railway Agency of 60 billion. kr in addition to the government proposal. I remind you that the Progress Party had a proposal in connection with the debate on the throne earlier in the autumn where we asked to have offices converted into state enterprises, and that these companies were given the opportunity to raise low-interest government loans to make the necessary investments in infrastructure. That proposal was only endorsed by the Christian People's Party. When I point to these two conditions, it is to emphasise that there is a need for strong investment in the railway network. To achieve this, we need to secure the financing of investments. Therefore, proposals for increased investment frameworks must be accompanied by tools that can provide funding. The use of the Avinor model at the Railway Agency is a good tool, although the Progress Party will make an important premise that not only a transformation of the Railway Agency into enterprises but also a significant effort to modernise and streamline the network. In today's situation, the railway works appear to be less renovative. With a political direction in transport that appears to be a door stop rather than a door opener for renewal, it is obvious that much needs to be done – and should be done – to speed up the modernisation of today’s rail network, including in the construction of multiple crossing tracks. When the Progress Party joins the proposal for an action plan for crossing tracks, we assume that such a plan also includes clear funding. I see we're alone on that assumption. It points to a paradox, that parties that like to spend 50 million. kr on the investigation of high-speed trains and hundreds of billions on the construction of such trains, have little extra means to improve today's rail system. If I remember correctly, I guess the Christian People's Party had an add-on to the railway sector of 100 million. kr during the planning period. It would be about. Ten million. kr annually. I guess it's barely reaching a single crossroads. You have to be very strong in faith if you think it's going to reach many. Nor have I found funds for increased railway activity in the Right's alternative budget, which has recently been presented. On the other hand, the Progress Party will have an action plan for the construction of cross-rails, but we want a clear funding related to such an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1273	In the national transport plan, the government determines that the objective is to double the freight capacity by 2020. It's an ambitious, but it's a perfectly correct and necessary goal. The rail freight competitive advantage is well known. It is more environmentally friendly than road freight. It's more effective, it's less land-consuming, and it can reduce the number of accidents on the roads. The proposers want an action plan for crossing tracks. The government’s good strategy is in the national transport plan. In addition to the objective of nearly doubling the freight capacity, it provides for the provision of freight trains of 600 metres, the increased capacity for container transport has the main priority, and there shall be a balance between the capacity of the terminal terminals and the distances between – to mention something. These priorities have been followed up in the Railway Agency’s action plan. Today, too little is going on rail freight. Last week I was in Sweden. They're way ahead of us with freight on the road. We have to get better, and we're on it. «As we speak» is construction work for crossing tracks over 600 metres in length on Ualand and Nodeland on the Sørlandsbanen west of Kristiansand, on Jensrud on Gjøvikbanen, Vålåsjö on Dovrebanen and Straumsnes on Ofotbanen – five new crossing tracks that will all be used in the next year. There are planning works for new crossing tracks on Vigrestad, Ogna, Nærbø and Bryne on Sørlandsbanen, Ygre–Vieren on Bergensbanen, Movatn and Harestua on Gjøvikbanen, Frogner on the main track between Oslo and Eidsvoll, a cross track on the Nordlandsbanen and a cross track on the Østfoldbahnen – ten new crossing tracks under planning. In addition, the extension of several existing crossing tracks is in line with the good strategy put in place. Until we get continuous double tracks on the distance, crossing tracks are essential for all train running, not least for freight transport. But crossing tracks are not all or the only gratifying. Like all other train services, freight transport also depends on the good state of the infrastructure already in place. This involves the maintenance and renewal and replacement of sleepers and switches, signalling systems and other work on the rails. Freight transport has also paid the price for decades of neglect on the railways. Here we are about to reverse the evolution. The working party and the government are in the process of upgrading the railway, which also benefits freight transport. Maintenance budgets have increased sharply and will continue to increase. It's a string clip, but the systematic work on what we have is what makes the trains go. A little over a year ago, I was so lucky to be on a freight train from Dombås to Alnabru to learn. The need for crossing tracks was very clear. Multiple crossing tracks will mean shorter crossing time and more efficient driving time. But the need for maintenance and track renewal was probably so obvious. On the tour for approx. A year ago we were through 20 of what the drivers call slow driving, restrictions on speed due to the state of the railway – perhaps only small things, but it means that the train has to slow down completely and then gas up again afterwards. It's a little efficient. Earlier today, I spoke to the same driver. Three to four slow journeys are on the same route now. We see the results of increased systematic maintenance work, he says. The work on the rails produces results. The Labour Party sees that much still needs to be done to achieve the goal of doubling freight capacity by 2020. But a lot is going on. Crossrails are being built and extended and the maintenance and renewal speed of the railway is increasing. Then someone will enforce the expansion of the crossing tracks. I have two things I want to say to that. Firstly, we have a plan for the development of crossing tracks, and secondly, we also have other targets for the railway. Measures to establish, as soon as possible, a new base route model in the East and the investments to be made there are likely to be more urgent than providing the already offensive rail freight capacity plan. I would like, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, to raise motion No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1294	The representative of Gorm Kjernli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1297	Today, the Council of State and I, along with many hundreds of others, have been on the opening of the 8 km new road on the E18, the route Askim–Spydeberg–Hobøl. It's a road that carries a lot of goods on its shoulders, and so the road becomes valid, good and nice, but the goal must also be that we get more goods away from that road and over on the railway. Over the past five years, CargoNet and other freight operators have reported increased demand for rail freight. The capacity on the track has been the maximum restriction for increased shares of goods on the road for the benefit of road transport. The 2008 key figures of the Central Bureau show that in 2008 the railway transported 7.3 pst. of the total volume of continental transport, while the proportion of goods by road was 48 pst. The track capacity has been used by the Railway Agency and the State Council as one of the main explanations of the major railway problems in winter. The punctuality of the Norwegian railway has been steadily decreasing over the past five years, from over 90 pst. punctuality of long-distance trains in 2005 to close to 72 pst. to date this year. Quality is crucial at a time when the competitiveness of Norwegian industry depends heavily on the timely delivery of the goods to customers. The punctuality problems in Norwegian railways peaked in winter when both Posten and Schenker cancelled their agreements with CargoNet. They are now transporting the goods on the road. The railway may and may have the potential to just take these and many more. The big ones in the sector would like to carry goods on the road. First, it requires more capacity, but also greater punctuality than now. If the railway is to be forward-looking, it has to invest more. It requires far more crossing tracks of 600 m in length. The Bondevik II government made a historic effort on the railways. A grip was taken that has helped to increase freight traffic on Bergensbanen by approx. 80 pst. in the last four years, i.e. nearly 100000 fewer vehicle trains on the roads per year. This is important for road safety and the environment. On the route Oslo–Bergen has more than 60 pst. of all goods transported by train, seven freight trains each day in each direction. CargoNet has wanted an increase of ten to twelve trains every day and that the length of each train is 600 m, towards the current 400 m. In this case, freight transport must be given a higher priority on the tracks, and there must be more crossing tracks. That's not what the government wants. It does not want to be part of our proposal to present an action plan. Our proposal falls to the ground, and a government that wants to invest in the environment, rail and road safety will not be involved in an action plan. The Council of State has now postponed its Roadmap 2012 indefinitely. It is probably a down-priority of the railways – of goods as well as of passenger traffic. Rail is the wisest thing we can do to reduce environmental emissions. It is environmental policy in practice. Getting goods from road to road is road safety. It is a national task that the government fails when you do not want to be part of an action plan. The climate agreement is put in such a way as to wait with the government in the driver’s seat. The railway works have recently received a report pointing out that the three main transport corridors that require crossing tracks to increase the capacity of the timber transport are the Main Railway, the Eastfold Railway and the Kongswinger Railway. New crossing tracks on the two former ones are already a priority in the Railway Agency’s action programme, while no financial framework for new measures on the Kongswingerbahn has been found. For us who know the area, there is a lot of forest and a lot of timber transport and other good activities. Based on experience figures from other extensions, the crossing track on Kongsvingerbanen will cost about 100 million. kr. The working group, which has delivered the report to the Railway Agency, recommends that the Railway Agency give priority to new crossing tracks on the Kongswingerbahn and that 100 million be granted. kr for this extension. Right will have double tracks throughout the intercity triangle. It will also help with the situation for those to be transported. On part of the routes, e.g. The Eastfold Railway, it will also be relevant with four new crossing tracks, which will help those who transport goods. However, it also requires the provision of maintenance funds, the provision of new financial instruments and the provision of an action plan for crossing tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1333	As I understand Right Document 8, it's probably presented to focus on rail and key solutions for the railway, i.e. crossing tracks, as an important measure. Then I thought, as an SV and a member of the government party SV, that if you put forward a document 8 proposal, it's because it's a priority in your budget. As the commitment to this is so great, I had to go into the Right's budget and check it out. When a suggestion is made that the government should focus more on crossing tracks, one must in any case start with itself. But it turned out that one didn't. There is nothing in the legal draft budget for 2011 about crossing tracks. It seemed strange to me when we are discussing it today as an important matter for the Right. Of course, what's left is a way. So there's the right to recognize. But as a result, something gets lost when the Right seems to prioritise trains, but in reality it does not work with the frames they work inside. Then, of course, I will also take part in the congratulations when it comes to the new road that was opened. The Transport Committee has looked at us and that road, and that was among other things. a great bridge there, which even I, who did not like such a fast path, thought was nice. But there is a road – and there is a bet on the road. But, as the representative Kjernli had in mind, the government's efforts on the railways are formidable in relation to the efforts one had when the bourgeois parties were in government. To the Progress Party, I can also say that I can't think of them in the budgets that they negotiated with Bondevik II, ever prioritized railway. But then the Progress Party has gone through a revolution in this area – from cutting, they have now begun to add billions in billions, and thus they are able to stay inside both with railway people and with road people in that party. The problem that Right travels is very important. There is no doubt that if SV had got his will, we would have spent even more money on the railway. But it's not like we're going to spend money making a plan when we actually have a plan that we're going to realize. It would be a misuse of the time of bureaucracy. Then we'd better let bureaucracy work to realize what we already have, and not do as Right, to spend more time on distributions. Well, then we'd better act. In the end: I myself drove freight trains with CargoNet, from Trondheim to Stavanger. I want to say that the feeling of driving 30 car combinations behind, which are not on the road and create dangerous traffic situations, which are not on the road and create a lot of noise, and which are not on the road and polluters by releasing greenhouse gases, is a great feeling. So making sure more goods on the track, which is the starting point of the proposers, is very important. But then I'll recommend anyone who wants to work to get it done, actually spend money on it in their budget. Then Right has clearly something to learn from SV: If a bet is on the train, one must have money for the train.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1348	The President notes that the representatives are now running as goods on Norwegian rail, with the savings that this provides for Storting's budgets in the future. From joke to serious: I give the word to Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1353	I think it's amazing that such a cohesive big thing is busy with the railroad. The reason we're there today is because the Storting has not been in agreement for decades. That is why there is a need to make an additional maintenance effort. That's why it takes time to do the upgrades. That being said, it is a national task to ensure a competitive railway that takes environmental and resource-saving measures into account in freight and passenger transport in its area of competence. There is a good strategy on the Norwegian railway network today. It was adopted by the Stortinget by rolling out the National Transport Plan, the period we are now in, with one year behind us. A good strategy is to ensure a number of transport capacity-enhancing measures on the rail – not only cross-rails, but also terminal structure, terminal capacity and power supply. There are still a number of sections of track that lack power supply and that we need to have a thinking around if we are to increase freight capacity in the future. It is also the case that there are crossing tracks under construction – some are complete, but not approved due to the Mercury signalling system. So here it's working nine-time to get an even better capacity on the Norwegian railway. Maintenance needs to be provided, it's the feedback around the country. You point to the need to do basic things with the track body, with tunnels, and to ensure that you avoid race, as you do. got in ours, on the road and rail networks. This is when maintenance is important. Although we are all impatient – and should be impatient – there are, as I said, many years of neglect here, which you can't get back in five years. It has to work systematically and it produces results. This government is paying extra attention to maintenance in the next year's budget, both on the road and on the track, just to re-establish the lag that has been over so many years. The national transport plan, adopted in 2009, represents hundreds of billions of dollars more on the road and rail than the previous national transport plan — which was overfilled. When the proposal for an increase came, it was perceived as very large from then ruling parties. The next national transport plan is under construction. There is a job in all the trades unions to provide the basis. And that is in this context, when the Storting should take up this job, which we are in the process of debating new action plans. We have an action plan for increasing freight transport on the rail system that remains firm until otherwise agreed. It's based on what the government majority thinks we have the documents that are needed to solve the situation. Now, nine-time work is required from day to day, with which you are in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1364	I want to start by thanking the proposers for a very good proposal. Cross-references are some of the things that can make us significantly better. Then I also want to say that it is important to look at goods and trains in a perspective. It's been very negatively related to the situation around the train in Norway. Then I thought it was important that when it concerns goods, we actually have, if we look at a 20-year perspective, a very positive development. I didn't think we should forget that in this debate. Then we have to take new steps forward, and then crossing tracks will be very important. But also the terminal capacity and availability of wagons is important to see in that health, because this is a particular issue of the climate challenge. One third of the climate emissions in Norway come from the transport sector, and if we are to be closed down to solve that problem, we are forced to make a stronger investment in goods. That is why the Christian People's Party is wholeheartedly behind the proposal that is being made today. However, I must be allowed to comment on the case spokesman's comments here today. The author of the case criticises both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party for their bets. It seems to me to be a little special, when we know the Progress Party's budget, and I want to quote the Chief Editor of the Nett newspaper, who says in his article that the Progress Party is 'on its own planet'. In addition, Gunnar Stavrum says: ‘The budget of the Party is as realistic as adopting nice weather and abolishing the law on gravity. [[...]] While other parties make budget proposals that can be launched, the Frp budget is at best an illustration. [[...]] I won't make a 'forbidden' in the budget debate, it will take us when that time comes. But it is important that the Progress Party can be realistic. And we in the Christian People's Party, which must be realistic, have chosen, for our part, to prioritise railway even more in our alternative proposal. We thought that the Meltveit Kleppa came into the budget was relatively good. However, we have found space for some extra funds, but we believe that the main challenge now is to get a sector to work. We have proposals for restructuring. Turning the Railway Agency into a state enterprise means that they can get their investments started when they think it's optimal to get started, which is what we're going to give priority to. But in this context, I will be very careful to say that I think it is a very good proposal from the right-wing representatives. There will be and will be new steps forward in freight traffic, and it is therefore important that we have an action plan that focuses on crossing tracks, 600 metres in length. It is absolutely crucial to improve freight traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1382	Railway is a rational and environmentally friendly mode of transport. I agree with the intentions behind this proposal, which I believe is to facilitate a more competitive rail freight transport. The majority point to the fact that the development of competitive railways for environmentally friendly and resource-saving freight and passenger services must be an important national task in the coming years. I also agree with that. The current national transport plan has a greater focus on freight compared to passenger transport than any previous one. On the railway side, a good strategy for meeting the challenges and facilitating growth has just been presented. The government wants a maximum share of the growth of the long freight transport to take place on the track and on the sea. The aim is to provide a transport capacity for combined transport by rail, where the railway has its special advantages, covering the demand in the market in the short and long term. In NTP 2010–2019, a good strategy was put forward to facilitate an approximate doubling of freight capacity by the end of the planning period. One of the objectives of the strategy is to provide 600-metre-long trains, as requested in the Document 8 proposal. I am concerned that the effort to increase freight capacity should be made at a holistic level. This means that both crossing tracks, terminal structure and terminal capacity and power supply are put in context. It is not least important to ensure a balance between the capacity of end-point terminals and the distance between them. Work is currently being carried out on several crossing tracks, including: on Sørlandsbanen and Dovrebanen. In addition, a number of new crossing tracks and the extension of others are planned. In the case of terminal capacity, Alnabru is the major project in the current NTP period. The goal is for Alnabru to be a national logistical node. This project has proved to be far more expensive than the one expected in the NTP. In connection with the 2011 government budget proposal, I have chosen to launch a KVU/KS1 process – concept-valuation, external quality assurance in the early stages – of an alternative development concept at Alnabru. Distribution processes have also been started to relate to the future location of freight terminals in Drammen, Trondheim and Bergen. In addition, a number of different measures are implemented at smaller stations and terminals to facilitate increased capacity on individual routes. At the same time, it is a fact that the lack of competence in signalling and securing facilities is currently delimiting the railway works’ capacity to plan and implement new investment projects. In order to operate new crossing tracks, the signalling and securing system must be approved. This requires the use of button signal resources. The Railway Agency is now working on a further development of the strategies and action plans as part of the preparation of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The starting point is routed development plans, where the renewal and maintenance needs to meet the market are considered in the context. Let me make this clear: it's an important goal to get more goods on the track. Therefore, there is already a strategy to facilitate increased freight capacity on the Norwegian network. This strategy was managed by the Stortinget in conjunction with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. Therefore, I do not see the need to start work on a separate action plan for crossing tracks and measures for increasing freight on rail now – separated from the follow-up to NTP 2010–2019 and the preparation of NTP 2014–2023. The further development of strategies and programmes for capacity-enhancing actions on freight will be part of the work on NTP 2014-2023, with further details of the Railway Agency’s action programme. Otherwise, I refer to my replies to the Committee of 24 August and 19 October 2010, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1407	In fact, the lack of cross-rails acts as a bottleneck on the capacity of rail transport. Therefore, the Committee has asked whether it is possible to move some of the planned projects at the end of the planning period in the future. To that it's a shared answer. The answer is in part that it is possible, but that it has some practical problems: ‘Any service depends not least on the levelling capacity and capacity of the station in the railway sector.’» I quote from the letter of reply from the Council of State. But is it, then, that one ignores all the capacity beyond the railway station's own responsibilities and organisation? Is there no extra capacity to buy? In other words, isn't it possible, with a certain degree of extra funding here, to actually carry out the construction, and thereby get away a little bit of the bottleneck?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1419	Today, in many of their assignments, both in accordance with the national transport plan and in the annual budgets, the Railway Agency acquires external competence. They do it on a project, they do it on a plan, and they do it on a signal, where there is one. And if the representative Sortevik, as I did this winter, had confused himself down in the Oslo tunnel, he would also have found there, in the maintenance and renewal work that is going on there, an extensive use of different companies, but under the direction of the Railway Agency. So the answer is, yes, it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1424	I stand here with a report called ‘Increasing rail transport’, which is commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Transport. The project is managed by the Staten Agrarian Administration and the Railway Agency. The report is now dated in November 2010. The report points to the need for crossing tracks. The working group recommends that the Railway Agency give priority to new crossing tracks on Kongsvingerbahnen and that 100 million be granted. kr for this extension. Will the Council of State, in the strategy referred to by the Council of State, give priority to this unique recommendation in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1431	It is true that in 2010 crossing tracks will be completed, and in 2011 crossing tracks will be started and completed. There's a strategy there, so I think it's difficult now, and it'll just complicate other work, moving on the crossing tracks that are already planned. Because as I said in my post: It takes a certain amount of time both to plan and to perform. But then I want to invite both the county councils and the Stortinget, business and many others to a debate when it comes to priorities ahead. This is done through the roll-out of the National Transport Plan, which we are already going to discuss with the county councils in February, and which the Stortinget is also being put forward in the spring of 2013. And there might be some changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1438	In a previous debate in the Stortingen on crossing tracks, this was the case with environmental characteristics of different modes of transport in the debate. And then it was what statistics we have to say is a good environmental transport, and what's a worse one. Then Liv Signe Navarsete, who was then Minister of Transport, said the following: ‘But good official comparisons between the various modes of transport, their absolute and relative environmental characteristics, in many respects, have been a shortcoming. This applies to both passenger and freight traffic. So I want to see what can be done with this." So, we have a lot of statistics, but we have bad statistics on what means of transport are good for the environment, and what's not good for the environment. It is very important when we are discussing freight traffic on trains today. Is this something that the Minister will look at more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1450	The answer is yes. As I said in my post: the railway is a rational and environmentally good form of transport. Of course, the most important thing is to facilitate the use of rail for even more of both passenger and freight transport. So I can't say here and now what Liv Signe Navarsete has already seen going, in the light of what she said then, but I'm going to check that, because it's clear that in relation to the priorities to be done, not least in relation to the rolling of the national transport plan, numbers are important. So that's where I'm going to be allowed to give feedback. Where trains are an option, it is a good and environmentally friendly option. But unfortunately, in much of Norway we have to work with other forms of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1459	It was good to hear the representative Kjernli tell you about all the five sections you were going to get in 2011, because at least they weren't easy to find in the state budget. That's really what I was going to challenge the state council. But the Council of State says that all resources are used, and there are scarce resources in the Railway Agency, both in terms of signal resources and other planning capacity. But resources have been found to explore high-speed trains and other things, instead of addressing some of the near challenges. In response to the question from the representative Sortevik, the Council of State answers that there is no capacity and that it is difficult to obtain more capacity. Does the Council of States really think that there is no capacity in Europe, or is it really just political will lacking?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1464	Let me answer thirdly: for the first time, the question was from Sortevik, as I think, whether we would use other capacity than the railway station's own. There was my answer: Yes, we do, and it's done. Then I understand that clearing when it comes to high-speed trains, still bothers Hoksrud. I thought Hoksrud should stick to the fact that there is a distribution that is in progress and that is finished on 1 January 2012. It's a figure out that a vast majority of people have come to their senses, so there's little he can do with it right now. So it was the third one, which I then regrettably forgot. But when it comes to the answer to Sortevik, and Hoksrud's question, the main answer is: competence other than the railway station's own is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1473	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1476	This is a very important debate. I'm glad it's coming up. I registered that the representative Hareide quoted the editor in Nettavisen, Stavrum, as saying that the Progress Party is on its own planet. I think we're on the same planet as the Christian People's Party and all the other parties in this room, because the Christian People's Party is dealing with the reality that you're going to spend up to 600 billion. kr on a high-speed train. We're on that planet that we're talking about that we want to spend 580 billion. spend more on transport investments in total over the next 10 years. Then I think you're on the same planet -- and that's actually the same money you want to spend, but you want to spend the money differently. There's a significant difference. I think it's important to get more crossing tracks in place. In particular, freight transport has increased somewhat in recent years. But the challenge is in many ways that other transports have increased even more, so that in reality, the same percentage of freight that goes by rail is almost the same as goods that go by other transports. In fact, transport by road has increased even more. I registered that the Council of State said that they are trying to find capacity anywhere and where possible. Then I hope, when new foreign companies want to come in, that the door of the Railway Agency will also be opened, so that new companies will have the opportunity to join – bring with them the competence and planning resource they have. I know that there are foreign companies who want to come to Norway and take part in this. So it's good to be revolutionary. According to the representative of Langeland, the Progress Party has undergone a revolution in the desire to invest on the railway. I think maybe I'll put on some of this, so then I might be a revolutionary person. I'm a little proud when the representative Langeland uses that kind of word, because it's actually that the Progress Party has made changes in what we think, also in relation to railway policy. We have done so over several years, and only in such a way that the representative does not forget it: it was a settlement in connection with the previous national transport plan, where the Progress Party, together with the three government parties, granted 1 billion. kr more on the road and the railway than the bourgeois government, the Bondevik government, proposed. I think it's sad that you don't want to find this. I register the Hallelujah of the Center Party for everything you overfill and what you do. But at the same time you say you can't fix everything in five years. I think that when you have been sitting and running for five years, you have to start to take on the consequences of the policies you have pursued and start taking responsibility for the policies that are being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1490	To the discussion about planets and where we are, I have to be very careful to say that I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party are together with the Right in the proposal that lies in the matter. That's essentially what counts now for me and for us. Then I also take up the proposal – I don't think I did that in my first post. I have a few comments on what has been said in the Chamber. To Langeland, first of all, I just want to say that the history and his presentation today are, as in the past, just as crazy. I will not go further into it, for I will at least try not to contribute by blaming more on others than by taking responsibility for myself. I think it's like commuters and travelers by train and business that carry goods by train, probably experience small improvements on the railway. But the large-scale national leadership with a stake on the railways, in general, is not what I think neither commuters nor business will stand up and say that they have experienced in recent years. For the Right, it's important that we think about the railway. Crossrails, double tracks, will benefit businesses and passenger traffic, and not least the environment, and then new forms of funding, such as project finance and Public Private Cooperation – not only using the money differently – are also a method of building on a continuous, predictable and long-term basis, making it both cheaper and within the budget. We've also done 50 billion. kr, which would have given a ripping off by way of SEK 1⁄2 billion. kr on the railway, and it would be almost twice as much as what you have on the maintenance page of the railway today. It would also have benefited the railways greatly in relation to business and the need there. It is an important debate that has taken place. Every time we have a debate in the Chamber on the railway, we will be involved in both pushing ourselves and pushing the government to keep this on the agenda, so that we can move on. I think it is regrettable that we do not get a commitment with an action plan that shows where we are going to build crossing tracks, and how much, and that we want more for Norwegian business, for rail and for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1501	The President will not refer to any proposal because it is assumed that the representative is behind the committee's position. There's some difference, so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1504	There was a question from Hoksrud in the exchange of lines that remained unanswered, and it was about the Railway Agency looking for signal competence outside Norway. That's the answer. He asked if we have also applied in different European countries. We have. But what's a fact is that we're struggling with a signal competence that's special in Norway. We are trying a European more standard variant called ERTMS, and we now have notice that it will eventually be tested on the east line on the Eastfold. And then we're not going to forget what happened under the previous government. Even if we want to look forward every day instead of going backwards, it is true that just when it comes to competence, we are reminded of the competition that took place during the previous government, which made the railway works slim, not to use a more colored word, for competences that went into the private eye, where some of them were hired back, and where others have been given other tasks for the most time. Fortunately, in the previous ageing period, we had a very good start on the national transport plan that was then adopted, as someone called air money – the two billion more per year – but as it turned out was overfilled. Then we're now in the first year of ten years ahead, while we're also going to roll the plan that we're now in. Suggestion providers are completely correct in what cross-track means. For example: Streaming on Ofotbanen is the freight capacity increased as a result of the crossing track. Similar plans are different places, but I think it's really sub-communicating what's happening, to present it as if it's not now the development of crossing tracks. I refer there to my letter to the committee, which is referred to on pages 7 and 8, in the motion for a vote that I have received, which would lead to too much reading now. The most important work is being done in this area. This is the new project that has been started. Both Barkåker – Tønsberg, Gevingåsen and Lysaker – Sandvika will be completed in 2011. And that's good, for more railway needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1515	The President does not dare to interfere in the debate, but will just point out that the struggle for who is the most revolutionary may take place in other and later debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1518	Not least the financial debate on Thursday and certainly also the debate on the technical proposal for this committee. To the Council of State: It is built – it is built on the railway, and cross-rails are built. That's good. The Progress Party also sees that it is being built. Of course, we're happy about that, and that's very good. What's behind the majority position here is a desire to do a little more, and a belief that you can provide more than what the Council of State tells you in its answer, where she concludes that in practice it is limited. We think it's more capacity to pick up in Europe, and we think that some money might make it possible to get a little bit more speed and move some projects from the last part of the planning period of the current national transport plan to the first part. So it is that some of us are concerned about pointing out that there is a connection between plan and money – money is related to planning – so that we from the Progress Party therefore stress that we should have a maintenance, it is based on a premise that there is also money. It is important in many contexts, including in the national transport plan context. But it has therefore been natural for us to take a little look back at both decisions on the current plan and decisions on the previous plan. In order for history to be quite correct, it was that when the previous national transport plan was adopted, there was a compromise between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Progress Party, which lifted the railway operation by 10 billion. kr in the ten-year period – i.e. by 1 billion. kr every year. Then, of course, you can discuss where anyone's limits go to be on other planets, if it's 22 billion. kr, or if it is 580 br. kr, proposed by the Progress Party in its alternative national transport plan for the current period. At least we in the Progress Party feel that it is firmly anchored in an economic reality, but we are going to get back to that discussion. But of course we've looked at the level assumptions that several parties have, related to both road and rail bets. Here we're talking about the railway. Therefore, it is natural to consider what lies in alternative national transport plans from different batches, related to this. That is why my conclusion will be to the representative Hareide, who has to find out that there is relatively little railway money in the alternative national transport plan of the Christian People's Party for the period 2010-2019: in fact, there are only 100 million. kr, and we divide it in ten years, it'll be a little bit less to get speed on the construction of the crossing tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1533	I'm going to try to avoid driving revolution talks here! I might have taken a bit of a hard time, but the main point was that in early 2000, the Progress Party always cut the rail budget and transferred it to the road. The reason was, of course, that they feared that the train would go off with all the drivers that they wanted on the roads instead, and all the traffic accidents, etc., but then they found that it was a good idea to do both: 'Yes, thank you, both parts' is the strategy that the Progress Party now has. But when one hears they talk about more forward-looking solutions, like lightning, we understand that there are still some things they have left to learn in the Progress Party. So finally, the proposer from Right Representative Schou must have misunderstood SV's criticism, because it wasn't about the history of SV relative to Right, it was about what's actually happening right now. I would have believed, I said, that if one were very too cross-sectional, as SV is, an actually made changes to the budget of the Right when this applies, from 2011. But when one goes in and reads Right's budget, one sees that they don't have a single penny more in their budget for cruise tracks than the government has. Then, in the opinion of SV, the voters are fooling around by pretending to have an action plan, when a person is not even putting money into this action plan and actually showing that there is a priority in the budget. So from my point of view, it was more like a case report to the proposers on what is actually in the Right's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1540	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 843]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1556	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 125 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1567	Every Sunday evening, our children sit in front of the TV screen and look at Emil from Mount Lønne, who runs like a madman to the carpenter's shop. If Emil had lived today, he would probably have been rescued by child protection. Emil didn't jump to the carpenter's shop for nothing, but because he had a furious father in his heels who couldn't control his mind. But many children have no carpenter's booth to run to. They live with violent fathers, and with mothers who are beaten by their spouses. In the past, the police registered this as a domestic crime; now every police district has its own family violence coordinator, and this is now being registered as family violence. Family violence is now being taken seriously, but still this is a very taboo area. Mother does not want to report the spouse, and the children are happy in their father. A great many of the children who are helped by child protection or municipal auxiliaries have been subjected to violence and abuse. Many get good help, others never get help. Recently, the address paper had a large article about a girl who did not get help. She wrote a schoolstyle about her experiences with a violent father, without the teacher and the school having an affair. She made repeated contact with the health sister, without being involved, and she contacted a doctor, without any reaction. I don't think this is a unique case. If we are to succeed in helping more children, we need, in addition to good child protection, employees in schools, kindergartens and health centres who have the competence to see these children. We know that more and more children are being helped by child protection. In 2009, over 46 000 children received child protection assistance. That's an increase of over 46 pst. in the last 10 years. Questions can be asked whether this is due to a negative social development with an increasing lack of care. I don't have any numbers to prove it. Nor is it the case that child protection has improved and is able to capture more children who need help. In addition, the attitude of the population towards child protection has changed considerably. In the past, locals were horrified by articles about desperate parents who had experienced so-called child protection abuse. Now the newspapers write about children who don't get help and where child protection intervenes too late. And the problem is that many kids don't get help. People's supervision reveals that many child-restraint cases are being blamed for lack of resources. We're about to have a new type of folder children. That's why we're getting the biggest effort in municipal child protection since the Sandman funds in the 1990s. We have a government that is offensive to child protection, which is systematically going to work to improve the whole system of measures, which is aimed at improving the supervisory systems, at strengthening county councils and ensuring that the treatment period goes down there, which ensures that we get better foster homes and prepare more foster homes for children at an earlier time. The 2011 budget provides for 400 new posts in municipal child protection. These are earmarked to make sure that the money is spent on the children who need help. In the first place, there will be more employees in the protection of children. They shall ensure that the messages of concern are followed up and that the children in need of assistance are followed up. Instead of lubricating these jobs thinly to all the municipalities in the country, we have chosen to allow the county to allocate funds on application from the municipalities. Municipalities that already have good staff can apply for money for other measures that will strengthen child protection in their municipality. In addition, municipalities that choose to cooperate on child protection will be given priority. Over 80 pst. municipal child protection is provided by the children. The vast majority of these children receive help in their own homes through various measures. It can be financial support, it can be kindergarten, or it can be support contact. To go back to Emil from Lønneberget: Perhaps the farm boy was Alfred in many ways Emil's support contact. He was the one who always set up, and who had the good conversations with Emil. In some cases, children need help outside the home, either at foster home or at a child welfare facility. In recent years, the red-green government has turned its use into even more foster home instead of institution. We think most of the kids are best helped in a family situation, but for some institutions will be the best. The shift towards more use of foster homes instead of institutions has led to a slight decrease in the use of private institutional facilities. We think it makes sense to buy fewer private institutional places rather than leave their own state empty. If we're going to help as many kids as possible in a good way, it's important to make maximum use of the resources. We are accused by the right to wage an ideological fight against private child protection. There's a strange accusation in a situation where over half of all child protection institutions are on private hands. In the 2011 budget, the Progress Party is proposing a cut in the State Child Protection of half a billion dollars. Right cutters not as much, but both budgets would lead to a massive abolition of state child protection institutions. This is really an ideological crusade against everything that smells stately, but the worst of all is that we will get a more expensive and less expensive child protection. If we are to succeed in turning the use into more use of foster homes, this requires a better recruitment of foster families. Today, children wait too long before being assigned to a family. Not knowing where to live or which school to go to is bad for all children. For these children, who have already been hard tested, stability and security are even more important. I am therefore pleased that the government has taken many measures in recent years to recruit new foster homes. Increased use of foster homes in the child’s family and network is an important measure. Family councils in Bergen refer to good experience in looking for foster homes in the child’s family and close networks. I am also pleased with the signals that the Council of State Lyssbakken gave in his statement this Friday that the State will cooperate with private, ideal actors on the recruitment of foster homes. From 1 January 2004, the State assumed responsibility for the county protection of children. In a report now in the autumn, Fafo has demonstrated strong dissatisfaction in the protection of municipal children through cooperation with the State's child protection system. The following is quoted in that report: ‘“The protection of state children is a major bureaucracy. The child, youth and family state to help us are both our helpers and our enemy. [[Bufetate]] If we lifted Bufetat and distributed all the resources to the municipalities, we would have had a child protection," says one of the municipal authorities in this survey." The report considers this statement to be a comprehensive expression of some of the anxiety and frustration encountered in municipal child protection. Whether the report is comprehensive about the situation in child protection is very unclear to me. But that is why it is important that we now have a proper evaluation of the child protection reform. We need a child's protection that's as rusty as possible to help the kids. The organisation is subordinate, the offer to the young is the overall one. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to do a thorough job on the evaluation. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the Council of State Lighthouse for the lowering of the Child Protection Panel. In this panel there are representatives who are all connected in their own way to the protection of children — former child-restraint children, foster parents, parents of child-restraint children, employees, and more. These are key individuals to provide the best possible child protection in Norway. Emil hoisted the little sister Ida up in the flagpole, he emptied the soup dish over his father's head, and he ruined the whole Sunday escape to the well-union in Vimmerby. Emil was not a malicious child, but he obviously lacked some barriers. We know that Emil was doing very well. He was a good school student and finally became rapporteur in Värmland. He had grown-ups around him, like his mother and the farm boy Alfred, who took him seriously and understood him. Most children receiving child protection in Norway also do well later in life. But for all of these, it is important that they have adults who take them seriously both in everyday life and in child protection. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that takes children seriously, and that sees it as important to turn each stone to get the best possible child protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1624	I want to start this article by thanking the Council of State and giving him credit for having this debate today. When we know he's going to be gone for a few months, it's important that the Council of State is present to have a debate on this now. I am also absolutely sure that the Council of State is genuinely concerned about doing something about child protection, and that he is interested in doing so. But we still see that he's the paralytic. This government has now been in power for five years, there have been four state councils, and this last year now after the elections, only the opposition has made proposals in this Chamber on child protection. There has not been a single case from the government. When the chairman of the committee talks about an offensive government, it's not very offensive what we see in relation to child protection. The government is paralysed. It's not useful with fine speeches and concerns messages, with a total amount of stuff talking about being concerned about the children and worrying about the development and crisis of child protection, if nothing is done. What we now see as the result of the press conference to the Council of State, and what he does outside the budget, is that samples should be set down, and there should be a review of different things. 11.5 million shall be used. kr for an evaluation report on Bufetat. This is money and selection and things that are important, but it's just that there won't be any results until 2012. It's long until 2012, and while we're waiting for all of these investigations, there's a lot of kids out there who are suffering and not doing well. Child protection is not easy. It's often taboo, because we're not going to get involved in the family sphere. But it's important that we dare to talk about it. When we see that there are so many television programs and so many newspaper headlines about terrible incidents that happen without any action being taken or done, it is important that the Stortinge take that debate and that we politicians dare to have a debate on this. Stavanger Aftenblad has put the spotlight on child protection in the last month, and they have exposed quite a number of major challenges. It's disturbing reading, and I recommend everyone to read this. It's about organisation and resources, about competence and the instruments we're going to use in child protection. But above all, this is about defenseless children who are hurting. If we could have the child's best memory all the way, that's what we focus on! The big betrayal is that, as a society, we too often won't see the desperate situation that many children are in. Therefore, it is important that we bet on the children. We often see that if we can avoid children being taken out of the family, or let the kids get help, we'll drop spending in other departments, other budgets, later. Child protection is often claimed to take over the care of children too late. Someone says they're coming too early. We know that a lot of people had been much better off with their biological parents than being taken away. But the most important thing is that the kids get help. We often see from living conditions statistics that children's protection children are unemployed, while coalmates study, or that they get social security when others open pay accounts. Brutally, what we're seeing now is that children who grow up under the care of child protection, like adults, are healthier and poorer than the population otherwise. Then it might be easy for the opposition to call for more money. But it's just as important to look at other things, on other sides of the case, and how we're going to run child protection today. Was the reform that was supposed to give us a state child protection, successful? No, it's not safe. It remains to be seen. It's a long time before we see it, but we can ask questions about the bureaucracy that has come about government child protection, and whether it's the right, active way to go. Is child protection perhaps driving disaster prevention instead of early prevention today? They often cooperate adequately with free resources such as health centre, kindergarten and school, non-governmental organisations, sports teams and specialist groups, for example:? It is also important that agencies work together. Could more children have been guaranteed good growth conditions in their own home if their mother and father received regular and daily follow-up, guidance, instead of getting criticism from child protection and risking their children being taken from them? It is important for the Progress Party that one initiates that process and that debate, thinking that we should do the best for the kids at home. We know that there are some kids who, in any case, are unable to live at home with their parents. But let's have the main goal of having them live at home with their biological parents. Then we have to provide help at home at the earliest possible time. There are also cases, as I said, as it's right to move the kids. There is then a debate here in this Chamber about whether they are going to live in an institution, whether they are going to be private, non-profit private or public institutions, or whether they are going to be with foster families. We see that the municipalities have difficulty getting access to foster homes because you get better pay for the state foster homes. We also see that this government has laid down several institutions because the goal is to enter foster homes. What's the situation, is that institutions are laid down before foster homes are in place. Child protection has a challenge, and it is not certain that it was right to move resources and responsibilities from state to municipal child protection. We see that Buffetat has become heavy and bureaucratic, and we see that the money does not go to the kids, to the first line service. It is important, therefore, that we look at it and focus on young people getting help. Some children have such heavy luggage when child protection decides to intervene, that it requires both professional knowledge and stamina to help sort. Councillor Lightbakken was in his post on Friday that there are many of these kids who are struggling with both intoxication, psychiatry and crime. That's why it's important that the departments work together, and that we have a common goal to help these kids. There are conflicts, and that's a big topic we're now discussing. When it comes to taking responsibility for these kids, when you intervene and take responsibility for the kids, we often see that the state is failing. We've often seen that supervision doesn't work. One example I heard this weekend was that child protection called a mother that they were watching, and asked if the 11-year-old was doing well. The mother then called the phone to the 11-year-old, who is in the neighbor's house with a friend, and said that the child protection called and wondered if he was doing well. Yes, yes, yes, I'm fine, says the eleven-year-old. Where was child protection? Isn't it better to talk to that kid? The lighthouse stood here on Friday and said that the supervision must come when the kids are home. Yes, the opposition has been talking about a whole year without having done anything about it. It is important in the future to have the evaluations and samples that the Councils have set down, but we still need to take action now. It's not just useful for us to stand here and talk today. We need to have a change of mind. We need to give instructions to those in child protection who have daily tasks to help these kids, that they need to prioritize it and have to take action. And the supervision has to get in place. Gunn Karin Gjul was in the budget of the Progress Party – that we are going to get a worse child protection with the Progress Party. Now we're going to have a budget debate in a few weeks. What the Progress Party has done in its budget is that we have taken money from state child protection, increased municipal child protection and earmarked it. We have also taken money from state child protection and not cut it, but moved them to the purchase of private institutions. Therefore, child protection with the budget of the Progress Party will be strengthened in relation to the government's budget. It's great that now it's 210 million. extra crowns for municipal child protection, which the government has finally seen must be earmarked. But the Progress Party is very concerned that this will be a bureaucratic system and that it will not benefit the children. And when we see the money that was put on this year's budget, where KS came and said that there were actually only three or four municipalities that spent the millions that were given to municipal child protection in 2010, we should remember that that money also floats somewhere. That's why it's important that we get the eartag, so we're sure that the money that the Storting grants benefits the children, so that they get the help they need when the government takes responsibility. But first of all, it is important that we may be able to run prevention and spend money that municipal child protection has on prevention at home, so that we do not take the children out of their homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1658	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation. The debate we have today on the protection of children in the future is an important debate. I'm glad that the Storting is taking so much time to discuss child protection today. Unfortunately, child protection has not been so high on the Storting's agenda in the last year, at least not if you look at the issues the government has sent to Stortinget. Yes, if you go through the Stortingen Archives for the last year, there is almost one thing about child protection at the initiative of the government. You can do that a little bit, all the time the Council of State Lighthouse has turned child protection into a matter of honor. But the positive thing about the government's initiative now is that when the government comes to the Storing and puts child protection on the agenda, this area is also getting more attention – and that is absolutely necessary. We read almost daily about serious incidents in child protection, about tragic stories where children fail by the public, about parents who feel powerless in meeting with the bureaucracy, about employees who do not feel they have enough room for action to do what is best for the children. Likewise, the day after, we read about politicians who are out and promising action. We cannot have such a situation – a situation in which politicians run after a sector in crisis and promise action, without anything happening. Right-wing wants the child protection debate the government is now putting on the agenda, welcome. We will support all good measures and proposals to strengthen child protection. Following the 2011 draft budget, the Council of State has very much boasted that this government is taking historic action in the area of child protection. If this can be called historic grip, it might say more about government than about the situation in child protection. Instead of promoting concrete measures and proposals for change that would have improved the critical situation of child protection, the Council of State Lightbakken is the fourth Council of State of five years, rather than taking action on investigations and evaluations. I think the Address Paper, which for a long time has followed child protection and written a lot about it, in its leader on 18 November, describes the government's efforts quite well: ‘The Council of State, which later to have located the problems quite well, ends up with seminars instead of doing something. It is therefore close to believing that the Light Hill is in the dark about what he is going to bet on in meetings with his friends among the socionomists and child protection educators. In practice, all the recent proposals he has promoted for better child protection mean that little or nothing will happen until the ageing period is over in 2013. This does not allow the Minister to do anything.’ The right agrees that the so-called offensive bet by the government does not lead up until perhaps the next major period. Unfortunately, the reduction of samples, new supervisors, circulars and amendment of regulations are not the sector itself primarily in demand and lack. The lack of efforts in this area has contributed to the serious situation of child protection today, and the government's so-called involvement in the investigation is not new to the children. They cannot afford to wait for three to four years for absolutely necessary changes, which are important not only to improve the life situation of children in child protection now but also have a major impact on their future lives. For the Right, good child protection is a child protection that is characterised by a wide variety of interventions and services, with high quality and good use of resources. Good child protection should also take each child seriously and involve the child in important decisions in its life. Let me first say that I want to pay tribute to all the beautiful people who work in different parts of child protection, to foster parents and all those who somehow contribute to the life of these children and the young people we're talking about here, getting a lot better. But I record that the government – and especially after the state council's statement on Friday – has a completely different reality than many of us here at The Storing of Child Protection. Now it might be that we don't have as much information as the Council of State does. It's possible, because it's not a very open office, and it's hard to get numbers and statistics – it's at least not once a year – that gives us insight into what the situation is. But the reality that we, more in the opposition, meet when we talk to the children, when we talk to employees in child protection, is a little bit different from what the government presents. We hear children's protection employees tell us that they have experienced increased red tape in recent years. They experience it as heavy, it takes a lot of resources, it steals time and forces from the most important tasks they have, namely the children. We keep getting feedback on this. We meet children who have been moved 25 times, who tell us that there is nothing abnormal about it – children who don't unpack when they get to a new place, because they don't know when to break up and move again. The reasons for this are many, but often due to the choice of wrong measures. The case handler who knows the matter best has been tested by a team from Buffetat with the result that the child is sent to the wrong place. When this happens time and time again with the same kids, the ones who wear the most, it's unsustainable. These are children and young people who need stability, and adults around them, to master their own challenges in everyday life. They need healthy adult contact on both the personal and professional levels. The policy pursued in the field of child protection has led to more movements and more violations of these young people, and their challenges and problems are increasing for every day that they do not receive the help they are entitled to. We meet children in foster homes who do not have supervisors even if they have a right to do so. Not much has happened here. Then I asked myself the question: Why does the government not take this into account? Last year's budget describes the situation, but the measures are not taken. When the state assumes parental responsibility for children, we have a special responsibility to follow up these children, and supervision is an important function in this respect. The foster families do an important job. It's with the deepest respect that we recognize the important job they do to give children a family when the biological family doesn't function optimally for shorter or longer periods. The foster families want guidance, they want follow-up, they want framework conditions and devices that are capable of providing them with help when they meet challenges and obstacles on the road. The foster families are constantly calling for this, and I am aware that there are no major changes in this area either. These are just some of the issues we face when we meet representatives of child protection. Therefore, it is disappointing that when there is knowledge of challenges and solutions, governments do not take action or take action. For the Right, the best interests of the child and the needs of the child are crucial for the choice of measures to be taken. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State also expresses the same in its statement. But what I don't understand is how the Council of States can at the same time defend the building-up of institutional child protection, and especially the small private child protection actors, which are the most vulnerable. If a person considers that the best interests of the child are the most important, it should be irrelevant whether a measure is public or private. The most important thing must then be to find a response that is adapted, quality-friendly and provides the child with good solutions to the challenges facing individual children. As Buffetat says in our country on 18 November, there are several commercial operators offering special services, for example. in the case of behavioural difficulties and ADHD, and that they are often chosen because it is best for the children. Then it becomes a paradox that the Council of State simultaneously practises government policies to reduce the purchase of private institutional places when it clearly believes that these institutions have certain specialised services that provide the best treatment. The arguments of the Council of State also have that duality: we want the best of the child, but only as long as the measure is not with a private actor. To me, this argument is incomprehensible. It's not just where we find double communication. On a double page in the New Troms newspaper, a few days ago it was possible to read about a couple of the central party’s biggest representatives who were visiting a private institution, namely Nymogården – and the title is ‘Would bet on private institutions’. Furthermore, we can read in the article: ‘One of the moments on which the centre party wishes to be looked at is the possibility of building up state institutions to accommodate more private individuals.’ It was also the Central Party's big-time representative Irene Lange Nordahl who said: ‘We need to find a medium way to improve the competitive situation of private operators.’ When the Council of State in a letter dated 20 October replied that he had given what I see as an order to reduce the purchase of private institutional places, I do not understand what the government is doing – whether there is a double communication to confuse the private actors in the market, or whether there is disagreement within the government, where perhaps the representatives of the Centre do not fully agree with the raw drive that SV has now set in by squaring the private and putting ideology ahead of the interests of the children. Right wants to put the entire capacity into use. That is why we believe that diversity, with different methods and institutions, is a good thing. For children, it does not matter whether they are private or public owners of the institution, as long as the offer is of high quality. We therefore do not agree with government policies, to phase out the use of institutions, because we see that institution is the right measure for many of the most struggling children. For the right, proper action is more important than what action. That is why we are strengthening the funds for the purchase of private child protection measures in our budget. Reference is made to child protection grounds when the government reduces the use of institutional positions. Children should preferably be provided with assistance at home or in foster homes. The challenge is that there is far from consensus in research in this field. It's not that institutions are always evil. For many children with serious and complex problems, institutions are preferred as treatment options because they require continuous follow-up by professionals. The right calls for a major debate on the use of methods and on the correctness of the child protection assessments currently carried out. Our starting point is that all children are different and precisely need measures adapted to their needs. Unfortunately, we see too many examples of children failing in public. Unfortunately, we see that ideological leadership is the overall quality and individuality of the offer. When children are in line for institutional space, it is difficult to understand why the government is disfellowshipping private institutions. When children in foster homes are not given the appointment of the supervisor, it is difficult to understand why the government does not take action. When families of foster homes report a lack of follow-up, lack of guidance, it is difficult to understand that this is not addressed. In the right, we have a strong commitment to the children in child protection. We, along with the rest of the opposition, are making suggestions. We're also going to do that in the time that's coming. We believe that political will and action are needed to reverse developments in order to ensure high quality and diversity. That is why we look forward to constructive cooperation for the best interests of children in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1718	Child protection should always be in the best interests of children. There's reason to repeat it because sometimes child protection has worked more like parental protection. It's not right, sail if there's often a relationship between how your parents do it and how your kids do it. Everyone agrees. In many ways this is about coming late as early as possible. But I'm very confused about the speeches in this debate that I've now heard from the opposition. This government has increased the efforts of municipal child protection, which is about enough competent staff to meet these children and these parents immediately, and as soon as possible, when they have problems, whether a case is reported or it is such that they come and ask for help seas – that is action. This is the most important thing to do first, and this government has done so. So in addition to that, we've earmarked this money, because we've seen that if we don't, we're at risk of spending the money not on child protection, but on all sorts of other things. We can't accept that, because this is about strengthening child protection and strengthening it only when we know that it's important to do it. I actually thought everyone agreed that it's the most important thing, because that's where you can intervene early enough to prevent more takeovers than strictly necessary. That's where it's about giving the rescued kids help in time. That's where it's about meeting the lonely mother who doesn't have any supporters around her, to have some other adults lean on in the mission of their children. Then we hear nothing happens. Yeah, that's weird. So the last time was the representative of Hofstad Helleland, from the Right, up. At first she talked about that they knew exactly what to do, and then she didn't know what to do, for then suddenly there was disagreement about which methods were best. Yes, that's one of the reasons why the government is going through this properly, because it's going to be quality in what we're doing. Then she picks up the question of private commercial institutions, that there's too little money for them. One is that it's a political question, of course, whether you want to cooperate with a child protection system that can't go bankrupt or shut down its operation. This is going to be stable offers, and we don't have one penny to lose to the kids or to those who work there, to someone who's going to benefit from what they're doing. But we haven't said that we won't cooperate with anyone who has quality. It's incredibly strange that you can be so incredibly concerned and upset about cuts, or that someone has to lay down some places, when you in your own budget kutter so grazed on the posts that are just going to go to such places. It is not at all in the case of the Progress Party nor in the case of the Right. They have released these budgets with axe. They've gone to Buffetat with an ax. It's either that you have to choose that there are no case handlers there who are going to deal with these difficult issues, or you can't afford to buy the institutional places that are needed. Yeah, there's no other way to cut these budgets. It's a deep cut – to say it like that – from parties that have called for action now, and I see that, yes, that's action. There's action that's going to make it much harder for the very most disadvantaged kids, who need state child protection to actually see them, have time to treat them, and have time to get them an institution place, if that's what they need. It is serious to intervene and take care of it, it has been said. We all agree, and that's why we have to have quality in what we're doing. So there's not one perception of what's right to do, and there's probably not one thing that's right to do either. There's a lot of things that it's right to do, and that's why you have to go through this. It's also a discussion of the biological principle. I think that's a debate that it's important to travel, because this is a difficult topic. But it's important that we dare to go through it now and see if the rules are such that it's actually the kids who have protection, and not the adults. That's what I say, sailor, if I know that getting into a situation where you might lose care for your kids, is one of the worst and most difficult parents experience. But it's still a child's protection we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1731	There have been several debates in the United Kingdom in the last year on the challenge of child protection. That is why it is very positive that the Council of State has taken the initiative to make a statement in the Grand Duchy, and through such a statement has given us an opportunity to have a complete discussion on child protection. The centre party is concerned that all children have the right to good and safe care. In cases where the world does not have the power to provide this care, it is the duty of society to provide children and young people with full care and good growth conditions. The Council of State stated that the main work for children and young people is in the municipality. It is the municipality that is responsible for prevention, and it is the one that follows the children from coming to their first meeting at the health centre, and continues to follow them in kindergarten and school. This is what we need to bear in mind when dealing with the child protection issue after the evaluation that is now under way. In that case, concrete measures must be put in place to ensure close cooperation between the health centre, child protection, school and police. In order for this safety net to work, it is necessary for them to sit down around the same table to look at the solutions that are most important for young people. The distinction between institutions and the distinction between different actors should not be decisive for how to organise. That's the concern of the kids. One question many ask is why a welfare society that we are able to create such a great need for child protection. I don't think there's a fasitant answer, because there's a lot of factors involved. But there are some contexts that we know about. Researcher Lars Håkonsen in Telemarksforschung participated in the autumn conference of KS in Steinkjer. There he pointed to more relationships. He means, among other things: greater pressure to succeed causes more people to fall outside. Many lone - minded dependants do not extend to, either economically or socially. The fact that we have a thinner network of people today means that the public needs to get in and help more often. At the same time, we have a society that is characterized by a lot of migration, which makes the kids more vulnerable. Then we need to discuss our actions on the basis of this, so that our actions are as targeted as possible and can address the challenges posed by this development. So to say all kids grow up in a family. This means that family-based prevention is a very important key to reverseing a negative trend. There is a correlation between the number of children receiving child protection and the number of divorces and separations. The indicator is also the most effective in terms of the need for child protection. In addition, we know that several young people living in conflict-filled families need more help with child protection. Therefore, it is important that when we are to shape the child protection of the future and break the prevention code, we should not forget the basic social unit of society, namely the family. Focusing more on the family, providing the family with the tools they need to solve challenges that may arise, and providing them with the support and guidance needed, can help prevent some of the issues that gradually evolve into child protection issues when the help does not come in time. We also need to include that in discussing the content and organisation of the family protection service. That service is, in my view, very underestimated as a prevention measure. A strengthened family protection service will be a good supporter of child protection. But that's not all that can be prevented. In some cases, rapid intervention by the protection of children is the only right, but the balance between continuing domestic and cross-border care interventions may be difficult. That is why it is good that we now have a debate on the biological principle. On the one hand, it's about how many chances parents should be able to prove that they're able to exercise good care, and, on the other hand, about how good proof of how well the basis of how long child protection thinks they've observed that parents are unable to exercise good care. Unfortunately, there are still examples that we are waiting a little too long, that the need to help and support parents is too heavy, and that this leads to young people becoming victims. Although more legislative changes and important clarifications have been made in recent years to strengthen the rights of young people, there is still one way to go. I mean, among other things: that we should have a debate on the broad potential of parents to appeal after taking care of them. In recent years, we've seen a huge increase in the number of child protection messages. There are major challenges in terms of both quality and economics, and there is a real debate about organisation. There is a particular responsibility between municipal and state child protection that creates a great deal of debate. Municipal Child Protection has a lot of work pressure and a lot of responsibility. They're the first line, they're the ones who run prevention, and they're the ones who meet the kids first. Therefore, it is important that we prioritise both more resources, more competences and more measures for the protection of municipal children. One important step on the way is that in this year's budget, we earmark 240 million. to go to new posts in the field of child protection, or to other measures which may contribute to the enhancement of child protection competences. For the Central Party, it is important that we continue to strengthen municipal child protection. High competence is involved and ensures that we get quality in the job that is being done. Through the good expertise of child-restraint workers, we ensure that the needs of the young are always put first, that employees are even better placed to see the young and the challenges they face at home. I have noticed that the opposition is impatient and believes that the government is unresponsive. The fact that today we have a mass that is behind much of the criticism of child protection reform and of today's child protection, tells us something about the fact that it might be a good idea to spend some time finding a solution. This area is not an area suitable for quick and simple responses, but is a matter of concern that requires broad debate and long-term solutions. There are regular issues in the media that talk about the quality of our child protection, and we hear that the follow-up from child protection is not good enough everywhere. It has aroused the commitment of many who are eager to join municipalities. If the debate about municipal structure and the argument about merging municipalities becomes the most important and the biggest challenge in municipal child protection, then the debate has sidelined itself. We need to focus on what we think are requirements to be imposed on municipal child protection. If we think they have met the requirements, it must be up to each municipality to find out how to solve it. The Change Factory is one of many actors involved in the debate on future child protection. They've spent a lot of time and effort making recordings and what they call Vitamins to Child Protection. One of their recordings is about something as simple as language changes. They include: that ‘care children’ is better than ‘fed children’, that ‘care parents’ is better than ‘fed parents’, that ‘trust person’ is better than ‘supervisor’, etc. Although it takes a little effort to start changing well-informed words, I believe that as politicians we should go ahead and take these kids seriously, because this is something that matters a lot to children and young people, and how these kids perceive themselves. So the big message that's going to be written is going to contain a lot of things. I think it is important that we now spend time on institutions and nursing homes. The question we should discuss when it comes to nursing homes and care parents is how we can give them a better situation. This is not just about economics, but about sharing responsibilities between care parents and child protection, about equal arrangements independent of geography, and we should discuss the organisation of care homes and whether we should still have a government and a municipal section. We need a wide range of institutions, and the offer should reflect the different needs of children. That is why it is important that we also have room for private actors. In this way, we ensure that we have an offer that is adapted to each child. Several actors and several approaches to the problem improve the overall supply. Then, in my opinion, we have to look at the composition of child protection. The assessment that should always be based on is best for the child. Then you have to look at the proportion of government and the proportion of private people and how this is going to be done. The most important thing, as I said, is the best of the child, but we also need to look at this in relation to the financial management of state child protection. One of our greatest challenges in the future is how to give all children a good and safe upbringing. That is exactly why I believe this is one of the most important debates we have in Stortinget. It is important that the Council of State has put this on the agenda. It just shows that the government is taking this seriously. Child protection is very much in the media, and there is a lot of discussion about child protection. That's why I'm very happy that there's so much commitment from all parties to this matter, because the job we're doing now means a lot to many children. At the same time, we have to respect that it will take time to find good and long-term solutions, because this is about a very demanding and complex field of action where we can't just make single changes, but we have to see everything in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1771	It is the time for budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy. Hundreds of organisations and stakeholders trample down the doors of the National Assembly to fight for a greater share of the Community's funds. The child-restraints don't speak their own language. It's their relative who hasn't been able to provide the care they need. Nor do they have strong organisations and social interests in their backs. It should challenge the national Parliament. What is governing our priorities? Is it easier to lift those who shout loudest? I allow myself to ask that question. Is that why we are as good as in the goal of national escalation for full child-care coverage? Is that why we have a target for full hospital coverage in 2015? Is that why we have neither a target nor a deadline for full child protection? Why is it that Norway in 2010 is the country where all kids get a kindergarten, but where not everyone has a home? On the contrary, the queue increases for foster homes – an increase of over 50 pst. only in the last year. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed an action plan for full foster home coverage by 2013. The Government shall be commended for lifting municipal child protection in the budget of the year. 240 million earmarked dollars is a significant step in the right direction, even if there is not a large amount per municipality, for most municipalities need increased funds. There is also a significant challenge, as pointed out by the Council of State, that the number of anxiety messages is increasing, that the number of young people in need of help is increasing. The effort must therefore not only be stepped up, but it must be stepped up faster than the growth in the number of young people in need of assistance in order to increase resources per child. It leads me to one of my main points, and that was also one of two major shortcomings in the Council of State's statement: a bet on child protection must never be a skipper for repair. When the night train to Bergen tracks off, or if the night train to Bergen tracks off, I should probably say, the government will hardly just relax the train in place again and give clear signal that the morning train can run away. No, they would have asked the railway works to look over and repair the railway first and remove the cause so that the damage did not happen again and again. The Christian People's Party believes that a good child's protection must begin with a conscious choice of value to build a society in which it is good to be young. What's good for the kids is good for the community. It's all about building rocks on the rocks of conditions for safe growth. Strengthening local communities, volunteering and the community environment should be required. It will be to strengthen families and parental guidance, health centres, parents’ home co-operation in school, family protection, to which the Centre’s recent reference has played a crucial role for many who are struggling and who should have had resources for more preventive and outreach activities. It's about strengthening a life course instead of cutting into a life course. It's about challenging students in schools, young men to take responsibility for their own kids, which the Education Directorate has deliberately omitted in its textbook for teachers. It's about strengthening values like responsibility and commitment and caring, like the Church's Bymission in the Christmas campaign 'over-z'. And, above all, it will be to strengthen the prevention of drug use and to strengthen drug care. However, an overall policy for safe growth must be followed by an overall approach to provide the necessary capacity for child protection, so that ‘children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner’, as established by the Child Protection Act. We need to build a comprehensive child protection system with enough capacity at all stages, where all good forces, public and private, are used. Ideal actors have a self-esteem because they started to care about the young people in local communities long before the municipalities and the state started their actions. It's the babysitter's turn. It is the turn of child-restraints on a national level and on a national escalation plan, broadly politically anchored, long-term and with clear deadlines that oblige them to act. For the other significant deficit in the presentation of the Council of State, there is just a lack of a plan for a national commitment. The Minister of Children won an important battle for earmarked funds in the autumn budget, but the government has not taken a decision on a stepping-up plan that makes us know that there will be a promise in 2012, in 2013 or 2014, until we are in full coverage for child protection. The escalating plan should have come to spring. At that time, Stortinget could have debated the organisational structure in 2013. Children's protection kids don't have time to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1792	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation that gives us the opportunity to have this debate. I really agree with a lot of the state assessment that the Council of State had in its presentation, but that knowledge and that state assessment also requires action. We who travel a lot to child protection institutions and talk to people, see that there is great dissatisfaction in the system, both by feeling professionally overtested, especially by Buffetat, that you have a unclear division of responsibilities, you notice that professionals are fleeing up in the bureaucracy, and an ever-increasing paper mill makes everyday life more difficult. It requires action. From that point of view, we want to present some challenges to the Council of State. We'll see how many minutes I'll take - we have more than enough! Firstly, it is important not only to have the good intentions and the good analysis, but also to look at the organisation of child protection. I want to brag by the Council of State, who chooses to strengthen municipal child protection in this year's budget, but the big challenge we in the Left think is connected to the state child protection, which now sucks a lot of professional competence, which then goes further and further away from the children. Many municipal employees say they are not allowed to do their job. This leads to a deadline break and to an order of business before you are examined, and you do not have time to intervene in the matters that you should have intervened in. That's why we think the Council of State should have done something dramatic. He has said that he should look at – we hope he will both assess and investigate – our proposal to transfer the tasks of Bufetat regionally down to the municipal child protection system, those who actually see the children in their eyes. Buffetate has become a bureaucratic mastodont, which does not benefit child protection, as it is today. If the Council of State is not as brave and as radical as the Left, we are open to look at at at least the possibility of slimming Bufetate, as Buffetat is today, and you can figure out how it's going to be a serving body for municipal child protection. Today, Buffetat is bordering on being more and more governing and more bureaucratic and removing the decisions from what I think is a good principle, that whoever is going to rule over a child should be able to see that child in his eyes. The second thing we see as a major challenge is the deadline breaks in relation to county council members. That also mentioned the Lightbaking in his post, and I share his concerns. Let me give you an example of this: Girl, 17 years old, child protection client, becomes a mother, moves to a family center, a former maid home, when the child is five weeks old. The child protection came in after two weeks with an alarm message at the mother’s home, the municipality manned the child’s home, so that the baby is properly cared for, but the situation is still unsustainable. When the baby is three months old, municipal child protection decides that they start taking care of matters. That was at the end of April 2010. The city's working on bombs. All employees want this to be clarified as quickly as possible, and send the matter over to the company only a few weeks later, in May. In October, the council adopts what to do. Five months took it, there's normal trial time in Hordaland. It's clear that that baby had been much better off that things had been clarified a lot, a lot before. I hope the Council of State is working on blasts to bring down these remains. Then I must say that both when I hear Karin Andersen, and when I hear Hofstad Helleland, I am very happy that I am liberal. But here it's a huge challenge for the council not to leave ideology in the center. Here is the most important thing to take from each child, and the problem of the Council of State, as he interprets it, is that he should use the capacity of the state before he uses the private. I think it should be much more flexible than that, because it often leads to children being moved much more around, and I think that's unfortunate. I believe that you should take the child as a starting point, not to fill up. The council mentions the marine contagion effect, that you can end up with people at institutions who teach you things that you wouldn't have learned otherwise. Getting that composition of children in institutions means you have to have much more flexibility than you wanted to fill up the state before you do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1811	I asked to make this statement because I wanted to invite the Storting to debate on both immediate and long-term challenges, both because I believe there are some things we have a common responsibility to solve quickly, and because there are some things I think all parties need to discuss how we should solve in the long term. In addition, I asked to explain to the Storting because I am proud of the whole of the policy that the government can now present in the area of child protection, and I think there is a need for a debate in which we can discuss this together, rather than on a case-by-case basis. The immediate challenges of child protection – what are they about? Well, they're not least about the gap between resources and the number of children who need help. Over several years, we have seen that despite the increase in resources, the increase in the number of people working in municipal child protection, there has been an increasing increase in the number of care messages, the number of cases, the number of children coming into contact with child protection. That growth has gone faster than the growth of the money and the people the municipalities have been able to put into child protection. It's our most important and most serious challenge. It also leads to the queues that we see in parts of child protection, and that both position and opposition are very busy doing something about. We have cows to get supervisors out in the municipalities, we have cows in the counties, who have been brought up here, and we have cows to have foster homes. The immediate challenges in child protection are therefore about being able to be sure that we are able to deal with all the incoming concerns in a good enough way in the first line of child protection, that no issues should be resolved without being absolutely sure that there is a good professional basis for it, and that we can reduce and eventually have a child protection without cows to get supervisors, foster homes or deal with a case in the counties. Then we also have some structural challenges in child protection. They're about the distribution of money between municipality and state. For many years we have had a development where the growth in expenditure on state child protection has been much higher than the money that could be spent on municipal child protection. We have challenges related to cooperation between municipal and state child protection, and we have challenges related to what will be the future distribution of responsibilities between municipal and state child protection. This government is acting on all the immediate challenges, and I see that someone in the opposition is very busy measuring the action in the number of documents delivered to the Stortinget. I'm most concerned about measuring action in how we can help those children who need help. And there has been a broad consensus in this room until now this fall – all the signals I've received in the debates we've had, and what I've seen in both the position and opposition in the media – that it was absolutely necessary for the government to earmark money for municipal child protection, get more people in place to solve the immediate problems. Then I register that when we get here today and the government has done it, there are other things that are most important to the opposition. It's like this -- I accept that it's the opposition's job to criticize the government. But there's a sharp contrast between what the opposition is saying today about the government not acting, and the things the opposition itself asked us to do in ours, which is what we've done. We're dealing with getting more people to do the most important jobs in municipal child protection, we're dealing with the resources we need to do something about the problem the representative Schei Grande just addressed the serious queue problems we have in the counties, and we're dealing with finally being able to create a change in where the big money goes in the field of child protection. Ever since the Child Protection Reform, there have been large exceedances in Bufetat every year, until 2010. This is the first year we don't have to go to the Stortinget and ask for extra money, and it creates room for prioritising the first line and municipal child protection. So I think there's a big difference in the input from the opposition. I believe that both the Christian People's Party and the Left here have had knowledgeable contributions with constructive messages to the government. But I think the Right and Advance Party are cheating. They're very busy presenting a long list of things they want to do with, and then they say that the government's answer is just to investigate, despite being very clear in my presentation and having been there in all the debates we've had all year long that what the opposition is saying is that they're most concerned about, namely the queues and the quality of the offer we're giving out to the children, we're doing something about it now. What is to be investigated is not how to get more supervisors or how to get more foster homes. So let's do something about that. What is to be investigated are the further questions of the division of responsibilities between the municipality and the state, such as: What needs to be investigated is the major questions of principle in the field of child protection. How do we focus the biological principle on the principle of the child's best interests? So I have not registered a single completed proposal from the opposition on how to resolve any of those issues. I would warn you very much against doing once again what has happened in the field of child protection before, namely, that the politicians are drawing down on the people involved, fixing final proposals for reforms without us being absolutely sure that that is what child protection needs. That's why I expected a more constructive response from the right-hand side of Stortinget when I invited to a debate on the future organisation of child protection. I had expected suggestions on how to do so, the positiveness of many to be involved, because the goal is that, before this ageing period is over, we should hopefully be able to gather on measures that will provide a lasting clarification on the issues that have been addressed by several representatives. So I notice that the right-hand side is busy with action. As I said, I am proud of the action this government stands for, but I must admit, however, that I am a little impressed with the power of action of the alternative state budgets that are now beginning to come from the right. I have to say that even though I am happy to take the paper commission, I am a little tired of missing out on the budget debate that the Storting will have. It's especially after a year when the opposition has moved out repeatedly to criticise the government for issues relating to the situation in Bufatat, that you come up with budget proposals not just cut, but very deep and dramatic cuts in child protection. We have heard that the Right and Advance Party must strengthen municipal child protection. When we look at the budgets, we see where that money is going to be taken from. After all, it is the most vulnerable children in our society who become the balancing item in those budget commitments. It's true that we have a red tape challenge in state child protection. But if someone thinks there's bureaucracy that can be cut to a sum of 400 million. SEK or 500 million. kr, as the opposition proposes in its alternative state budget, they must believe again. So it means a breakdown of the state child protection. That would mean that we have to cut hundreds of jobs, or maybe a couple of hundred institutions, or drop the bet that the government has launched on state foster homes. The outcome of the opposition's proposal will be that fewer children will have the measures they need; there will be longer foster home cows; there will be a lack of good institutional facilities. We're going to take with us the next time the opposition comes and demands more for child protection, that they're really willing to fund what they're going to do more in child protection, taking the offer from other children who need child protection. It is my wish that, through the debates we are now debating, we should be able to discuss both important issues of the principle of child protection and also address the many recordings that are now coming from children in child protection itself. Like the representative Nilsson Ramsøy, I would like to commend both the Change Factory and the National Children's Protection Association, which have made a number of very constructive contributions to both government and growth in terms of how we can change child protection on the child's own premises. There is also one reason why both the Change Factory and the National Association are well represented in the Child Protection Panel that I have put down, with the wish that we, for example, should. will discuss the issue raised by the representative Nilsson Ramsøy about what we call the different functions of child protection – the language used in child protection. The kind of issues I'm very open to discuss and make changes when we're going to turn rocks in the way we organize child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1838	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1841	Just one thing: the progress part doesn't cut a single crown in child protection, we move it. And I'm sure the employees of state child protection can go back to the jobs they might have in municipal child protection. But that's not what I was going to ask the council. We have a situation today where more and more people are afraid to contact child protection, because they may need some help, but they are terrified of losing their children. We also see that there has been an explosion of something new called child protection consultants and network experts in relation to child protection, who help families who are afraid to lose their children, to escape child protection. It's a development that's actually very serious, given that we're getting such new providers, instead of being the child's protection to help the families. So my question to the Council of State is, is that how it should be? And what steps have the Council of State plans to take to deal with these new advisers that have arrived?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1850	I just have to say that I take seriously the draft budget of the Progress Party. It says it has to be cut 500 million. kr in Bufetat. If all is to be cut into posts, it is equivalent to 830 posts – with full-year effect. It's a dramatic cut! Let me then answer the question. I am also concerned about the developments pointed out by the representative. I think it's partly about how we can create better trust between child protection and biological parents, and how we can get better at following them up. It's about how we can continue a positive development in this area, because we see that far more parents than before are in contact with child protection. And then it's also about how we're going to be able to protect child protection from part of the hanging and heating that's going on today, among other things. by child guards, for whom I must say I am deeply concerned, and which we must work to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1857	I hear the Council of State calling for constructive input from the opposition. We appreciate that. After all, the Council of State can go through the Storting website and look at all the proposals that have been made, all the representatives that have been promoted by the opposition in the last year. I can also inform the House that the red-green parties have voted in favour of all proposals. All the proposals made by the opposition have been voted down by the red-greens. However, since the Council of State calls for more constructive measures, I will face a challenge and it is on responsibility-sharing. We have had pilot projects that have been very successful, such as in the municipality of Trondheim, which took over the responsibility for child protection, which has been successful in every way. Now a unanimous city government in Haugesund will do the same. Is it the case that the Council of State supports its own local SV representatives, who want a more comprehensive responsibility for child protection, and allows them to have the possibility of a trial project on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1864	I myself have been to Trondheim to learn from the experience they have done. The local government in Haugesund is asking for something that a number of municipalities are now saying to me that they want to. Several cities have wanted such a model. We see that there is a tendency for large municipalities to want a change in the distribution of responsibilities in the protection of children towards more responsibility for the municipalities. Then we have a challenge linked to the fact that the signal from small municipalities is often different. That's exactly the kind of question I want us to now discuss. If more pilot schemes are involved, we now need to consider. What I have set out to do is, of course, a rather ambitious timetable for the Storting to be able to make lasting decisions on the distribution of responsibilities during this period. Then it is a question of whether it is appropriate to create new test schemes before that time, or whether we will be able together to take the final decisions on the basis of what we know today about the functioning of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1871	I assume that the Council of State's criticism of the opposition's draft budget does not concern the Christian People's Party, because the Christian People's Party has proposed strengthening both the state and municipal child protection. But what is Christian People's Party's criticism of the government in terms of child protection is that we see the ambitions for 2011, but we don't know what the ambitions are for 2012, 2013 and 2014, and we don't see the long-term ambitions that can give us full coverage. That state councils want long-term investment in their areas, we can read about in the paper every day. It is when the government promotes budgetary documents and documents for the Storting that we see what kind of unified policy the whole government is behind for years to come. The Council of State indicates that he has written to the municipalities and county councillors that the effort on municipal child protection will continue over several years. The question to the Council of State will then be: why has the Council not made the Storting aware in the budget paper that there is a multi-annual escalation of the municipal child protection we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1878	I take self-criticism for a little unpresisian use of words. It was the alternative state budgets of the Right and Advance Party that I aimed at with my criticism. We are now in the midst of a bet aimed at the municipalities that have a long-term perspective. I have also assured the municipalities of that with the circular that now goes out to all the municipalities of the country, with an invitation to apply for money from the earmarked scheme. We also believe that there is a need for more municipal child protection jobs than is possible through the initiative we are now launching for 2011. When we've used the number 400 positions, that's because that's what we think is realistically getting people in one year. So, of course, as the representative knows, we're budgeting from year to year. But the government has been very clear both that the money we now bring has a long-term perspective, and that we believe that they do not solve all the problems in child protection, but that it will also be needed after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1885	I'm glad we got this clarified with the money! But I also like to be described as the opposition to the Light Hill. What I would like to ask is about the proposal that the Left has put forward and that the Council of State has said he should look at, to which he was not entirely opposed – not strange, because the Hordaland SV has an opinion that is fully in line with the Left proposal on reorganisation. So I thought maybe I could use the line exchange to get the Council of State to clarify a little bit more what 'look at' means. Is that so that he will actually consider either doing the radical grip that the Left has proposed, or looking at how to manage to move resources down the system, down to those who are sitting and making the decisions. In the war of competence we see today, the basic plane needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1892	I mean, there's a lot of positive happening in Buffetat. That is why the cut-off proposal from the Right and the Advance Party will have a dramatic effect on Norwegian child protection. But as I said in my presentation, I also believe that there are some developments following the child protection reform that are worrying and that are essentially the same as, among other things, they are. The left has pointed. That is why I am now inviting a debate, both through the evaluations we are going to have, through the Child Protection Panel, and not least through the big message that will come in 2012, to discuss exactly what the future responsibilities will be like. Then I'm willing to turn stones. I don't want to exclude any possible solutions. Everything shall be assessed. I want a broad debate on that. I am serious about the debate we have been invited to, and I am absolutely sure that we need that process and that time, because changes must be firmly anchored both politically and in child protection. That's the process I now want to start, and it has no preconceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1899	First to our containment, or the aging in terms of these 500 million. That's how we, among other things. can complete the professional teams with which the municipalities are dissatisfied – a task that the municipalities have done in the past. There we immediately have a substantial resource to take off. But that's not what I was supposed to ask the Council of State. He's calling for action. In particular: The mountains have established family councils that seem incredibly good. It shows that children have far more networks than you should think. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State if he would like to extend the family council scheme to several municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1906	Fortunately, we have the opportunity to discuss the budget proposals further. I would like to insist on the fact that what the Progress Party has proposed is irresponsible and dangerous for the protection of children. As far as family councils are concerned, I'm familiar with what's been done in Bergen, and I think it's exciting. I believe that all measures that can help to anchor what we are doing, even better – in the families, in the young themselves, in the parents, and that can involve child protection in what is our main goal, namely to solve the problems early and starting with the families where the children are, are good. Therefore, the experience from Bergen is something we should look at, and also consider how we might follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1914	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1917	When the eight-year-old child-rescue was asked if he had any wish to move from a child-rescue institution to a foster home, he had three desired: He wanted to be able to keep the same rules and procedures that he had had at the Children's Protection Institute. He wanted a guarantee that he would never be turned back. He wanted two glasses of shower instead of one on Saturday night. This was the sweetness of a boy who had offered in a chosen family. In fact, the example is from the Bergen Child Protection Service, where they now use family advice as a method for the placement of children in foster homes. This method is based on the child's family and network when they are going to start the process and has been shown to be very successful. Children are small, wise people who want and need security and stability in their everyday lives. Children down to a very low age are able to express their feelings and desires about how they want it, and it will be easier to express it if they have people they have confidence and relationships with them as support players. For children, routines and rules mean security. For children, stability means safety and security. And not least, this means that someone cares about them, takes care of them, and is happy with them. I think we should use this approach to place children in foster homes to a much greater extent than today. Not only do you use a familiar person with whom your child has a relationship, but this is a very nice way to find good people and their caregivers. There were several who had entered this council in Bergen as a family or friend of the child's family, who had initially not believed that they would become foster parents. But after the process – together with the child, the network and the child protection – they found out that they wanted to be. As the councillor Lightbakken said in his statement, more than 10,000 children are located in foster homes in Norway. Norway is at the top of the Nordic region using fosterheim as a location option. The light slide was clear that strengthening the fosterheim supply is a priority task for the government. He also showed that all regions now report increased efforts to provide more foster homes, and that increased use of foster homes in the child’s family and networks is a central objective. All of this is very good. But the fact that kids are in line to get a place home is not good, and we can't accept that. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has a major focus on this, and that the government now has a clear child protection offensive in the state budget of the year. But to recruit more foster homes, we don't just need money. I also think we need new methods. There has been a large increase in the number of messages and the number of children during child protection measures in recent years. More people report than before, and as the Council of State said during its disbursement, more and more parents contact the child protection service itself. It told me that the trust in the child protection device has increased, which is very important. What worries me is that child protection concerns messages come very little from the health centre and kindergarten. 2006 figures show that only 3 pst. The messages came from kindergarten, and the percentage has not increased markedly in the years after. This does not match what we know about the importance of early efforts. Just as early school efforts are decisive for the future of the child, early child protection efforts are decisive. In addition to increasing focus, we need greater procedural capacity. 672 pending cases in August 2010 are 672 too many. In order for more children to receive proper timely assistance, we need to strengthen the child-resistance service, and we need to strengthen the staff in order to obtain a better and stronger procedural capacity. I'm very happy that the government is now proposing an increase of 10 million. kr to the counties. This is in stark contrast to the Progress Party's alternative budget, because it is not true that they do not cut child protection. They're proposing a 60-million cut. kr to the counties. If you do this, the children they're talking about don't get any help. In relation to what Horne said about being a lamb of action, I would say that this is to propose a cut that would primarily lead to paralysis of action. It must be a goal to give children timely help, and then we need to strengthen the students. The Progress Party may want to cut out the participants, but then they have to move the handling of these matters to someone else, for example. to the courts. But we can't find that in their alternative budget. If the Progress Party budget were to be our child protection policy, it would actually have dramatic consequences for the child protection system. Norway had then, as a result of a commercialization, received a large new large group of entrepreneurs who would spend money on the suffering of others. We had several child-responsors and child-responsors. It's taking child protection in the wrong direction, and it's in stark contrast to what the government and the Workers' Party's child protection policy is and should be. The fact that the government and the Council of State are now lifting child protection so high on the agenda is of great value. In addition to the economic side, which includes: strengthens municipal child protection by 240 million. kr, I have also threatened the purely communicative value of this. Focusing on child protection, on the children who need help from the adult society, I hope I will pass on to everyone who works with children throughout the country. I hope that a greater focus on child protection, an increase in the number of child-resistance services settings and more childcare, school and child-resistance dialogues can lead to more messages coming in earlier. The Council of State is now also taking the initiative to discuss the biological principle. He's going to put down a selection to look at the principle, and I think it's very good. The debate on this is too many very controversial, but it does not make any less important for that reason. The biological principle has been strong in child protection for all years. My clear attitude and my starting point for each child protection debate is that the best interests of the child should be the guiding principle. I think that in light of this is also reason to open up a discussion about the introduction of time-limiting in relation to the biological principle and possible reversal. Is it best for the child to be brought back to biological parents after having bid in a foster home, for example. from there was a baby until it was ten years old, in a case where the child has not had contact with mother or father? We know that in several situations, children cannot or should not be in contact with biological parents while in foster homes, for example. due to heavy drug abuse. It is a fact that good relationships between children and adults are the most important provision for children’s learning and development. Too many fractures in relationships may lead to a negative development. Children don't need adults who are perfect models, but they need adults who see them and who are able to regulate and guide in a wise way. This is not about traditional child education, but it is about building good relationships between children and adults that are not characterised by short-term problems. Developmental psychology says that when children are between zero and six years of age, the basis is for security and their sense of being good enough just as they are. They are reflected in important adults. This requires that the child has grown-ups who see it and recognize it. This should also tell us when we're going to take the discussion about the biological principle, that after that, for example. six to ten years in the foster home is not necessarily the best thing for the child to be repatriated. During the child protection days in Stavanger in 2008, it was shown that the Norwegian foster family event is an complementary and not a substitute parent. This is taken from a cultural psychological study of late modern foster families. This applies to many where foster home is only a temporary measure and the contact with biological parents is good and present throughout the course of the course. These are not the cases I refer to. My point is that in some cases, my claim is, the foster family becomes a replaced parent that goes over many years, and on this basis there is also a need for a discussion about the biological principle. In addition, it might also be possible to open up a new discussion about the use of adoption. There is not only one answer to this discussion, and the discussion is full of shades and complexity that time is not going to light up. But that discussion has to be taken, and that there's a very important grip the Lightbox now does, there's no doubt about it. The aim of child protection must be that it is a protection for children – it must be for children who cannot be cared for by their own parents to have a safe, good and stable upbringing. In several cases, I think the biological principle might have to give way to that goal. I look with great interest up to the outcome of the selection that's going to work out the biological principle, and I look forward to being with and debating this further. I want to finish the article by thanking both the Council of State Lights and the government for putting child protection so high on the agenda, and not least for having such a clear child protection offensive in this year's state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1963	When we are invited to debate, I think the focus is wrong when all you do is criticise the Progress Party, and have an ideological debate about using private people, and not a good dialogue about the challenges you face in child protection. Although the Progress Party says three times from the Chair that we do not cut the budget, it is repeated by those who want debate and dialogue that we do. For the fourth time, the Progress Party does not cut the budget for child protection, we spend the money in another way. We want the money to be used closer to those who need it. Care and education of children are primarily the responsibility of parents. However, parents may need help for shorter or longer periods of time, such as: due to difficult life situations. Child protection can come in here to help children and families to ensure good living conditions and good development opportunities for children. The best interests of the child must be an overriding principle in the work of child protection. We keep looking away and weekly in the media big headlines, dramatic headlines about children who are not doing well. It's cows, and it's a big challenge. That is what we are going to discuss here today. If, for example: children and parents have conflicting interests, the child must be given decisive consideration. In principle, children are to grow up with their biological parents. This premise, the biological principle, is the basis for Norwegian and international legal regulation of child-parent relationships. In this context, it is important that cooperation between child protection, health centres, kindergartens, the recreational sector and schools should include more relationships and encounters between many, different personalities, different values, different concerns and different roles. It requires a change of attitude among employees working with the child and a further development of their cooperation skills with a focus on communication, advice and care failure in general. In any case, it demands cooperation, dialogue and respect for each other. One important factor is that teachers have competence in the field of children. A study carried out among parents who have failed to provide care for their children reveals six main points. Four of these points prove to be a lack of knowledge also of a pedagogical nature. Parents admit that, among other things: lack of knowledge that children need encouragement, guidance and praise, that children need to show off, show new skills, and that they need a sense of mastering. There are leisure activities coming in. It can be good prevention, activities such as sports and music do locally. It is also preventative of keeping children outside the drug setting. Then leisure activities are very important. The parents in the study also had, among other things, unrealistic expectations about what children could do at different stages of their development. Teachers should have knowledge and competence in this field. Teachers should be responsible for giving feedback to parents who need it, on the development of their children and how the child behaves, whether it is normal in relation to its age. In this way, parental cooperation can hopefully prevent care failure and contribute to a healthy and safe environment for children. Many child protection issues start with parents themselves contacting and seeking advice and guidance or other help, with the consequences it may have at times. Many young people also look for child protection services with concern for friends or because they themselves are in a difficult situation. Children’s services receive many requests from public officials, schools, kindergartens, neighbors, families, and others who are concerned about children. But then we have to know what we're doing. We have to dry, we have to want to, we have to help the kids who are having a hard time. And then we don't have to engage in ideological debate here in Stortinget about where we carry the money, what posts we carry them on, and whether we want to use private institutions. We have to put that debate away. We have to do the best for the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e1982	For the debate on the disposal of the Right and, where appropriate, the Advance Party in the budget, it is at least the right starting point that we do not get the best child protection by placing the professionals with the longest education and experience as far as possible away from where the children live. On the contrary, the more of the good professionals in child protection who work close to the children, the better child protection becomes. During the Red-Green government, the crisis in child protection has been allowed to develop under three different state councils for four years, without one being willing to either recognise the problem or come up with solutions to the challenges that were and are in child protection, and despite the fact that the warnings were very clear both from the opposition, from child protection itself, from the children and from society. The signs in time were very clear, but the three previous state councils were not even willing to admit that there was a problem in child protection. The current Council of State, Lysbakken, deserves praise for having acknowledged the crisis and has been willing to take a debate on it. But it is serious that the red-green government for four years has not been willing to address a debate on what may be entirely fundamental in our welfare society. And three state councils that really had only one major responsibility that was important, where they were actually responsible for the services, were not willing to do anything about the consequences of the development that got to come. However, when the Council of State has now acknowledged the crisis and started a debate, it is in the view of the Right that it is a pity to take advantage of the opportunity to leave it primarily to attack half of the country's child protection institutions, which are run by private individuals. So the half of the country's child-restraint institutions, which solve major child-restraint challenges every day, and which in many cases are just dealing with the children to whom the public has given up and who do not have an offer, choose the Council of State responsible for this area to attack, instead of inviting more cooperation to solve the challenges of child-rescue that I also perceive that the Council of State has recognised has major challenges. In Stavanger Aftenblad on Saturday 13 March 2010, there are opinions from two people working in the field of child protection: ‘There are too few places available and the institutional spaces are not sufficiently differentiated. The offers do not always meet the many different needs of children, says Hernes. The two are afraid of developments in which economic considerations are given too high a priority in the selection of actions. It's much cheaper to have a child in foster homes than in institution. – We have in between the feeling that it is the economy that governs. But child-restraint work is expensive anyway. This is a cost society has to take," says Cornelissen." Astrid Benestvedt, head of the youth section of child protection in the municipality of Kristiansand, says one of the following: ‘We are increasingly refusing to send young people to state child protection. They often get much worse where the responsibility lies with the councillor Audun Lysbakken. [[...]] He's in charge of child protection. We can no longer see that young lives are being destroyed because the systems are too bad." The right fully agrees with Astrid Benestvedt in this. It is very important to have a wide range of child protection services, to have an offer tailored to the individual child, to feel safe for those who want to build and run child protection institutions, to experience them as a partner to be there for a long time and not as an enemy, an opponent to fight. Therefore, the right will continue to work for a child protection system capable of dealing with all the children who need it, a child protection system with a wide range of offers, where those who work also feel that they have an option to provide an offer tailored to the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2015	Child protection has been high in public terms lately. That is good, even though many refer to child protection synonymously with crises. The review is of the good. We focus on an important area, namely those of our children who come in such a situation that others have to take care of them for a longer or shorter time. Child protection is doing an incredibly important job, and precisely because this concerns unauthorized children, the business must be critically pursued. Unfortunately, when child protection is under pressure from many issues that have not been dealt with, prevention is deprived in favour of the more serious takeovers. The protection of children shall ensure that children and young people living under conditions likely to harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. In this way, the protection of children shall contribute to secure conditions of growth for children and young people. This is ambitious, but important, goal to achieve. I think there is a broad political consensus on the value and importance of this work. The government has taken note of the need to increase child protection efforts seriously — first by adding funds corresponding to 400 posts in the 2010 budget, followed by 240 million. kr, earmarked for child protection, in the 2011 budget. These funds are primarily intended to increase the number of posts in municipalities, but they may also be used for other relevant child protection measures. The funds are allocated on application to the State. Many municipalities need more child protection jobs. However, municipalities also have good coverage of positions in this area, but need funds for action and prevention directly targeted at them. This has the best overview of the individual municipality itself. I'm glad it's not a rigid use of these means. Both local politicians and population growth and government must continue to focus on the field of child protection in order to enhance and improve the quality of the field. From my point of view in Finnmark, I have recorded that there is a debate related to the fact that Sami children who are placed in foster homes should be placed with Sami-speaking foster parents. I understand the demand, and I believe that local child protection must meet these requirements as far as possible. A child who is moved out of his or her home and from his or her parents undergoes strong emotional stress. If they also have to give up their mother tongue, the help may be counterproductive. These conditions also apply to other linguistic minorities in other parts of the country. Children shall receive the help they need, but shall not be deprived of their culture, language and identity. In order to obtain foster homes with the same language and cultural background as the child’s, the call for different ethnic environments is for them to be foster parents. I am aware that it is not always as easy to consider all matters, but we must always keep the best of the child in mind. Being entitled to their own culture, even when at home conditions are difficult, is a welfare society worthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2036	As the president sees the list of speakers from here, it's going to be an evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2039	After eight years in the family and cultural committee, I had very high expectations that the Council of State would bring about new and ground-breaking reforms for the child protection sector, because in the family and cultural committee it was especially SV Progress Party that worked very well with. In addition, state councils have been high on the track in a number of media lately, so expectations were high, but, unfortunately, disappointment became even greater. The only thing I could track news was that the Council of State would create a sample that would look at the biological principle. Of course, the biological principle is not very important for SV – we know that – and sometimes I wonder if SV really wants the state to take over all children from birth and then shape them in its own socialist image. But the Council of State is rocking something fundamental in my values when it comes to investigating the biological principle – as if there are any questions about whether biological association matters at all. In addition, setting aside the biological principle violates both human rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So what the Council of State could do for child protection is selectivity, investigation and 240 million. kr, earmarked for child protection posts, to which municipalities received fresh money in 2010. Since the municipalities did not use these and therefore did not give priority to the protection of children in 2010, the same municipalities will receive a further 240 million. NOK, but this time earmarked kroner, in the hope that it will get up to the number of posts. Well, well, the living will see! Also in the past, we've seen that ear-marked substances are used for completely different things. Now we've had a red-green majority government for five years – five years, President! We've heard how to bet on poverty and the vulnerable children. Then it's time to get something done. I get a little tired when the representative Gjul stands here and talks about historical child protection. So now this government has been sitting and having opportunities for five years, and the queues in child protection have only grown and grown. Then it's time to do something. Governments are talking about deadlines. There are 170 children on the waiting list for foster homes. There are 860 waiting lists for supervisors. There are 672 cases in processing queues in the counties. It doesn't help to build an even bigger bureaucracy. You have to take action to give help to the kids who really need it. Investigations and selections do not provide children and young people with the assistance they need. It gives us at best probably a NOW or a report on the state of things, a state that has been stationary for five years. On Friday 19 November, the same day the Council of State gave its statement, we could read on VG Net that 18-year-olds are being dumped by child protection. Despite the need for an action plan and despite the fact that they still need close relations, child protection in many municipalities does not want to have strong young people in their system. They thus ease them to the Nav and the social offices. Children’s protection is required to ask young people if they want follow-up, but according to the National Children’s Rights Association, very few young people are being asked. There is a lot that could have been changed in the law on child protection services. Times have changed, and new needs have arisen since it came in 1992, not least in terms of communication, maturity and cultural differences between children and young people. What the Council of State should have done was to review and revise that law, not just put down a sample that would look at the biological principle. We've seen the state council on TV many times in the last year where he said that this cannot be accepted, this is not good enough, and that should not happen. Most of us know what things I'm talking about. But how many more cases will such as overdoses, deaths, escapes and criminal acts take place before the Council of State actually takes action? It is obvious to me – and many with me – that for the government councils, pappaper commissions, human panels and women's panel are far more important than the most vulnerable in our society, namely those who are at risk of violence, abuse, and those who have to live with their heavy drug-abuse parents, because the red-green government has failed those who need it the most – the vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2058	On my way to Stortinget, I read Henrik Ibsen every day. He has a text, or three words, that's on the sidewalk over here: what's right, he asks. I think it is an important question to ask yourself in a difficult debate on how to take care of children under the care of child protection in the best possible way. I think the most dangerous thing we can do is get to a phase response with two lines below. Because the world isn't like that, and neither are the children. I think it is very good that the Council of State has raised this issue to an open debate and is inviting for good dialogue. Unfortunately, I feel that much of the debate is related to frameworks and structures, cows, money, people, knowledge and education. Children must be children, and they do not live in child protection. They live in civil society. They're my grandchildren' classmates. The parents live in my gate. I know someone who has had the help of child protection. What concerns me – and there is little room in a message – is how we constitute the reality of these children in public space. What are we going to tell you? Yeah, we'll tell you two things. One is that the children are sacrifices; they are helpless sacrifices. The second is that the children are emotional villains. These are the two hallmarks that society places these children in, in a large part of this debate. They're not. They're neither just victims nor just villains. They live a life with a daily life that is closely related to child protection. They're elsewhere. They're in school, they're in recreational activities, they're on cultural offer. It is important for us not to forget that there is where the measures will work. It worries me a little bit that we might leave it in the debate that we all agree on – that the framework is too small, there are too long queues, there are structural problems, there are problems related to employee knowledge – become a sleeping cushion for us, that we can borrow back and say that we can't do anything because we don't have more resources, we can't do anything because we don't have more competent people, we can't do anything because we're not professional enough. Children need professionalism in those areas where they need professionalism. They don't need professionalism in their lives. That's where they need to be with adults. I am very pleased that the government we have has a long-term perspective on how to create a society that gives greater space for children in the civil world, not only within the service posts. It is about ‘drop-out’, about child protection, the Interaction Reform. This applies to bets on the drug field, in children’s homes and in the cultural school system – offers to all those who also benefit children with special problems. Then I won't let mention the most important thing. That's the babysitting. For me, there is no government other than a government from the left-hand side had got full child-care coverage in a society. Special attention has also been paid to voluntary sector actions in this budget. I read the fatherland friend today, there was an interview with a fireman – NRK will award this year’s fireman – who says that if he had received money for his job, he would not have had it. I think it's worrying that we think a lot of money, that we think of wages as much as I think we often do when we talk about this. We also need to have room for voluntary engagement and for us as civil society and individuals to take responsibility for meeting these children where we are at all times, without thinking about community service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2075	Over the years, for various reasons, I have had a view of child protection, and the quality and, in particular, the results concern me. I therefore followed the Council of State statement with excitement. But again I couldn't recognize myself. Although the Council of State admits some weaknesses and some challenges in child protection, the overall impression was that the Council of State believes that there is no crisis. And there we disagree. I therefore took a phone call to the child protection manager in a larger municipality in the eastern part of the country. I gave a summary of the Council's statement for that person. In fact, the child protection manager was both upset and reported. Yeah, that's all it does. Our everyday life is far from his council, but there is nothing new," he said. And then he told me what the everyday life is like for the employees. I want to add that he has been a child protection manager for 20 years. He told me about the everyday life of the children, who usually have to wait months for help. And he told us about how the employees of the municipality are repeatedly run over by the state in terms of what is best for the individual child. This child-responsor told me about a child-rescue day in which I knew myself. Because of my knowledge of child protection, I was elected as a representative of the party in the Grand Stortinges Charity Replacement Committee. The sad thing about sitting there is the recognition that many of the mistakes we made in 1950, we're still doing. Despite the fact that thousands of thousands have been replaced by the Norwegian state for misposition, for having been moved around countless places, or for lack of supervision that has resulted in mental, physical and sexual abuse, we are making many of the same mistakes today. When are we really going to learn? One of the applicants from the last selection meeting described it quite well: Where would the system be? Who was responsible? How could anyone who was supposed to take care of us and manage our lives fail us to those degrees? Care failure, they said about my parents, but this was the worst care failure a child could experience. Sent around in different places as a parcel post, split from its siblings – and the basic thing a child needs was lack of food. How could child protection permit this? And here I was placed with fifteen others who had suffered almost the same fate. Was it any wonder that we had stopped trusting in the system, and that hatred was stronger than love? Last summer I got a new example of this. A drug addict I know left a few years ago the voluntary care of his son for child protection. She understood that she herself was unable to provide her child with safe and good growth conditions. But as she herself says today, I did this because I was 100 pst. ensure that child protection would give him better growing conditions than I could. Now she's in doubt. The boy has been moved around like a package, and is today a nervous, uneasy and rotting 12-year-old who needs much help. In the spring he was moved to an institution that was to be laid down two months later. That's why the trip went from foster home, to institution, to shelter and to a new foster home. He is 12 years old and has had four different homes to deal with in six months – a terrible destiny for some. And when I sent a written question to the Council of State this summer and took up this very problem of many movements, the Council of State managed to say that he has confidence that child protection had a good reason to do so. If the council had been worried about the child up in all of this, he would have said that it is actually unacceptable to move young children to an institution that you know is to be laid down just two months later. The council's answer disappointed me, because it means we never get any further if we accept such unnecessary moves. Finally, I would like to say that I do not share the view of the Council of State that the trust in child protection has increased. I believe that we have a significant job to do to improve confidence, and that means that it has to be cleaned up in child protection at all stages of the work. In particular, this applies to youth aged over 18 with drug problems. From all over the country, concerns are coming in from parents who do not get help for their children after the age of 18. Child protection repeatedly denies its responsibility by referring the youth to the specialist health service and their responsibility for drug treatment. Understandably, but here you're left with a throwball between systems, because no one wants to take the bill. I would like to ask the Council of State to follow up this issue with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2113	During the last year, the Municipal Committee visited seven counties and met many rapporteurs. In many places child protection has been the theme. Every day, important work is done for children and young people in municipalities. The number of children receiving child protection has increased sharply. That's great, and I agree with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality's analysis. When municipalities do a good job, the threshold for contacting child protection is lower. It is fundamentally positive, but also leads to more issues of child protection and to more visible needs. Concern messages shall not be provided for reasons of capacity. No more consideration shall be given to parents than to young people in need of help. Marius Sørensen-Measurement, in the organisation Children of drug users, has pointed to the problem of the obligation of professional secrecy being interpreted in such a way that there is no dialogue between child protection and schools, kindergartens and other alerts. I've met teachers who say that it's only idealistic, newly-trained teachers who report to child protection. That's what they're going to end up with. For either cases are not followed up, or the teachers themselves become stuck with the burden of proof. Not only do they have to answer for child protection, they also have to endure confrontations with their parents – and sometimes with their parents’ lawyers. The rapporteurs of the Municipal Committee are concerned. Concern is that it is difficult to prioritise child protection at the expense of other tasks, but also that cooperation between municipal and state child protection is not good enough. Several municipalities report a lack of foster homes and other measures; others see the country as a less flexible partner. KS Major Town Network believes today's organisation provides duplication of effort and poor use of scarce child protection resources. Evaluation by Fafo and NTNU shows that Oslo and Trondheim, who are also responsible for the state aspect of child protection, have gained greater flexibility in their actions and have gained more from their resources. It is gratifying that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is inviting a debate on the organisation of child protection. The discussion must be based on the fact that the municipalities are different. Several major municipalities should be able to take over child protection tasks from the State. Last year, children's representative Reidar Hjermann used the term "deep crisis". He pointed in particular to the problem that many municipalities have less than one child protection position. There shall be little imagination to know what a formidable personal and professional challenge it is to be child protection on its own in a part-time position in a transparent community. Former Head of the Rissa Municipality, Unni Korshavn, put forward the following words – in the Address Paper: ‘The legal certainty for children is lower in small municipalities because the threshold for reporting a care failure is higher. It will also do more before the protection of children intervenes in municipalities where everyone knows everyone.» When we can read in the same newspaper that Åfjorde municipality, with 1,200 inhabitants, has not had a single takeover of care in eleven years, they may be an expression that children in Åfjord are doing well, but it can also mean that child protection does not work properly. Unfortunately, we're not where we should be, but we're on the right track. A better community economy, the earmarking of funds for child protection, the debate on the organisation and assessment of the biological principle are good practices that will provide more children with the help they need. The way we look at and treat vulnerable young people is the lactose test itself on what kind of society we are. It is thoughtful that the press release is empty – completely empty – and has been so throughout this debate. Isn't it important enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2133	Thus, the regulatory time of the morning’s meeting is over. The vote will take a break in the debate, and the sitting will be resumed at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.03. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2148	The decision continues to deal with case No. 8 on Agenda No 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2151	‘Strength shall: you be you little half-line For All hurt you must die and all you must tolerate You arrived. world without self-understood Uncertainty and fear bleat yours Life’s path’» I think the poem by Inger Marie Nilsen, who has been publicly presented as a child protection child, is a good reminder of why we need child protection, namely to prevent children from growing up under unsafe conditions. The number of child protection messages has almost doubled since 2000. 46 pst. more people are being helped in the field of child protection today than in 2000. But the number of employees who are set to deal with these issues has only increased by 27 pst. during the same period. Childcare services work in many places with unoccupied jobs. The danger is if it leads to a higher threshold to provide help to the children and their families, or, for that matter, that the measures taken are not really what the children or the family need. This is probably happening, and it's a problem I think we should know a little bit more about. Today, of all the enquiries that are coming, more than 10,000 messages do not go to further child protection studies. It's also a ten-year double. I am, like many other speakers before me, concerned about the large number, especially because we see that there is still a high threshold to report a concern about the situation to a child. I want to say a little bit about a work that's going on in my region, where I come from, the Kongsberg region. In this context, I am talking about seven municipalities, Rollag, Nore and Uvdal, Kongsberg, Flesberg in Buskerud County and Hjartdal, Notodden and Tinn in Telemark County. They're doing an exciting job of establishing a common child protection system. It started with a common Children’s Protection Forum, and now they have an opportunity study that Telemark research has done for them, simply to see whether to establish a common child protection system, or perhaps two common child protection services, in these municipalities, based on inter-municipal solutions. I think it's a right way to go. Let me say something about it, and there are points that may be first and foremost documented through the report from Telemarksforschung. There is no doubt that child protection in many small and medium-sized municipalities in Norway has competence challenges or challenges related to the organisation of their services. In the next round, it can affect the children who need help. If you go to the report that is now made for the Kongsberg region, and see how the situation in those municipalities is described, it turns out that almost independently of the size and the municipality you're talking about, there are limited opportunities for specialisation in the service. It is difficult to obtain professional updates, professional guidance and consultations, and it is also difficult to obtain the right child protection measures, i.e. environmental workers, support contacts and relief homes in many places. It is difficult to get to a large enough professional environment, with one and a half child protection positions or two or maybe three, it is very difficult to have good professional discussions, a feeling quite alone. And this report also shows that the small municipalities – I think that is quite interesting – actually have the same types of challenges as the large municipalities. So it's a myth that there's a difference between town and country in child protection services, and the small municipalities say they have the same kind of challenges as the larger municipalities, but they have a worse chance of solving them. There is greater wear and tear on case handlers, of course they are vulnerable to crewing, holidays, absences, capacity problems, recruitment problems. And not least, in the end, this relationship issue, the fact that everyone knows everyone, is a challenge. I want to bring this to the ground as part of the debate. I think it's challenges that are important to take seriously, and I believe in larger environments and such kind of organisation. I'm not going to interfere with it as a big-time politician, of course the municipalities are going to be allowed to take those debates themselves, but I want to raise it up as an example of what I think is a right development. From the mouth of the child, it was once said, "I'm so glad I was born by Mom and Dad, it must be bad to be born by someone you don't know." Too many children are terrified to be with those from whom you have been born. We should never forget the children who need the help of society, and I also think that we should call on local politicians around Norwegian municipalities to get even more involved in the debate on the vulnerable children. They need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2206	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2209	I have to say I am a little disappointed in the debate we have had here today. I felt that what the council invited Stortinget to, was to discuss the great lines of future child protection and how we could best care for the needs of vulnerable children as a society. Unfortunately, we have not received that debate. Statistically, it is known that the main single cause of society’s intervention, in most cases, is violence — violence in close relationships, as it is so well called. It's about children who are subjected to physical, mental or material violence, or are witnesses to it. We can't leave that to child protection alone to resolve – then we'll never get to the goal. It was representatives before the break that said and talked about that nothing happened in five years. When you know that there is violence that is the biggest single cause that child protection should intervene, it falls on its own unreasonableness. It is such that it was a severe breach of the government's promises in the last period. We evaluated, for example: to launch one children's home, we got seven in place – a severe lifting break. We were able to turn back a police force that, when the representative Hofstad Helleland was in the Justice Committee, under the Bondevik II government, ‘the order of the place’, it was in the protocol to the police when they were out on the housewreck. Today, everything is recorded and followed up in the police districts. And there has been a lot of violence and violence in close relationships, in fact so much that in the action plan of the government called the ‘turnpoint’, more than 30 measures can now be crossed. So standing here on this pulpit and saying that nothing has happened is undermining the policy in general, and what this hall does in particular, is a senseless activity. We have to be careful to do that. Because if we are to be able to do something for those children who really need a comprehensive political environment in their backs, we have to dare to debate this hugely: about what it really is about. And there's a lot more than just systems or percentage changes in money. The cultural struggle that the Minister of Justice has waged to change Police Norway, we must contribute to running for all the inhabitants of the country. It's not going to help anything until we adults get out of the comfort zone that makes us care when we see these kids. These children don't get help until we adults really dare to care, and don't say it's the child protection that should have been fixed. No, it's the neighboring ring, it's the teacher, it's me and you as private people who are the key to these children. And if we as politicians are not going to be able to take that debate in a more proper and serious way than what we have done today, then these children are in a bad position. We now need men to get our political parties to run this straight, so that the local government around Norway is as concerned about it as it is about the care of the elderly. There are as many children who need our help as there are older people who need care places.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2222	It's been an interesting debate. I would like to point out to the representative Haugli that I think you should be a little careful to draw conclusions about a single municipality, which he does in the case of Åfjord Municipality – probably a municipality he does not know well enough to analyse the state of child protection and for the municipality's own children. Now I am not going to conclude with what is right, but I encourage Haugli to take a study trip to Åfjord Municipality before he concludes specifically about the state of a single municipality. But I also took the floor to comment on the debate on the biological principle. I support the initiative of the Council of State to review it. It's one of the most central issues we have in child protection, and one of the most serious issues. There are many simplified ideas in the debate, which give the impression that the conclusions of this review have been taken in advance. Some of the Council's opinions also show in a way which way he wants to draw that pendulum. I have not concluded for my part, but I think it is important to go through the theme. And then I'll bring on the track some moments that show the complexity of the issue, and nuance more than the debate has done. First, what is a good crop? We can never finish discussing that. The generation before us, yes, two generations before us, had completely different assessments of it. And one generation further on, you'll have new reviews of it. We're going to have humility on that question. What is a care failure, and what is a normal and good growth? Secondly, in most cases, there is in fact no contradiction between the interests of parents and the interests of children. We must never forget that when we talk about child protection. If we construct such a contradiction when there's no basis for it, we do child protection a bear service. Thirdly, we need to show some humility so that too many of the children we have actually taken care of do not get a good offer afterwards – with many moves. It must also be held up to where the threshold must be to move. Fourthly, adoption is highlighted as a simple solution in many cases. In the United Kingdom, often referred to, 20 out of 100 adoptions of children aged 5–12 have resulted in the child having to be moved out again after adoption, and it is itself very serious. So it's not that simple either. In addition, we lack some knowledge about the adverse effects of relocation, and of course also about the adverse effects of growth in homes with different problems. The question also has a human rights dimension that is very important to bring with it. I don't have the answers on which way the pendulum should swing. I support going through the theme. But then we have to go into the debate with great humility for complexity, and with an open mind in view of the fact that there are many assessments to be made before we know what the conclusion is to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2243	Based on today's debate, it is not easy to understand what the Progress Party wants with child protection. I have to say that there are quite a few allegations that were made in the intervention of the representative Woldseth against both the government and my party – accusations that we are against people growing up with their own parents, that we want the state to come and take the children, and that kind of thing. In the same article, the representative says that we are failing the children who have to grow up with violent parents, and we are failing the children who have to grow up with parents with drug problems. And you can then look at the following: If you are betting on more measures, as we do, is it to intervene and take children from their parents – or is it right? Governments have set up a panel to discuss the biological principle. The reason for this is that it is necessary to discuss whether it is sometimes the way to attach too much weight to biology in child protection, whether it is sometimes the way it gets in the way of children’s rights – that is, to the emphasis on parents’ rights more than children’s rights. I lean on the speeches of the previous speaker, and I'm glad that it comes up. This is part of the debate that both the representative Woldseth and the representative of Hofstad Helleland have raised in relation to the fact that the government is most concerned with investigating and not acting. First of all, I want to say that they're wrong. This government has addressed what is the biggest problem in child protection today, namely that there are not enough hands in municipal child protection. Designation of child protection posts is a direct injection for better action for children and for more hands. Secondly, to snuff out investigations and things like that: this is about raising important debates, it's about making the kids who are in child protection today visible the issues they're up to, every single day. For the first time in many years, child protection is high on the political agenda. That space I think we should use to raise the issues that are important to them. There is no contradiction between action and visibility, and debate – it is actually necessary to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2256	Based on the post of the Council of State this afternoon, it seems that the Council of State is somewhat upset that the opposition is impatient and wants action and change in child protection. I don't think it's so strange that the opposition is impatient, when the red-greens have been responsible for child protection for five years now, and you keep running evaluations and investigations without so much happening. Yes, in fact, I think it is allowed to ask for action from the government. I also notice that the government parties are using this debate to try as best they can to draw a horror picture, that the Right is about to rage over the state child protection. This is of course completely wrong. They're going to repeat it in the years to come, but untruths won't be more true if they're repeated. I think it's getting a little bit small when a council of states in a majority government – those who have the opportunity to get settled in the building, to clean up the critical situation – comes to the Stortinget and from this pulpit blames that the opposition does not promote action, does not promote enough proposals, owes it to the opposition because we haven't done enough. Instead of discussing child protection measures, I have to stand here and defend myself against accusations made earlier today by the Council of State regarding the Right Budget – accusations that are actually false. It will be completely wrong for me when I have to answer such claims instead of participating in a constructive debate. But what is the matter – I'm going to make it quite clear to the red-green parties – is that we are told that too much of the resources of the state child protection go to administration, to paperwork, to bureaucracy. Money goes to these things instead of to the kids – and those who need it the most. That is why we take those signals seriously, and that is why we are moving money, from child protection bureaucracy to child protection work. The money is to be spent on the young outside the municipalities. Those who are closest to the children are the ones who need it the most. That's why the right will grant 400 million. kr to the municipalities, and we are very happy that the government is now following in the bet that the Right came into the last year’s budget – and that the funds for 400 posts in the municipalities have finally been failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2263	Several speakers have described what we are actually doing in child protection; we are now strengthening the municipal child protection that is the child protection that is going to meet both parents and young people who need help. We do that, and it's important. But we also make sure that state child protection has money, so that it can meet the parents and the children who need help at that level, both to state foster homes and to institutions. The problem here is not that we are attacking the Right and the Advance Party, but we are describing the consequences of the budget proposals they themselves are making. And they can't stand to hear that. They describe the situation of young people as critical — and then they describe what we know about treatment, follow-up in state foster homes, state-enhanced foster homes, and institutional settings. It's not just bureaucrats sitting in Buffetat. I will admit that I was critical of the reform that came, and I will not necessarily defend the reform in the future. But when we're going to change this, we have to do it seriously -- go through it properly. I want to put a lot more emphasis on what the panel says and comes up with – a panel composed of people who know something about child protection, who have been in the child-restraint seams as kids – than random poaching representatives who have been visiting some office. I've been, and I've got a lot of different stories. I have noticed at least that the child-restraint leaders are satisfied with the direction it is now taking, and what we have done – although perhaps some are not. I also feel that part of the debate about private organisations has a strange impact here. I just want to remind you that the biggest player in the private market now is Aleris, owned by billionaire Wallenberg. It is possible that the Progress Party and the Right think it is very nice to give them money. We've seen in the alternative budgets that they believe this is an important task to spend money on. But it doesn't seem like SV necessarily is a wise way to spend money. We want to cooperate with the non-profit voluntary sector, and we can also cooperate with the private sector on the basis that it is quality – but then it has to be quality. I have to ask you to stop talking about the state institutions as if they don't necessarily have quality. Yes, they have quality, and they also deserve respect. It is important that we build these institutions so that there is enough room for those who need it, that those places have quality, and that we focus on the individual needs of each child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2274	The protection of children shall ensure that children and young people living under conditions likely to harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. In this way, the protection of children shall contribute to secure conditions of growth for children and young people. I fully agree with the Council of State that this purpose paragraph of the Children's Protection Act is not to misunderstand. The Council of State also explains that much has been done to increase child protection. There are more and more messages, and the number that have been helped has increased by 46 pst. from 2000 to 2010. Our challenge is that child protection must be resourceful and capable of meeting this growth. I also fully agree with the Council of State that the main work for and for children and young people today is done by the municipalities. Municipal services such as school, kindergarten, health centre, permanent staff and school health services are services that reach all children and young people, and provide us with a unique starting point to prevent better and deliver early interventions. I think that a little bit of the challenge in child protection today is to be able to integrate municipal child protection with the other public services in the municipality that are aimed at children and young people. State Council The Lighthouse is in its presentation with two groups of children who need better follow-up in the institution. One is a child who has mental problems. The other is children who have a defined drug problem. I'm glad the Council of State mentions these groups. I think the measures referred to by the Council of State are reassuring. Because it is a fact that there is too much alcohol and heavy alcohol among young people under the care of child protection. It is reported that children and young people are introduced to drug use and drug abuse when they come under the care of child protection. There will also be the debate on coercion and, where appropriate, increased use of coercion. I am very pleased that there has now been a review of the regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying at a child protection institution. What I miss in the debate is a greater focus on the reasons why parents do not do their care tasks and are unable to create a home that is protective and safe to grow up in. We like to talk about children’s drug problems and children’s mental disorders, but the real problem in general in child protection is adult drug abuse. There may not be a few cases where there is a transfer of care or other measures, where the cause can be attributed to parental drug abuse. This applies to both alcohol abuse and drug abuse. Many suffer from parental drug abuse and are related to their own parents. Alcohol use is, of course, a major social problem in Norway in general, but I would like to remind you that there is also a significant factor in tackling the challenges we face today in the provision of child protection services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2287	The Right Party and the Advance Party are very clear about the criticism. Then it kind of surprises me that they take it so hard to get some criticism back, as they obviously do. I think this has been an important debate, because it shows how lightly the Right and the Progressive Party's criticism of the government is. They criticise us for not acting, when we act in exactly the areas that they encouraged us to act a few months ago. They criticise us for investigating when we are investigating questions in which they themselves do not have concrete suggestions on how to solve the problems. And they cut deep into child protection without being able to explain what child protection shouldn't do when they lose hundreds of millions of dollars. It's true that we have a red tape challenge in Buffetat. We have probably had it due to errors that were made when the Right sat in government and created the day's meal. But it's adventure to think that you can cut 400 million. kr, corresponding to hundreds of jobs, without affecting children and creating a lower level of child protection. What I think this debate is missing is an offensive right-hand response to the challenge that we have given and that I wanted to invite the Stortinget to, namely concrete proposals and discussions on the development of the child protection of the future. I have actually only heard one very concrete proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party, and that is that we must have more commercial institutions. Then I would like to pick up the thread from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland's contributions earlier today, because she actually invited to a debate on the professional advice on child protection related to whether we should choose foster homes more than institutions. It has now been the policy for a while because, in the child protection debate, there has been an overwhelming turn in that direction. We who are here are all politicians. We're a toy. We're not -- at least I'm not -- child protection professionals trained or experts at it. That is why we have to deal to some extent with the professional advice we receive. But of course, there are also political considerations about what kind of action we're going to take in child protection. That's why, to the extent that it's positive, I think it's a willingness to engage in those questions. But I'm a little worried that the right side might push an argument that foster homes may not be so good for the children anyway, in front of them in a fight for as many private institutions as possible. There are signs that we have used institutions too much in Norway. For example, institutions are much more used in the West than in other parts of the country, without any indication that we have a better child protection or are able to help more children in that part of the country — even though it is a brilliant part of the country. So I think we need a debate on whether or not to allow commercialisation. The right-hand side is constantly talking about private versus public, while it's really about, is whether we're going to let go of a number of commercial players, which will not least affect the ideal actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2301	I'm going to use the freedom of choice, which the Right is so concerned about, to tell you something about what I think should be included in child protection, and don't care about the Right attack on our policy. What should we do with the image created by these children in the public debate, as either victim or villain? State Council The Lighthouse was inside it in his post when he referred to the Change Factory and the National Association for Children's Protection. Both of these are concerned that the children are experts on their own lives. The change factory even talks about ‘child protection professionals’, and the National Children’s Protection Association is clear that they need to be listened to, their experience needs to be used. And it is important that in our organisation of child protection, we stress that children have their own voice – a clear voice in how the service should be organised, and a clear voice in the content of child protection services. Conversation and dialogue — and also coercion in some cases — must be used wisely and cleverly, and the children are the best people to advise us on how this can happen and how it should be developed. We have started to get good methods of dialogue and dialogue that promote growth, responsibility and change requests from both children and employees. Family councils and big meetings are two examples. There, the professional, theory-professional voices can become useful input into the children's own dreams and hope for a good life. In the case of biological principle, coercion, delimitation, etc. too, children's experience must be part of the decision-making basis and content. Finally, I will mention a group of children with whom I hope the Council will keep an extra eye on, and which requires close follow-up. There are children who have parents who are in prison. They are often forgotten. But there's a group we know has great challenges in living its everyday life outside of others. It is also the families that are most affected by poverty and exclusion in our society. So it's a recommendation to the Council of State not to forget those children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2316	This has been a strange debate. There have been very many good posts that have really focused on the situation of child protection today, and how many children and adults out there know the situation they are in every day, on the body. On Friday we heard the Council statement. I sat and listened, and I found out that I agreed to almost 99 pst. that what he said. I'm actually starting my post today by giving praise to the Council of State to travel this debate here today. I'm sure he really cares that child protection in Norway is going to work. We have been asked to have a debate today on the presentation that came. And then there will be a discussion and a debate here about who gives the most money, and who will cut, instead of discussing solutions. What this debate is about must be that we should have a child protection that works. And it's not unknown for this hall that the Progress Party believes that the biological principle is very strong, and so it's been from Anders Lange's fall. The progress party believes that the most reasonable way to drive child protection is to have early help at home, because then we can manage to avoid the children being taken out of their families. Then we also know that sometimes you have to intervene, and that the state has to take over the responsibility. But that's precisely when the problems come, because we see that when the state takes responsibility, it doesn't work. We see that more and more children switch foster homes because it doesn't work. More and more do not get the supervision they require. Among other things, we see that we need to have a debate and a discussion on how to tackle this further. This debate has also concerned the budget, including the budget of the Progress Party. State Child Protection has a budget next year of 5 billion. kr. In that budget, the Progress Party is not cutting, but we are moving 500 million. kr. We're moving 200 million. NOK to the municipalities and the first line service, and we take SEK 300 million. NOK and use them for the purchase of private services. Municipalities may also make use of these. So the Council of State calls for action – yes. The Progress Party has proposed previous assistance, to have a diversity, both state and municipal foster homes. We can have institutions, both private and public. But we also have to have earmarks. We've been calling for ear tagging for a long time. Now it's finally come, and it's all right. But I'm afraid that what comes from the government is not enough. That's why we hope and believe that there'll be more. Because if a lot of samples is put down – and the Progress Party looks forward to it – we still need to have some immediate action. We have to put that in place, so that the kids who are out there today do not suffer, and so that we do not hear the news tomorrow or Friday about children who get problems when responsibility for them is taken over by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2331	The Council of State calls for a constructive debate. As you call in the woods, you get answers. So now we haven't just been read down by invitations to debate concrete things, and when we finally get to this crossroads, I don't want to say that the government appears with very great imagination. It's probably idea-dry and business-as-usual that's the headline. We would like to have a debate in the future. We would like to have a debate on whether child protection is properly aligned with the balance between state and municipal activities. We have no record that child protection must be organised just as it is today. Rather, we believe that the five, or maybe six-seven years that have passed, tell us that here should be quite a thank-you. Our proposal, which has been promoted in this room on some occasions, is that we should run some municipal pilots, that we should gain experience in how to strengthen municipal child protection, that we should start projects related to the groupings of small municipalities that we know work on child protection for our own machine today. The government, as far as I can see, has not just come up with a lot of initiatives in that regard. So the question of public and private: one of the boring things is that we're discussing it on the surface. My challenge to the state council is: All right, we're assuming that a desire will get rid of the private part of child protection. Perhaps it would have been interesting then to have a problematisation about how to maintain our skills – because it is therefore a frenzy of competence when the small actors disappear. We're not talking about Aleris. Aleris is a consequence of government policy, because only Aleris is left. All the little ones disappear, because they can't stand the competition. How do you safeguard professional diversity in order to strengthen child protection that obviously needs to be more dynamic and that needs to adapt to individual cases in a better way than we have seen so far? Child protection is about tailoring. Then you must also be able to get the offers out. Laila Gustavsen of the Workers' Party had an excellent post, I think, where she pointed out the need to just get out with knowledge, and where she pointed out the need for tailoring. Where has the government ever problemed this, in relation to how today's child protection actually manages to do this most important task? The right has proposed an offer portal. We have made concrete proposals on how we think this can be arranged. We are systematically downgraded by the position, without being particularly involved in the debate. The debate may come, but it therefore demands that there be some input to make the debate relevant and the debate possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2344	It was the representative of Håbreek who made me redraw. I record that the representative is calling for humility, but he himself is very sure that a post he could not possibly have listened very well to. I take the invitation to travel to Åfjord Municipality on a study trip, but I have not stated the quality of child protection in Åfjord or in any other single municipality. In my contribution, I pointed to the challenge of child protection in the small municipalities. In the case of Åfjord, the fact is that they, with their 1,200 inhabitants, have not had a single takeover in eleven years. It may have several explanations, but the municipality itself has come to the conclusion that it needs to strengthen child protection. The representative can read about it in the Address Paper if he wants to. Since October last year, the Municipal Committee has met between 60 and 80 rapporteurs, most of whom are rapporteurs in small municipalities. They express concern. If hope does not take my word for it, he should at least listen to former director Unni Korshavn of Rissa Municipality. She knows her municipality, and when she says that the legal security of children is worse in small municipalities, we should listen. ‘Children cannot choose the municipality in which they are to be subjected to care failure, but it is worst to be abused in a small municipality.’ The words aren't mine. They are taken from a thought-provoking comment by Kjetil B. Alstadheim in Today's Business in March. He has a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2356	It was the post of the representative Thomas Breen who made me take the floor. It was also a very good post, where he, among other things, indicates that it is not just child protection alone that can solve all problems. He points out that there are several people who must be conscious of their responsibilities. Among other things, he points. on the «nabokerringa», and actually he points well to both you and me, that we all have a responsibility. He points to this that has to do with violence in close relations, an important topic that I also know the Council of State is concerned about. One of the measures to try to address this problem is the work of Alternatives to Violence. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to a statement of concern from Telemark. So because of capacity problems in Alternatives to Violence, you have recently had to reject over 100 cases, i.e. when they had to reject case no. 100, then they stopped counting. And so this is a measure that, among other things. the protection of children refers to. The despair is quite great when so many children – or women, for that matter – who are subjected to violence are rejected because there is no capacity to accept them. I know that Alternative to Violence is one of the government's lighthouses in combating violence in close relations. It is pointed out in the government budget that these are measures which must also be extended; several offices must be opened. I think it's very good, and I support it, but it must be in such a way that we have a capacity that allows us to meet the need that is out there. Because it is quite clear that when it comes to violence in close relationships, putting it on the agenda, you simply get more things. It is good that it is referred to, but it must therefore be referred to an action that is up and down and that works. I took the floor because I wanted to make the Council aware of it, and I hope that he can bring this information with him and look at measures, or at least consider how to correct the bias that exists. Finally, a little heartache: I note that in this debate there is a great deal of satisfaction in the government parties in terms of what one has managed to achieve so far. I miss a little bit more humility in relation to the large, unsolved tasks within municipal child protection, within foster homes, within aftercare. Because it is clear that we still have a job to do, and in this debate I call for a slightly greater humility, also among the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2367	One representative – or more, in fact – has been concerned about whether this is a debate to get wise. I was on the family committee at Stortinget from 1997 to 2001, and I hear the same thing being said today as it was said in 1997. And then I think you shouldn't just be humble, but you might want to go into your own ideology and look at what's wrong. The question then has to be asked: Has child protection as an institution survived — in relation to the challenges we face? Has it improved in the last 15 years? Is the talk of resources and money the only solution? Do we need to evaluate? Do we need more action plans? What new alternatives exist for these children? Does it have a connection with modern family structure? That's what we should go in and look at. When we have a situation there closer to 30 pst. Of children under 25 years of age — to say that — in contact with psychiatry, there is a fundamental problem. Maybe there's a problem in kindergarten, maybe there's a bigger problem in school, etc. There's a lot of options around us. In 1997–98, the Progress Party promoted a number of proposals related to the follow-up to surrogacy, which at least this government is not interested in, because it is about the private sector again, which may have alternatives to getting these children to the right. This government has nothing to boast of – 2,000 children under criminal detainees put on smooth cell in 2009. It's a serious problem, but you say you have the solution in all the areas. A response to the representative Karin Andersen: I have met with an incredible number of child protection children, especially between 1997 and 2001, but also now as the chair of the Justice Committee. Many of these criminal children and young people come from child protection. Then we have to go inside and look at child protection and how to work there. Why is it that you go into child protection as small or medium and come out as a criminal? Is it perhaps the case that someone here -- I understand -- germinates from the biological bond that exists? You don't have to play with it, because that's exactly what these kids are pointing at. I'm not going to add up to any major ideological debate, but when I listen to Andersen's representative, I hear a disgust for private and for profit, and it actually has more weight and more interest in this government than proper care and proper provision for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2380	I thought I'd say what I was really going to say in the first post. To the representative Bekkewold I would say that I am in no way satisfied with the state of things, but we are on the right course. It must be possible to express also from this pulpit in view of the fact that we are on the trail of something, and then I thought that I should focus on a few things that I think are very central in helping these kids get on with. It's not like the representative Thommes said that nothing is happening. No, last January a letter was sent to all the rapporteurs of the country asking that work be started locally to put in place an action plan for the situation of many of these young people. With that letter it also followed a template from NKVTS – the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, I think it's called – on how to design that plan. It shows some of the complexity in this field. It's not just about money, it's not just about ideological debate, it's not just about what child protection will look like in the future. It's more about how to make a total use of community resources for the benefit of these kids. Then there is one element that I think all of us can at least agree on, without affecting either ideology or money use, and that is that we, as politicians, are talking to our local politicians who are school owners, for example, so that they are conscious of the obligation to report. It is the case today that you are far more concerned with the obligation of professional secrecy than you are with the obligation to notify. It's a big problem for all these kids who don't get seen. I wish we had more criminal cases for breaching the obligation to report, and that it set a standard, so that one simply got a reverse fear, a fear of not complying with the obligation to report rather than a fear of breaking the obligation of confidentiality. That's the kind of bond we have to get up together, we're going to move on a little bit. Otherwise, we can discuss until we get to grips with ideology and money use. The shades of it are relatively small in any case. For 80 pst. Of the kids that are never seen, we all have a responsibility. Then we can do a lot without it being about money or ideology. It's about an honest commitment out there, which through our party bodies can be pushed down into the systems, so that you get as many locally elected trustees as the senior care. When I travel around and meet local politicians, as the municipal committee does, care for the elderly is quick – child protection needs to be sorted out by someone else. We have to stop that, because there are exactly as many kids who need the big community, as there are older people who need the big community. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2393	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2396	The first representative of Haugli will find out when he travels on a study trip to Åfjord, is that the municipality has 3,223 inhabitants and not 1,200, as he said. I was very careful not to conclude what is the state of child protection, and then people themselves read the record and assess whether Håkon Haugli went further into it in their first post. At the end of the debate, it is far more important to look at the big lines, what this means for child protection in the future. I have so much understanding that the government has fallen for the temptation to go to the Right and the Advance Party, because they are going radically to work in their alternative budget and paints with a broad brush. Yes, but I'm concerned that there is so little humility in relation to the major challenges that remain, despite the fact that fresh money has been put in the state budget – foster home queues, major challenges in municipal child protection, aftercare, supervisors, etc. The Christian People's Party is not going to surrender until we have put in place a stepping-up plan for full child protection. That is my last greeting in the debate, and that plan must actually come quickly, long before the fall of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2405	It is important that we spend time and get a proper evaluation on the table, but at the same time we must not forget that there are a number of things we can do while waiting for this evaluation, things that are independent of structure. The Council of State has said that you are willing to look at changes, such as: The change factory has come forward. In addition, we should also follow up the legislative changes made in recent years, and see if it leads to the concrete changes that you actually want, whether the legal system is good enough to follow up, and whether the kids get the adjustment needed to make them feel well cared for. I think that is a good connection, that, on the one hand, time is spent on structure, while at the same time I perceive that the Council of State is also taking concrete action and doing some concrete things now. Then I have to enter the structure. If you want to say something about the quality of child protection in smaller municipalities, or say something about the situation for children who need child protection in smaller municipalities, you can't draw any concrete examples and make it a general picture. Then there are enough examples, even in larger municipalities. The challenges in many smaller municipalities are precisely the proximity, the transparency, the visibility that is there. But it is also the great strength of these municipalities. I know that especially in my own home country. We have to say something about our expectations for the municipalities, and then it has to be up to the municipalities themselves to see how they will organize themselves. Then you do something about the challenges that, among other things, Haugli's pointing. So to the debate on private versus public institutions. I perceive that there is a broad consensus that it is the child's best that should be crucial. Then it makes sense to have a diversity of institutions. But there is a distinction between the smaller, private actors and the large commercial ones, which I perceive that there have also been several representatives from SV. It is possible that the representative Thommes is right in his analysis that the big ones are growing, and that it is the big institutions that are doing well. I believe that we should look at today's tendering policy and see whether it is appropriate in relation to the objectives we have. In this debate, I see that we from the government parties are quite wide-ranging about it. Nor do I experience a great allergy, which some choose to call it, to private actors from my government partners. Then I have to say that the debate has been good in many ways. You have different points of entry, but for my part, I think that the opposition has now made concrete proposals and is in sight, so it's probably a nice mix of criticism, which the opposition might always come up with, and also a lot of input that I think the government has tried to follow up to a great extent, and which we now deliver here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2418	I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State initiated this statement on child protection, because it has helped us to have a very good debate here today on how to take care of the kids who have the most trouble in our society. I must also be allowed to place the representatives who have now talked so much about the municipality of Åfjord, a visit, because I also want my party trap Håkon Haugli to join Åfjord and visit our joint party trap Vibeke Stjern, who is rapporteur in Åfjord, who has taken the initiative for child protection cooperation on Fosen, which includes, among others. the municipality of Rissa, which has also been mentioned in this context. In the arrangement that the government now has for the child protection effort, we will really stimulate the municipalities to cooperate across the municipal borders in order to achieve good child protection. So I'm typing that these municipalities will get out of the bet that we're doing. Some reason why I asked for the floor was that the representative Thommess accuses the government of having both an idea-drier and a bad imagination in terms of child protection. I really have to say that when we make the greatest effort to protect children and go to work systematically both to secure foster homes and in other areas, I think it's quite amazing that you can describe it as a lack of imagination. But I have to say that I don't think that the Right is imaginative when the answer is always privatization, because if you look at what they are now saying about private child protection institutions, they've been yelling wolf for several rounds in the last year that it's so scary and dangerous that we're kissing please, please, little by little in private child protection institutions. We've also cut a little bit in the public child protection institutions, because we actually think foster homes are a better option. But when you do a little cut, as you have done, on approx. 2 pst. In private child protection institutions, what has been done there is quite outrageous. When you then use the word competence, I really have to say that there is something that will contribute to the exchange of skills, it is the steps that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now taking when they are cutting dramatically in the state child protection. When you cut, like Right, 400 million. In the worst case, it will mean cutting 670 posts. Isn't this a breakdown of competence? If you're saying that there's someone who doesn't have ideas about how to create a good child protection, and who's just fanatical about betting on private alternatives, it's really the Right Party and the Advance Party, who can't see that we need a child protection based on having both state, ideal and private institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2432	There's a lot of numbers in the air here. I don't want to use my acquaintances three minutes to explain to them, but just say that this is a signal of a wish at least for a debate and also a desire for a system change. As the Council of State is now on the list of speakers right after me, I would like to challenge the Council of State on the issue of the relationship between the municipality and the state. Yes, we put child protection at a state level because we thought the small municipalities wouldn't do the task. I think that's really the bottom line of why we left it like that. There was great doubt. That was a big debate. I think there's every reason to look at the experiences we've had, in terms of whether there was any trick. It is not at all certain that there was any trickery grip. We think it probably wasn't. At least we think it's the drawing. We think the municipalities will be closer to the users. They have a story for the kids. They'll be able to give the children a more accurate offer. We think there'll be less bureaucracy in municipal context than what we've seen now has evolved in the state. As a result, there is also a better use of resources, which we should all be interested in. So the question is, what about the small municipalities? What about the argument we used when we added it to the state? There we have seen that the small municipalities, with no particular stimulus from the state, which we might think they should have, actually organize themselves in groups. We see it in Sogn and Fjordane. We see it in More and Romesdal. As far as I remember, Morene and Romsdal have organized themselves together with the municipality of Molde, which has a large and competent bureaucracy to take care of it. Could you maybe approach this from such an angle? If you think you had a system where small municipalities simply didn't have this task – that you had different tasks like large and small municipalities in terms of what we're talking about now. I wish we could come to this kind of discussion and meet in and take it from if we move then and so much money from here to there. The right-hand draft budget reflects the desire for this discussion. So to the question that Breen and Becquerad have been in on, about violence and the surrounding things. Then I want to point to cultural policy, and I want to raise the question that I have raised for the Huitfeldt Council of State, that perhaps there should have been a more targeted poverty trend around instruments of cultural policy, where children who fall outside can also get involved. Then we're talking about targeted measures, and we're kind of challenging very deep traditions in social democracy that way, but maybe we could actually get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2447	In my presentation and through this debate, I have tried to point out what we are doing now, both with the most acute challenges of child protection, where we prioritise more people in the first line in order to get past efforts, to be able to do something about the queues, to get supervisors and to stimulate more inter-municipal cooperation, which is one of the criteria that will be positively highlighted in the new earmarked scheme. I've explained how we are now, through more resources, trying to do something about the queues in the counties. I have explained how we are stepping up efforts to recruit enough foster homes, and how we will also be presenting new initiatives in a short time, both in terms of the review we have now had of child protection coerciveness, and in terms of the proposal previously announced, on the use of police attestations in child protection. Then I have also invited you to debate the long-term challenges. Then I would like to thank the representative Thommessen for a constructive contribution, because unlike the violent criticism I have received from the Right to initiate evaluations and investigations, I see this as a positive response to that challenge. That's exactly the questions he just mentioned, which I now want us to evaluate and investigate. I repeat that I and the government are going into that discussion without drawing any conclusions in advance. That means that all of the options are relevant. It's serious and sincere, and I think the debate at least has shown that there are some common problem descriptions that the position and opposition can meet, and where we now need a constructive climate in order to find the best solutions. I have said that we should go into the discussion on the principles of child protection, on the best of children, on the biological principle, that we should focus on the work to strengthen the child's own influence, that I want child protection with private ideal actors, and that I want to avoid the commercialisation of child protection. So someone has said that the government parties seem satisfied. I believe that both my statement and the debate today show the opposite. We're proud of what we're doing, because it's the greatest promise for child protection in a very long time, but we also recognise how demanding the challenges are, and we're impatient for more change for the benefit of the children. There is a clear ambition both from the government parties and in some constructive contributions from parts of the opposition. The change in child protection will continue, and we will continue to put vulnerable children and young people first. Then it is somewhat unclear to me how many representatives are going on a study trip to Åfjord, but I wish those who are leaving, good trip!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2460	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2463	I want to draw attention to the post that the representative of Breen had, and challenge us sea to set up child protection as the most important thing when we're going to the municipal election campaign for the autumn – that everyone does it. Child protection and the care of these families and these children is a municipal responsibility in the first line, therefore we strengthen it, and there should be a struggle between us – a positive struggle – about who is also at the local level following this best up. That's what this is all about. It's about the width of it, which Breen and others have been inside. There has been a debate here where it sounds as if the government has not intended to do anything more about child protection in the future. Then you can't have read the statement that was made, because that's where we say that on the basis of the facts we want to look at the whole system. The cuts that the opposition has made in Buffetat reminds us of the cuts the Advance Party did in Nav when they were at their worst – it was just as unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2470	First, I'm not going to Åfjord. That's it. If it is possible to ask representatives to think about how to talk – also the representative Karin Andersen: Focus on child protection, focus on institutions, focus on the collective. As if we could break it down and talk about the child, the individual. I know that it's incredibly difficult for SV to talk about the individual's rights, and you'd rather talk about the collective. But if you're really concerned about these kids, you have to focus on the kids, individually. This is not a group to be treated equally. So the government, state child protection, spends five billion dollars. kr. I don't know the sum in the municipalities, but there's also billions there. I have heard that a child protection child costs approx. One million. kr per year. Yes, I think there are a lot of people out there in private business, in cultural life, in the public sector -- yes, private people, who, through surrogacy, could have gotten an incredible amount of $1 million. kr. That's exactly what it is -- if we can channel these funds against the child. What do these children need? They need care, yes. But they need outlets for creativity and interests, they need attention, they need someone who listens to them. I think there are many small individual institutions around the whole country that can take care of it, as has actually been done in Denmark for 30 years, which have no child protection but which have something to do with it in 1997, 1998 and 1999. You have interest groups, individuals who want to take responsibility, a business that can take responsibility for a child protection child, so that the child can run out of creativity and primarily get to work with what the child is interested in. That's the way you have to attack it. Unfortunately, there is no institution. It's not in foster homes, but it's everywhere that I've mentioned right now. That's exactly what the Progress Party does: we don't cut, but we add up to 300 million. DKr, e.g. which may be used for the type of action. That's what I think the Council of States should take with it in the longer assessments of what we're going to do for the children, not for child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2479	The representative Håkon Haugli has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2482	I record that a general message of concern for the small municipalities has been produced as an attack on a single municipality. In general, this is not a single example. A statistical central agency report shows that the probability of child-restraint children completing secondary school within the age of 23 is increasing by the number of residents in the municipality. It's serious. Since it is now coming to the end of a long debate, we can agree that it is great that municipalities are now betting on child protection, and that it is always useful to study. I am delighted to visit Åfjord along with the representatives Gjul and Håbrek, the Council of State and everyone else who had to attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2491	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has also spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2494	In our work with the children in child protection, we meet many. I want to bring forward several of them that we get good input from, namely the Swedish Children's Protection Association, the Organisation for Private Child Protection Measures and the Change Factory. That is why I – that is not so much I can promise on behalf of the Right – from the Chair that every day we will challenge the red-greens and make proposals for improvements and new measures and ensure that the children are placed high on the agenda and that they are given attention. There has been a slightly special debate. If I should draw out someone, I think the representatives of the Christian People's Party have had nuanced and fine posts. Finally, because this is the last debate with the Council of State in a few months, I wish the Council of State good luck in its own paper mission, which is self-elected, and I hope he will sit on the couch with the baby and follow closely what we do in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2505	And I'm sure the whole Biggest thing can connect to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2508	I will be allowed to thank the representative of Hofstad Helleland for that. I took the floor – I had actually finished this debate for my part now – just to say one thing to the representative Per Sandberg: I think it is quite serious and quite sad that someone should put the question mark on my party's commitment to the children. We all disagree on different ideological paths to the same goal. We all may disagree on the basic principles of child protection, but I do not distrust the motives of political opponents. I believe in the commitment of the Progress Party to the children. Now we have heard twice before today from the Progress Party that SV is really for the state to raise the children, and that SV is more concerned with the institution than with the children. I wish the representative were too good at that, and met other political views with greater respect. I think I agree with the level of debate we should have in this Chamber, and the respect we should have for different views in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2516	The representative Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2519	If that's how the Council of State perceived me there that I was criticizing or mistrusting the Council of State's commitment to children, I think the Council of State is starting to get very hairy. What I said in my post, and I think that's very precise, is that the Progress Party is more concerned with the individual than the SV is, that SV is more concerned with thinking in collective terms than the Progress Party is, and I think I'm right about that. I record that the Council of State got three minutes to end the debate, but he did not take up any of the signals, the questions I asked in my post, about whether there is a thought for this Council of State and this government to think in other ways about who can take care of child protection children, other than institutions and foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2526	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 844]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2542	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 844]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2558	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 844]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2575	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 844]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2591	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 844]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2607	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 844]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2615	That's why the size is supposed to be moaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2623	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that, as appropriate, the boundaries of the police authorities of civil servants in the police action are clarified as compared to others who hold limited police authorities.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2642	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the impact of the investment on civil servants and, in connection with this evaluation, during the first half of 2011, to submit to the Stortinget a national strategy clarifying the current and future tasks of the police that should and can be carried out by civil servants.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better coordination of cross-police fishing in order to ensure better exploitation of the overall resources of the justice sector.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2682	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 2, from Anders B. Werp on behalf of Right Proposal No. 2. from the Right, in the course of the debate, is converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended to the Government that, in the context of the ongoing review of the distribution of responsibilities between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the police, it be assumed that the police will continue to be responsible for clarifying the identity of asylum seekers, thereby ensuring the same information as it is today.’; [[UDI]] The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own case for reorganisation in the foreign administration before further processes are continued.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2729	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. The proposal Nos will first be voted on. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget for the so-called performance reform based on the premises attached to the treatment of St.meld. [[2004-2005]] No 42 Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen police coverage up to Swedish level by 2020.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2755	There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 1, 4 and 5, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to conduct a wide-ranging police study on the model of the defence study in order to ensure proper dimensioning and resource use in the future. Police must be able to meet tomorrow's crime scene.' Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to return funds to the outbound operating budgets in order to prevent the dismissal of police officers already employed and to ensure that new trainees get a job.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a critical review of the role, mandates and powers of the Police Directorate with a view to increasing the professional governance of the police action.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2800	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary legislative amendments so as to allow the municipalities in the police regulations to introduce rules on registration obligations for sales or collection activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2817	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary legislative proposals to allow the municipalities in the police regulations to introduce more stringent rules on the expulsion of persons who are aggressive or annoyingly begging and selling.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2834	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national strategy to combat organised begging.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e2851	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in exercises where the reserve of police can be used to increase police force in Norway during periods of challenging manning.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3003	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3013	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3116	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3126	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3134	During the debate, Mr Kjernli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:153 S [[2009-2010]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3161	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on the situation in the field of child protection be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Voting in Case No 9-13
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3167	The size then goes to voting in the case no. 9-13. All of these cases are the second case of legal proceedings, i.e. ‘the proceedings’. If the assembly does not have much against it, the President will now conduct an overall discussion of these matters. So we're going to vote on these things together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comment on any of the legislative acts, from Act No 3 to Legislative Decision No 7. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at second reading, and all of them will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3305	Referral case No 95 is proposed to the Judicial Committee. Does the Per Sandberg representative want the floor? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3310	The proposal by the representatives of Eriksson, Höie, Skei Grande and Sandberg is, of course, a comprehensive one. It is a good thing that it has been proposed to the Judicial Committee, but I also ask that it be sent to the Labour and Social Committee and the Health and Care Committee for an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3315	If the representatives do not have strong objections to it, the President will propose that Report No. 95 shall be sent to the Judicial Committee, which shall submit its draft terms of reference to the Labour and Social Committee and to the Health and Care Committee for its opinion before final adoption. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-23.ana.ud95e3422	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
