ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e26	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Ingrid Heggø on leave from 24 March to 26 March and from the representative of Mr Øyvind Vaksdal on leave on 25 and 26 March both to attend the 122th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Bangkok On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, and for Sogn and Fjordane County, Sonja Edvardsen, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e60	Sonja Edvardsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e65	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Per-Kristian Foss, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal for a representative to introduce cumulation in large-scale elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e70	The representative, Mrs Solberg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e73	On behalf of Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I have the honour to make proposals for reinforced response to cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e78	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e81	On behalf of Per Arne Olsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Harald T. Nesvik, Robert Eriksson and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a separate ombudsmanship scheme for people with a developmental disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e108	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Lars Peder Breck and Rigmor Aasrud will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Torgair Tjäldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e117	I want to ask questions to the Council of State Breck. It's Easter soon, and the Nordics are jumping across Sweden's border to buy reasonable food. The daily retail trade in Sweden is cheering over Norwegian food prices, and all Swedish merchants report lower food prices during the year. In different meat products it is up to 50 pst. cheaper to shop in Sweden than in Norwegian shops. On top of it all, they have almost 20 pst. cheaper heads compared to ours, which makes it even cheaper to trade in Sweden. Border trade has now passed NOK 10 billion. In other words, there are 10,000 Norwegian jobs lost due to border trade. Swedish shops at Svinesund expect a historic increase during this year's Swedish trade. They say: We are getting ready for Norwegian invasion in Sweden. Statistical central agency has calculated that a Norwegian family of four saves over 30 000 – over 30 000 – Norwegian kronor each year to trade in Sweden versus Norway. Once upon a time, State Council Breck and others have a reasonable salary and can afford to go to the shops and choose from the top shelf. They can choose if they want a steak or if they want an inner file. But what about least retired Kari? What about children's parents around the Norwegian country who can't do that? What do we do with them? Why can't they go look at the top shelf for whatever food they want, instead of going to the Euro Shop – or what it is now – to afford to fill the refrigerators? Several central party summits have stood on this platform and in debates and said: we have not gone to the elections on cheaper food, we have gone to the elections on more expensive food. So my question is: When does the government of Stoltenberg intend to give Norwegian people food prices that are in line with our Nordic neighbouring countries, and to give young children's parents and minimum pensioners the opportunity to also choose a buffet dinner?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e130	Border trade is a phenomenon that exists at all borders between countries where differences in wage and price levels make it profitable to trade the goods cheaper on the other side of the border. It is such that Nordmänn border trades in Sweden, Swedes in Denmark, Danes in Germany, Germans in Poland, find in Estonia, etc. We see it everywhere where there are cost differences. I would like to stress that it is not that we can have a Norwegian salary level, a Norwegian cost level and a Bulgarian price level on food. It's not in the hope if we're going to see it that way. Eurostat, the EU Statistical Office, demonstrates that Norway has significantly higher price levels for most goods and services than the EU. It is uniquely linked to the level of wage and cost. According to the Technical Calculation Committee, for example: salary levels in Norway above 30 pst. higher than in Sweden, including indirect personnel costs. For the most typical cross-border goods, border trade is partly due to political decisions. It may be the result of levies and it may be the result of agricultural policy decisions. The policies we pursue must be consistently balanced in terms of cross-cutting considerations. In the last 12 months, food prices in national currency have increased by 1⁄2 pst. in Norway and 1,1 pst. in Sweden, while they are reduced by 2.1 pst. magazines in Denmark. Since the beginning of the international food crisis, price growth has been roughly the same in the three countries of Norway, Denmark and Sweden, while growth has been half the same in Sweden. Norway has 7.6 pst., Sweden 11.7 pst, and Denmark 7.9 pst. I think that if we want to, it's impossible to avoid border trade. There will be differences in wage and cost levels as long as there are differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e143	With all due respect, I don't think minimum pensioners or children's parents get any easier if you aim for Finland, Poland or Germany. When we go to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's own websites, we record that from 1 April they want to set up the sales tax on eggs. So you want to raise the egg price by 40 cents, and you want to do that because you have 2 100 tons in stock, so you have to set the price. The same government increases the price when it comes to stopping border trade, among other things. alcohol and tobacco. There is clearly a long way between life and learning for the Government. My question to the Council of State is, When is the Council of State going to give the Norwegian people cheaper eggs? Since it's on Thursday to introduce this – April 1st – is it an April joke, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e154	To underline a fact: in fact, in Norway we have higher taxes on alcohol and tobacco, goods that we have chosen to charge because they also have a health impact. This, of course, also leads to changes in the level of prices at the border. I do not want to ignore the fact that we should be able to use such instruments in Norway to influence the health situation. I think it is wrong to reduce taxes on tobacco and alcohol in order to meet the challenges of border trade. In the case of minimum pensioners: the times I've been on the border, I've seen a large proportion of the minimum pensioners, so I think the desire to benefit from the low prices at the border is relatively equally distributed. With regard to the turnover tax on eggs, this has a background in changes in the structure, changes in the level of investment and legislation relative to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e163	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e166	It's an important topic and an important matter The Progress Party is taking up here. One after another, the mall is established on the Swedish side. The last thing I know about now is 50 meters from the border of Trysil Municipality. There's a reason for this, of course. That doesn't help much, for example. in December last year, it was announced that the beef in Norway would go down by NOK 2 kg. There won't be any less border trade of this. This is a result of what has happened in the last four years with a socialist government and with a central government council. So, minus 4,419 farms, minus 141,000 crops. There are 36 000 empty farms, at the same time there are 400000 that can be expected to buy one. There are taxes, taxes and public intervention. It's predatory politics, and there's a lot of other things, like price regulation, etc., that make the desire to farm in Norway disappear, poor profitability, there's a fuss — a misguided policy. Then my simple question is, When will the Government and the Council change agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e177	From the point of view of the frontier trade challenge, the question that came here is a little further. I just want to stress that Norwegian agricultural policy is a counter-current policy. We provide opportunities for farming throughout the country. We have seen a decrease in the number of farms in operation, which was also underlined by the representative Bredvold, at approx. 4 400 farms in the last four years. It's significantly lower than it was in the period before. I don't think it's possible to put any glass bells over Norwegian agriculture. We will also see changes in agriculture in the future. In that it also means that we will see changes in the number of uses in operation. We are committed to an agricultural policy that meets the needs of Norwegian consumers and the Norwegian society has. This is carried out, inter alia: through the annual agricultural agreements which we now have before us in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e186	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e190	The increase in border trade may also be due to agricultural policy decisions, says the Council of State. That's absolutely right. In every agricultural settlement since 2005, commodity prices and consumer prices have increased, and thus border trade as well. The bill is sent to Norwegian taxpayers twice, both through prices and through subsidies. When will the Council of State begin to think of other instruments in this context — more freedom for the peasant, more right to dispose of his own property, more freedom from regulation, so that those instruments can also be tested? When former farmer leader Bjarne Undheim resigns from the cooperative in protest against regulations that are not adapted to the business, do not any bells call the council?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e199	A central element of Norwegian agricultural and food policy is the protection of imports. The protection of imports is there to ensure the possibility of agriculture throughout the country, in order to ensure Norwegian food production. Of course, within the framework of import protection, we use the opportunities offered by the Norwegian market to secure income for the Norwegian farmer. This is done either through increased price withdrawals — which have been used to some extent in recent years, as in the past. It may be through budgetary decisions – we have also used them – and we have also used fiscal decisions. These are the annual agricultural agreements on the basis of which decisions are taken. The fact that we have a higher price level of food and other products in Norway is a consequence of both the agricultural policy decisions we have taken, and of course also that we have a strange wage and price level. I just have to stress again that it is not possible to have a separate low price level in Norway and at the same time pay salaries that are much higher than in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e204	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e207	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of the Environment recently presented its priorities for EEA impact in 2010. There the department writes, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘A prerequisite for participating and influencing the design of EU legislation is to clarify EEA relevance and develop national positions in a timely manner. However, we must recognise that in areas where there is considerable disagreement with other departments, it has been difficult to pursue an active influence policy. [[such as climate and energy, marine environment policy]] [[...]] These developments contribute to weakening the established channels of influence such as participation in the Commission’s expert groups and the written involvement of national positions in the decision-making process.’;» Such an open admission of disagreement within the Government and the adverse effects of this disagreement are very rare on ministerial websites. It only confirms the impression that we are many who have, of the so-called active European policy of the Government. As responsible for the coordination of EEA work in the Government, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think can be done to prevent slow decision-making processes and internal disagreement in the Government from weakening our impact on the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e223	Firstly, I believe that Norway is quite well placed with other countries in terms of internal coordination processes, clarifications of national positions. I don't have data on it, but I'm going to assume, with experience from other areas, that our ability to see things in the context between departments and disciplines is pretty good, and that makes us have clear positions. For example, we have among the highest levels of implementation of EU directives, which say something about that ability. It is not surprising that a country has different professional assessments around e.g. the implementation of environmental measures. Environmental and climate work is taking place in all sectors and is to be clarified. The recognition on the Ministry of the Environment's website seems to me to be a normal reflection – not primarily of political disagreement within the Government, but because the balance of views on directives relating to the environment, energy and climate affects the entire economy. It is clear that from an impact perspective, having a fully clear position early, important. If you have that day one, it's optimal. But also on the Norwegian side, as in the EU countries, it takes time to clarify what is a common position, where we can reconcile interests related to the environment, climate, work, well-being, etc. It is not unnatural that this is also happening in Norway. So we're going to have to do it in addition to our influence work, from a position where we don't participate in the organs. It sets its own requirements for the channels we use, and the way we work against them. I believe that in the environmental field we have many good examples of our success, because we have had agreed positions, and because we are actually being listened to in that area in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e234	In many other countries, coordination of their EEA and EU policies is quite different from that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, the Swedes have: a Minister of Europe who is associated with the Government Office, i.e. the Office of the Norwegian Prime Minister, SMK. When one sees how dissatisfied today's government partners are obviously with coordination in-house, could it be an idea, since the government is holding on to its own Minister of Coordination at the SMK, to let this Minister of Coordination also coordinate EU and EEA policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e239	The President must only draw attention to the fact that the Storting has not been informed that a Minister for Coordination has been appointed. There is no such title – on the contrary, I would stress that it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e242	By extension, this question could have gone to the real Minister of Coordination, the Prime Minister, for how he organizes the work of the Government, is the prime minister's responsibility. I have – and I have good ears – not noticed criticism from other members of the government regarding the U.D. coordination role. I think it works well both at the level of office and at the political level. When it comes to how other countries organise themselves, I think it's a difference of substance, as I know the representative Eriksen Soreide has brought with him, namely whether you're an EU member or not. If Norway were an EU member, I think it would raise a whole new question about how to coordinate our positions, because we were part of a decision-making system that is quite different from what we have in Norway. Our tradition that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is head of the EU Coordination Committee, I believe, has worked well. As I said, I haven't picked up that there's any criticism from other departments against the U.D. on how that role is solved. I believe that throughout, we benefit from clear positions on what is Norway's position, both in the formal and informal processes in which we participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e251	There are three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e254	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Norway is doing quite well compared to other countries in resolving political issues. Here we are talking about two of the most important issues for the nation, where we see two departments fighting each other, under the management and treatment of climate issues – two ministries run by state councils where both are defined EEA opponents. My question is whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs also concludes that government colleagues who are opposed to the whole EEA Agreement feel far from the same need as he himself when it comes to the rapid follow-up of such matters. I can quote from the Ministry of the Environment's website just to document this: ‘In the climate area, much of the time has gone by to reach agreement between the ministries on EEA relevance and then to negotiate with the Commission on whether or not. adaptation texts for inclusion in the EEA Agreement, after the completion of the EU decision-making process.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e264	I assume that ‘histories by the light of day’ is a parliamentary concept, if I can use it. I mean, that's what the representative here sees. ‘Sealed against each other’ – it is therefore the case in a government that we have departments of trade which are responsible for professional considerations on different sides. Everyone knows that climate and environment affect all sectors of society. There has to be another coordination process. It will be the Minister of Energy, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs' job in such a context, regardless of the government, to contribute with their perspectives towards clarification. In the case of renewable energy, we have clarified that it is EEA-relevant. But I'm the first to say that it's essential to consider how Norway is going to adapt to it, Norway as the country in Europe with the highest renewable share in the economy, over 65 pst. is from renewable energy. How we do it correctly, which is cost-effective and targeted, is not a fight. It is a professional and political discussion that should take place in order for a government to take a responsible decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e274	It is likely that the term ‘sprays by daylight’ may pass, especially when carried out in such a diplomatic manner. Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e279	I'm going to hang on to what's about disagreement in government circles. The fact that different batches have different approaches when there is multi-party rule is not necessarily problematic. But in some questions, I think the need for coordination and signals is greater than in others, and some issues are more sensitive. One of them is the participation of Norwegian military forces in Afghanistan. We are aware that the Taliban is deliberately seeking to attack forces from countries where there is strong opposition or immortality in political leadership. Despite this, the SV parliamentary leader, who participates in important government conferences, now chooses to ask Norwegian forces to leave Afghanistan. So my question is, shouldn't the time for adult education of SV in security and foreign policy now be over?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e286	Adult training is a useful exercise, and I think we're all in it when we're doing government work. You're going to do that with an open and positive look. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, I think the picture that the representative is drawing is wrong. The picture that emerges from outside Norwegian Afghanistan policy is that we are among the countries that have the widest political consensus on its presence. The debate in Stortinget for a time clarified a broad consensus on the main lines of that policy. I was in Afghanistan right after and could also see – in discussions with other NATO partners, in contact with the Afghan authorities – that Norway in this context really stands out by a very, very broad consensus. We can refer here to the Netherlands, which is now going to have elections because of the collapse of a assembly government because of Afghanistan's policy. I also believe that, in such a difficult and demanding question, we should live with the fact that there will be voices asking questions about strategy and direction. What there can be no doubt about is the government's position. It is anchored in a broad majority in Stortinget. The Afghans know that, and so do the Allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e293	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e296	I'm going back to the follow-up to the main question, and it's about the influence of Norway in Brussels. There is disagreement about much in this Chamber, but there is broad consensus, yes it is unanimous, that the Stortinget wants a representation in Brussels, in order, like the parliaments of a number of other countries, to influence the European Parliament in matters where Norway has clear and unambiguous interests. On the basis of this unanimity in Stortinget, I am somewhat surprised that, according to the VG on 6 March, a meeting has taken place here in the house where the Minister of Foreign Affairs – and he is referred to in the VG, so I quote – makes a fundamental point that «the design of Norwegian foreign policy is the responsibility of the government.» I don't think anyone in this room is in any doubt about what the Constitution says about the government's responsibility for foreign policy. But the fact that this is a foreign minister's theme makes me have to ask him from this pulpit: Is the Foreign Minister concerned that the Stortinget is pursuing foreign policy on its own behalf, almost in some form of private practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e305	Now the leader of the Christian People's Party is not going to get an answer to the VG's first page on important politics. I'm going to take it here, directly: No, the Foreign Minister is not worried about it. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs thanked the President for the invitation, and the framework and premises for such presence in Brussels were to be discussed. It was a positive invitation, because the prime minister, as I perceived it, together with the Presidency, had to do this in the right way not to raise questions about a fundamental relationship in our state law, that the Government has a prerogative in foreign policy that must, of course, be anchored in the United Kingdom. It was a good meeting. It was a clarifying meeting. I would like to congratulate the representative of the Secretariat of the Grand Duchy who is to represent and facilitate the visit to Brussels. I think it was a very useful exercise with the Presidency that we went through those questions, those border crossings, and everyone who attended that meeting, I mean, that's what I saw. It will of course be very distant for me to have any view of how Stortinget organizes its work. But I think the president took a good initiative, where we settled some of these questions, and where I answered the questions I got in that meeting, directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e314	We move on to the next main question, which also comes from Dagfinn Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e317	I was already on it. But now I come to the main question. It also goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so he can stay standing. It wasn't all the parts of the Soria Moria Declaration that the Christian People's Party was just as excited about when it came. But one of the points we were very excited about, and that's the point that says the government will focus more on contributing to peacekeeping operations in the United Nations, and where Africa was specifically mentioned. It was worked a long time to get to a UN force in Sudan. Unfortunately, that did not work. On the other hand, it was possible to realise a force in Chad with a focus on the Darfur conflict. Norway has contributed a field hospital and a well drilling team for one year. Now that period is about to go out, and initially the Christian People's Party believes it's okay then to stick to the original assumption of withdrawing when the period is over. But a new situation has arisen. There has been an insistent call from the Secretary-General of the United Nations to the Norwegian Government to extend the mission, and there is evidence that there is a risk that the entire operation will become obsolete if this important field hospital – which has otherwise been, as I can see, a successful operation from the Norwegian side – is withdrawn. My question is what is the reason for this, because there have been different reasons in the press, partly economically, and partly that it has not been practicable to recruit strengths. But then conflicting information has come up to it again, that it has actually not been asked. Strong reactions have come from the foreign minister's own local party and several other counties in the Norwegian Labour Party, from Jan Egeland in the Newspaper today and from the SV parliamentary leader. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government, in the light of the criticisms that have arisen and the new information that has emerged, reconsider the question of Norway's participation in that force?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e328	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Christian People's Party supports the fact that this government has led an active policy to get into the UN, as opposed to the declining trend that was before. We have been with MTBs in Lebanon since 2006. We planned the big operation in Sudan, spent a lot of money and trained people, but didn't go because of the dictator there. We're taking part with fifty staff officers around the corner, and we've had the military hospital standing by. It's a complex question because the situation in Chad is complex. At present, negotiations are ongoing on the mandate to be extended at all in May. This is something that the United Nations is working on these days. But the short version is this: In the autumn, the first experiments were on the question of prolongation. Then it was in the cards that Russia should take responsibility for a field hospital. After a Norwegian assessment, we found that it was a logical sequence. Norway signed up with a field hospital for one year and water drilling. These are people we've recruited from the Norwegian health service, trained and sent there according to plan. In the case of recruitment, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. But as I get this done, the UN Secretary-General's enquiry into the Prime Minister's instructions has made a thorough assessment of whether it is possible to follow it up. The head of defense has been very clear that he advises against this at this point, and that we have come so far from May that questions are asked about the possibility of recruiting enough people qualified and trained for this. Those who draw parallels to Afghanistan are wrong at one point. Because what we're talking about here, recruitment, is people in the civil health community on contracts, and they're being trained. It has been the Minister of Defense's assessment, which I have supported, that with the clear recommendations of the Chief of Defence, which I have every reason to believe have studied this with a deep desire to see if anything can be done, we have come to grips with the original plan for when we finish the mission. It is also important in view of the coming rainy season, and in view of the equipment we have in Chad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e341	Let me first say that I appreciate the fact that Foreign Minister Gahr Støre continued the good work that Foreign Minister Petersen and the Bondevik II government had started when it came to a United Nations force in Africa. Secondly, I must say that I am very little satisfied with the foreign minister's reply here today. I probably share that with large parts of his own party and other government parties. The reason is that there is doubt as to whether it would have been in Norway's power to do anything about that situation. There are doubts as to whether Norway has been active in relation to other countries, such as Norway. in the case of contemplating different forms of overlap and cooperation on the further operation of this field hospital. With the answer that has now been given, the government says fairly in cash that you do not intend to try to get this carried forward. Then the government must also take a great deal of responsibility if this UN operation is to be done. I don't think that dresses either Foreign Minister Gahr Støre or Government in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e348	I can't on the standing foot here go well for the claim that the entire operation is in danger because of this hospital. He may have to document it more thoroughly before I can deal with it. We're going to do everything we can to assist the United Nations. State Secretary Barth Eide has been to Chad and is coming home now. He's assessed the situation that's there. What we can do to facilitate transitions, adaptations, the United Nations knows that we will always do. But there is a false impression that Norway in some ways does not follow up on the UN here. We've set up with a very demanding commitment to Chad, based on recruited personnel, trained personnel, and we've stretched the resources as far as it's right. And when the head of the department, the head of defense, makes such a clear recommendation, I understand that the Minister of Defence has joined it. We have a continuing commitment to the UN. We're also going to have it in relation to Chad, where, as said, the entire future of the operation is for discussion. When the Chad operation is over, it's about planning for the next UN operation, which is going to need support in Africa in many areas other than Chad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e358	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e361	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. But I want to go a little bit further. Basically, it's okay that we've been saying that we're going to be in Chad for a year, and that we're going to pull ourselves out. But the signals that have come, which are given, are quite dramatic. Because as the representative of the Højbrätten was in, there are several other countries who have warned that if the hospital is not there, they will consider withdrawing their forces. This means that the consequences of the failure of the field hospital may be that the entire operation is at risk. When Norway was asked again by the United Nations, and one was asked to stay longer, the first message was that one didn't have the economy for it. When one did not succeed with other countries and came back to Norway, it was announced that one had no strengths and no time to recruit. But the forces that are in Chad haven't even been asked, one could at least have assessed them. So it seems to me that the Government has concluded in advance, and then find another kind of argument to hide behind to avoid admitting that one is failing Africa, that one is failing Chad, and that one is breaking the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e370	Does the representative Robstad believe that the government wants to fail the UN, fail Chad and fail Africa? These are serious claims. I would say, as the representative Højbräten said, that we have informed Stortinget in the past that this operation is scheduled to end. That's what Stortinget's been nodding to. The discussions in the autumn, if possible, were one chapter. We've nodded to it. The UN has worked on other alternatives to the hospital. The assessment made by the Defence Sanitation and the Defence Chief on the question of whether it was possible to recommend an extension has concluded by those Heads of State that they do not recommend it. Then, as I said, I understand that the Minister for Defence has drawn the conclusion that she is following that Council. I would strongly reject the underlying claim here that the Government has come to the conclusion that Africa is failing, Chad is failing and the UN is failing. On the contrary, this government has shown the ability and the will to do the opposite, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e381	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e384	This is an interesting debate. It is well raised beyond doubt that the government holds the UN flag very high. Of course, there is a need for that to be appropriate and sensible. What is sad, however, is that you are about to withdraw from a project that has been very successful, after the feedback that has come. What surprises me a little bit is that you're so absolute on your withdrawal. The challenge for the foreign minister is whether a model of cooperation could have been found here, where Norway, for example, has been found. took the management of the management, but entered into cooperation with other nations to complete the other functions collectively, so that the hospital could be cared for and operated further. It would have somehow shown that Norway was concerned about finding a solution, it would have taken care of our reputation as a UN support, and not least it would have taken care of the focus on continuing what has been a success in Chad so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e391	First, I am pleased that the Progress Party is now expressing itself positively about the UN in Africa. I do not remember how explicit the support for the hospital in Chad in its time was, but it is very positive that it is now made clear. These are aspects of the question that I must almost leave to the Minister of Defence and the Chief of Defence to answer. It is such that the rainy season stands at the door. It provides quite heavy guidance on how to take care of equipment, how to plan people. But, as I said, the Chief of Defense's response to us has been that with regard to extending the mission with this hospital, it has to be up to the level necessary to ensure its role – the UN has burned on it in critical cases earlier, where it has been understaffed in relation to what is a mission – and has made demands for what is needed to operate hospitals according to Norwegian standards, he has come to the conclusion that he has very clearly refused to do so. I then assume that he has also assessed intermediate options etc. We're going to continue the dialogue with the UN. As I said, the State Secretary has now been in Chad to get an impression, and we will do what we can to help within the possibilities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e398	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e401	From the Right we record that the contribution in Chad ends in May according to what has been the assumption and plan all along. But the Foreign Minister says in his reply that one of the things that can now happen is planning for further UN operations. We've discussed this before; recently the Foreign Minister and I discussed it in Political Quarter yesterday morning. The question is what kind of concrete operations it is now possible to participate with Norwegian contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e406	I can't go into it in detail. It's not an immediate plan. Now we have to go back and rehabilitate the project we've been in. The reason for concern is that UN operations in Africa are at risk — not because of a lack of personnel, but because of the political situation in the countries where they are. It is not unknown that the President of Chad wants the United Nations forces out. There is concern about the status of the UN forces in Sudan, we have experienced that directly when we tried to contribute. There have also been ominous signals that President Kabila in Congo wants the UN out. These are things we're going to engage in politics in New York. We're going to engage in the training of UN soldiers, get them upgraded, so we can have good recruitment, but also a professional level to be able to participate in operations. I believe that there is now a major political challenge ahead of us to ensure the legitimacy and presence of the United Nations, from Security Council resolutions and to follow-up in the field in Africa. Then we'll assess which operations it is appropriate for Norway to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e415	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e418	I want to ask a question to the Council of State Aasrud. It has recently stormed at its worst, i.e. around the physical location of the new pressure position in the Church. Political parties, individuals from different parties and newspapers have presented their opinions on a continuous basis. The debate has sometimes been so harsh that some have simply resigned from the debate and will no longer participate in it. The Church's own bodies have decided by a large majority that the position should be added to Oslo. At the same time, there is a process that intends to separate state and church, the so-called church settlement. This agreement is based on the assumption that democratic processes should be initiated. The Church, by holding church elections at the same time as political elections are held, and by conducting direct elections of candidates to the Socene Councils, has fulfilled its part of the democratic process. The councils have also announced that she will bring her own case on strengthening church democracy. The question to the Council of State becomes whether she believes that the debate currently taking place is suitable for strengthening church democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e430	I also register a great interest in the creation of a twelfth bishop, a president, in the media, and it is right that the representative says that there are many contacts with the ministry, and there is an active debate. I choose to view it as a force for the Church of People. It shows that people are concerned with church questions, and have opinions about what are church questions. I think we should take a positive view of that. It is right, as the representative also says, that we should go into a work of separating state and church to a greater extent than has been the case, and thereby develop democratic bodies in the Church. During this period this hall and this government are authorized to make the decisions necessary for the life of the Church. I will present a big message that deals with the creation of a twelfth bishop. I think it's important that we focus there on the tasks to be solved by the twelfth bishop, and what matters the twelfth bishop is going to engage in. So it's right that there's a big commitment to localization. I have also registered that there is a majority in the Church meeting to locate a new position in Oslo. But then I have also registered that there is a significant minority who want to add the position to Trondheim, and through the enquiries I get to my office, it is enough that they, most people, have sympathy with what is the minority decision in the Church Meeting. The government will discuss the matter, and we will present a big message in a short time. Then I will come back to what recommendations we make in the matter, and then of course Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e441	I record what the minister says, and then I want to add that often those who have failed are the ones who protest most in retrospect. But the process of democracy has already begun, and democratic processes mean that those involved on both sides must give and take. The Church has fulfilled in terms of conciliation and democratic elections. The three top church bodies have gone in to place pressure in Oslo, and the strengthening of church democracy was and is an important premise in the church settlement. Then I am a little surprised that there is so much emphasis on what comes later, because this has been a continuous and thorough process. There is no clear minority that has gone in to add the pressure position to Trondheim. Then my question becomes: Has the Council considered whether a possible overrun of the Church's own decision on the location of presidents is a violation of the church settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e448	The church agreement does not deal with the establishment of the twelfth bishop's office; it is not part of the church settlement. That is why, in principle, I believe that we, the government and the magnificence, have full power of decision in this Chamber. If it was not intended that this room should receive a message to discuss it, it would have already been clear that the matter would be transferred to church organs. So I think it's important to listen to the Church's organs. But there was a significant minority when the matter was dealt with in the Church meeting, and I also think it is quite legitimate to be able to hear what the minority believes in the matter. I have not concluded in the matter, and I am in a situation where I listen to many people. I had a meeting with the Bishop's meeting yesterday and I think I got useful input there, which I take with me in my further work when I'm going to make a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e455	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Torkil Åmland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e458	I guess it's a bit of a special opinion you have of a church democracy when it's the minority that's supposed to rule and not the majority, as it usually is in democracies. But now the Church has been very clear in this matter and feels overrun. In the discussion that has at least been held in the media, the Bishops' Meeting, Olav Skewesland, says, among other things. ‘politicians arbitrarily take the lead in managing and organizing the church’, while the leader of the Council of Churches says that this is a ‘power demonstration’, ‘immaturely unwise, yes hair-tracing’. These are strong words when it comes from the Church. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that the Church itself should be competent to solve these kinds of questions in a good and unifying way after a thorough process, or does the Council of State think that this is better resolved by a political horse trade in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e467	It surprises me a little bit that people are concerned that there is interest in church questions. The fact that there's a debate about church issues, I actually think it's good. I think that shows that people are concerned about the Church and about church questions. I think that is actually a debate we should welcome and not be concerned about. So I believe, as I said in my previous answer, that it is government and big business that has the authority to make a decision in this matter. I think it is legitimate that people are allowed to present their views and views on this matter. I'm taking that with me, I'm sure the other members of the government will take it with them, and I'm sure the Storting will take it with them when they're going to deal with the potion message. I believe it is right that it is government and big business to decide that matter, but of course you should listen to what the Church's bodies have to say about the matter. Then I also want us to pay attention to the content of the matter. I think that's as important as the geographic location.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e476	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e479	When the Council of State met the Church meeting when she was appointed as a new minister of the church, she was directly asked what she was thinking, and whether she would follow up a little of what we had seen from the previous minister's suggestions, namely to overrun. Then she had a very nice answer, and said that she would listen to the Church and what the Church itself needed, and how the Church itself wanted to do this. I hope that I still do, and I have not intended to believe that the Council of State has concluded in advance in this matter. But I also want to ask – and there are some of the assessments that now underlie whether the Government should go in: is it wise in the first matter we are going to deal with after the church settlement and have a cross-political agreement on increased democracy and increased autonomy, to overrun the Church? It is also true that although the authority is here, pressure has been chosen by and among the bishops. So it will be to go beyond the government and greatness has done before, if you impose a pressure on the Church somewhere it itself does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e486	As I have said, I am busy listening and hearing, and therefore I have had a meeting with the Church Meeting, as the representative Eriksen says, I have met with the representatives of the Council of Churches and I have had a meeting with the College of Bishops – at the latest yesterday. I think it's useful to form a picture of what's the situation and get good input. So I believe, as I have said, that it is perfectly legitimate for the Government to make the choices we want to make in this matter, and whether it is wise or not, it will show time. I think what's important in this case is to discuss the content, what pressure should be on the job, and that we meet the bishops about the need for relief in the role of pressure. I think maybe the geographical debate has got a lot of attention in the media. But it's, as I say, a result of people being concerned about the Church, and I think we should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e493	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e496	The evening post reported yesterday that the decision of Storting that nine central health records should be made inaccessible to unauthorised persons through coding, also called encryption, has not been followed up, except in a few cases – i.e. mostly ignored by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. State Council Stroem-Erichsen was quoted as saying that this was something that came in during the Storting's handling of the matter, understood that it was not so important to comply. Now this has clear privacy considerations, which we have the specialist councils for here today, namely Rigmor Aasrud, and then you can see on the website of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church that they present themselves as responsible for privacy. Among other things, I can quote from what they write: ‘Personal protection is about the right to have your privacy in peace The investment in IT makes it more important to maintain privacy. [[...]] [[...]] The Government attaches great importance to identifying procedures and practical solutions that both take into account privacy considerations. [[...]] These are excellent wordings, but my question to the Council of State is: What has the Council of State, which is responsible for the follow-up to the Privacy Policy of the Government and the Stortinge, actually done to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in order to ensure the proper processing of patient information in our healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e509	As far as health records are concerned, there is a question for which the Minister of Health Ström-Erichsen has the constitutional responsibility. My department is responsible for the Data Protection Agency, which is an active interaction partner with the different departments when new registers are drawn up. I am sure that there has been a contact between the Swedish Data Protection Agency and the Ministry of Health and the underlying agencies once the health records mentioned here have been developed. The Data Protection Authority also has an obligation to monitor how the underlying establishments in the different other departments follow up the individual elements on which it is decided. In addition to that, there is a completely normal procedure from my department regarding the registers being established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e516	I allow myself to interpret the answer to that, that the Council of State has not felt the need to follow up a concrete failure to comply with a decision on the size of the population – a decision on the size of the population, which is just about to improve the protection of patient information, even if it can be said that it is located within another department. Experience has shown that departmental departments and sectoral interests are not the main champions of privacy, which are often looted and embezzled for them. That is why it is so important that the Government has equipped itself with a government council that has personal and constitutional responsibility for privacy. I am a little concerned about the reference to the Data Protection Agency, because they carry out random checks – from 50 to 100 a year – and are not designed at all for a comprehensive policy follow-up, for example. in the State. It'll almost be like comparing and referring to the aviation safety of the community as almost just the responsibility of the Disaster Commission. Air safety needs to be ensured far more preventively than that. My question is now: does the Council not see that there is a need for her to review the compliance of the departments with good wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e528	I agree that it is important that we have respect for privacy in the various parts of central government. I think in many ways we are now facing a situation where privacy is being challenged, because there are a lot of societal reasons that suggest that we get more types of registers. That's why it's important that we get through my department early when laws are designed, and get good practice on how to follow up privacy. It is therefore the responsibility of each State Council to ensure that its own activities are in line with the Storting decision, and to follow it up. Then we have the Data Protection Agency, which does the necessary sampling, and we follow up in a way that makes us have a control body that can check that things are being followed up, within the framework that the Data Protection Authority has at its disposal. I believe that this is the constitutionally correct way to follow up that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e535	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e538	Governments have no reason to feel confident that there has been a contact between the Ministry of Health and the Data Protection Authority. The Internal Encryption Act came into force in May 2007. The Ministry of Health first contacted the Data Protection Authority in 2008 – informally. State Councillor Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen pronounced on 27 January this year «Health in Development»: ‘If we are to achieve quality improvement, we need to have records that enable us to link information and research knowledge that can bring healthcare forward.’ And... ‘I would never forgive anyone if privacy were to prevent the possibility of getting the right treatment of the best quality.’ My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State share the ideological approach of the Minister of Health to privacy, namely that there is no absolute limit to privacy as long as the deterioration of privacy can lead to better health research?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e555	I agree that there are demanding balances that need to be made between privacy and e.g.. the establishment of health records. Societal developments are, fortunately, in the direction that we benefit from having many registers linked to, for example: health, so that we can provide patients with better treatment, so that we can check that the treatments we give work, and that we can eventually see and learn from everything we haven't been able to do. I believe it is important that we have good health records, but of course privacy needs to be a leader. We need to take heavy privacy considerations into account in the establishment and exercise of the health records we have, so that we ensure that information is not compromised. But at the same time, we also need to be able to use information to ensure that patients receive proper treatment. It is a balance that must always be made in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e562	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e565	As was said here, two days ago we dealt with a case of new heart and heart records, and the case of the EU Data Storage Directive is on the steps. We all understand that some specialist councils want good electronic disciplines for better treatment, research, etc. But there is one Council of States that is actually responsible for individual rights and integrity, and that is the Council of State Aasrud, as she is responsible for privacy. I cannot see that the Council of State has lifted a single finger or said a single word about privacy since she was given that responsibility. The question then is whether the Council of State cares about privacy, or whether she can tell us what she intends to do. Now we hear she's pointing at the Data Protection Agency. But when we dealt with the matter of the heart and the registry, her own batch traps put emphasis on the meat weight of the hearing bodies. The fact that the Data Protection Authority had been skeptical was downplayed for the benefit of those who had expressed a positive opinion about the register. When shall the Council of State stand up for privacy and for the rights of individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e570	Data protection and data protection is an important task for my department. I have focused on privacy issues, and I have worked a lot with the Data Protection Authority to help that, for example. individuals who experience infringing information on the Internet can find good solutions. In the ministry's work on hearings and in the government's work in this area, we ensure that privacy considerations are respected. We're making sense of it through ongoing work. It's, as I say, very difficult and demanding balances that are made, and we do those balances every day. We have an active role to play with the other departments, which mainly design laws that affect privacy. I would also like to say that one of the reasons why we are now delayed with a new public postal file, is precisely the protection of privacy. I want to make sure we have good routines before we launch it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e577	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e580	I think I have to be even clearer. In the debate on health records on Monday, the Minister of Health and Government stressed that the system they are now putting up to ensure privacy, so-called encryption, is safe and sound. They considered that the data subject’s consent was therefore not necessary. According to a letter from the Ministry of Health, which actually came to Stortinget yesterday after the debate was over, the Minister of Health said that this good system is not in place. The Data Protection Authority has also said that the choice of a model for the Health Registry does not adequately respect privacy. Will the Council of State responsible for data protection accept the launch of the new health record before a secure solution to privacy is in place, and will it accept that the rolling registers that we have – those that are already going without security – continue, even without consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e590	I am not familiar with the letter that came to Stortinget from the Minister of Health yesterday, so I cannot comment in detail. I ask you to understand that. I should rather be allowed to come back to that. I agree that good safety practices are important. I have seen that the Minister of Health has been concerned about having good safety practices for the health records that are being established and that strong leadership is being put in place to achieve that safety. But the specific letter and the specific enquiry that came to Stortinget after the matter was debated in this room, I do not have an overview of it, and I must be allowed to come back to Davøy afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e597	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e600	The state councils could actually have stayed standing. We have now had a government that has had a Minister of Renewal for five years. I fully agree that the public sector needs renewal. If we are to keep our welfare state, it needs to evolve and change. There is a high level of competence for disciplines to be strengthened and quality requirements in the public sector. At the same time, we see that 200 municipalities in Norway are less than our largest settlement team. The centre party points out that they believe that the municipal reform will lead to ‘a huge centralisation’ and a lower supply to users. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa says, "But we know that it's going to be more expensive, it's going to be less expensive, and it's going to be more distant with a community merger." And Navarsete says, "Communal merger is going to be a solution to everything." At the same time, we see that there is an ideological fight against private solutions, both in the area of child protection and drug addiction. Today, we see that Lundtägen is going to renew by putting on oil money, while SV's Lighthouse is going to say to the Evening Post about what is going on in terms of public sector renewal: ‘Increased influence on employees and increased public budgets are the two main steps towards the renewal of the public sector in the next SV period’.» My question to the person responsible for this renewal is: Has there really been any renewal from this government, on the initiative of this government in the last five years – and is it even possible to agree on a great deal of action in terms of renewal, with the composition that this government has?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e614	There has been a lot of renewal in the public sector lately. 700 measures have been reported in a renewal report that we presented in the previous ageing period. When we ask employees in the public sector, it turns out that more government employees than private sector employees have been exposed to changes and organisational changes. So there's a lot going on in the public sector in the area of renewal. So renewal is about far more than just structural changes. I am engaged in – and responsible for – ICT policy in the Government. I believe that there is a lot of good innovation about using new working methods and using ICT more actively in administration than we have done. We can prove that it gives savings, and it has helped us to get better services for the individual. In the case of community mergers, I record that many people are concerned about it and discuss it. I have faith that many municipalities will find practical solutions for closer cooperation in the future, but I am also very uncertain about the use of coercion, as others would like, will have some effects. I believe that it must come from below, that the municipalities can see that they are working together in practical solutions, and that this is the way we can get more municipalities to work together. The interaction reform, which the Minister of Health has presented, and which is currently being worked on in Stortingen, will make the municipalities more likely to work together. The Minister of Justice is now working on a major police performance reform, which will also help us to go through and see if we have organised ourselves in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e623	I really don't doubt that many public servants have been reorganized, but the question is whether you've got better services and the renewal that you really need in the public sector. Within the responsibilities of the Councils of State, this includes, inter alia: created a new Directorate for Management and ICT. We in the left are kind of wondering what the results are really going to be of that. Former State Council of Grande Røys presented a target of 25 p.m. all public procurement was to be carried out by electronic means by 2009. Now, the year after, we see that only 2 pst., not 25 pst., of all public procurement – that's 250 billion kroner it's about – happens according to the government's goal, sail if you've spent a lot of energy building an e-commerce platform. So is the state at all able to carry out such promises under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e630	It is true that we have great ambitions on behalf of the public sector, and fortunately it is that the inhabitants of Norway are very satisfied with the public sector. It shows the large Integrating Survey that my department had conducted very recently. Surprisingly, some people feel that the public sector is producing such good results. Then there are many tasks we work with from the state to get more ICT solutions, including: in electronic commerce and e-invoices. From 1 July 2010 the Council of State stated the wrong year; it should be 2011. All state enterprises should receive invoices by electronic means. But it's a big job, because we have to have ICT systems that play together. Therefore, the decision to use open standards in all public enterprises is a very important decision in order to obtain IT solutions that work together. We depend on that in order to move on to make even more public services work electronically. It will also help to increase the number of public procurement on electronic platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e640	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e643	The government has just had a budgetary conference, and we have seen through countless leaks in the media that all the proposals for cuts that the Government is now signaling will affect the individual citizen or business. My question is whether the Aasrud Government Council has given advice to its government colleagues to perhaps start with themselves – starting with government cuts and the public sector, which over time will lead to better services for the inhabitants, more reasonable services for the inhabitants and more efficient services for the inhabitants. It should be an objective not to increase the size of the public sector but to make it better and more efficient. So far, it has not been possible to get an eye on a single proposal from various government councils that is about to sweep at your own door before you hit ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e650	I record that the representative Jensen says that it is not an objective to increase public expenditure. I agree with that. We're going to need to make the public sector grow a little less in the future. Therefore, it is important that we make the best possible use of resources available to the public. That's why my department has started work on monitoring the use of resources in public activities, where we go through and look at how we make use of public resources, through a project called StatRes. I have great faith that it will help us to see which parts of government have potential for improvement, and that will allow us to get more out of the money we put into the different parts of the public sector. It will be a great job, which we will spend a lot of time following up on in the future, and which will be visible in the future state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e657	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e660	Governments have not only started such work. After all, she has also received a report from the UiO and the Frischsenter, which shows that there is considerable amount to save by improving efficiency in the public sector. You can save thousands of years in the police, colleges and universities, and it's billions to save in the hospital. One would think that this was the food for a government that is desperately looking for increased income for its future budgets. But after this report came, it has become remarkably quiet. After all these recommendations that have come to the Council of State today to do something: can she say something about how quickly this work will begin, because the advice is unambiguously clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e668	Yes, it is true that the Frischsenter has analysed the StatRes results that we have now collected from public sector enterprises, and they show that there are significant differences in the cost of some enterprises. The report says nothing about the quality, it just says something about the use of money. So I think it's important that we supplement that report with the population surveys we're doing, so that we can see money use and quality in the context. The government has already begun to make changes in the three main areas mentioned in the report. This is the case in the health sector, where the Interaction Reform is intended to contribute to the most appropriate use of health funds. The Minister of Higher Education has started work on higher education, and the Minister of Justice is in the process of making major changes in the police through the police performance reform. There are several areas that are focused, and of course we will follow that up, and it will be visible in the documents presented by the Government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e675	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e678	The efficiency of the public sector is important, but I am also concerned about what renewal of the public sector can have an impact on the private sector and not least on private business. In this discussion about the renewal of the public sector, I cannot help but deal with a matter that concerns the form and reporting system that affects several thousand small enterprises. 80 pst. of Norwegian enterprises have fewer than five employees, and this form is particularly problematic for entrepreneurs. The Christian People's Party wants a simplified system here – a simpler Norway – and with faith and hope that the Council of State agrees with much of this, I would like to ask: What kind of initiative has she taken, if any, will she take to achieve such simplification, as I know that small and medium-sized enterprises would very much like to welcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e685	Simplification work related to traders is a work that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has high on his agenda, but also within the area of responsibility that I have, we have many tasks that address the same topic. The figures that we have obtained from the East show, among other things: that if you deliver a VAT task manually, the transaction costs for it are nine times as high as if you deliver it electronically. That's why a main focus in my work is to get more electronic solutions where you can enter information once, and then it will be the system that retrieves information from a base so that you don't report the same information in multiple places. We are in the process of further developing Altin, which has been a good tool for private businesses, and this will mean that we will have even more solutions put in under Altin. This will help entrepreneurs to experience simplification in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e690	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e696	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Knowledge, is answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge, who has been removed. Question 8, from the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Erna Solberg to the Minister for Health and Welfare, is answered by the Minister for Labour on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away. Question 10, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, which is also to be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 11, from the representative Bente Stein Mathisen to the Minister for Justice, is answered by the Minister for Labour on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has been removed. Question 13, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister of Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e718	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e721	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Annually, about 10000 students receive grants for the purchase of PCs and necessary software due to read and write difficulties. In the 2010 budget, the subsidy rates are reduced by NOK 2600 for all, resulting in significant excesses in the purchase of PCs. Does the Council of State think this is consistent with the principle of free schooling, and what will the Council of State do to ensure access to free facilities for children with different learning difficulties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e735	After the training law § 2-15 and § 3-1, the students have the right to free public training in the main school and further training. This means that it is the municipality and county municipality as the school owners who are to bear the expenses. This is important in order to give all the elephants the opportunity to receive initial training, regardless of whether they set up their economy. The training shall be adapted to the abilities and instructions of the individual student. Any person who does not have, or cannot receive, satisfactory exchange of the regular training provision is entitled to special education. Special education shall contain such content as to enable the pooling of training provision to provide students with a defensive exchange of training. The school owner shall be responsible for placing the equipment in consultation areas necessary for the defence of the training of pupils, whether special or regular training. In relation to the right to free training, a distinction is made between educational aids, educational tools and equipment that students are responsible for offering free of charge to students and other technical aids and equipment that are not specifically related to the training and for which school owners are not responsible. However, the borderline between the equipment under the responsibility of the school owner and the technical means for which the Auxiliary Resources Agency may be responsible cannot prevent children from accessing the equipment they need without regard to their parents’ financial interests. The question refers to the backlog of ordinary data equipment in the population. The system applies mainly to the standard PC for elephants with difficulty in reading and writing. After 1 August 2007, the county council is required to hold elephants during further training with the necessary digital learning materials and equipment. The system of advances through popularly-scrupulous people is therefore primarily applicable to school pupils before they come to the secondary school. In most cases, relatively simple text processing IT equipment is needed. In the case of multi-purpose equipment and visually impaired elephants in need of more advanced and specially adapted equipment, the equipment is proposed to be borrowed from the Auxiliary Centre. SSB numbers show that the PC density of the population is generally now approaching 90 pst. In households with children, he's even taller. As a natural consequence of the fact that the standard PC has been largely all-round, the propensity of the people's fear has been gradually reduced. The amount is now at a level that normally does not cover the full cost of purchasing a PC. I would like to stress that the Training Act is clear that municipalities cannot demand that the costs of basic schooling are covered by the costs incurred by the pupils or parents. In a case where the purchase of a PC is required as a result of the completion of elementary school training at a school, the cost of this purchase may not be borne by parents. Finally, I would like to point out that the issue raised by the representative is one of several questions that the Tool Selection team, which has been set up by the Government, has been asked to look at. The selection shall be completed before the end of April 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e750	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that this concerns very many – ten thousand students, there are actually 400 school classes if there are 25 students in each class. We know that access to the PC, not only as word processing equipment, but also in mathematics and other subjects, is important for the school to provide a good learning outcomes for those students who are struggling with difficulties. It makes PC an important tool. The new rates from 2010 are for a laptop PC NOK 5 950 and for a desktop PC NOK 4 450. At the same time, we know that software should be covered within that price. It shall cover the carrying bag and the PC shall last for four years. That means you might not want to buy the very cheapest PC. What I'm asking is on what basis the new rates are set, and if the government council can actually assure the Storting that every kid who really needs a PC gets a PC.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e759	As I did in my main response, those who need such equipment – then I am thinking about the more disabled and visually impaired people who need more advanced and specially adapted equipment – will get to borrow equipment from the Emergency Centre. That group of representatives is busy, students with different types of learning difficulties who obviously also have a need, but who do not need such special equipment. We also have to include in the calculations, as I said, that the vast majority of families today have PC equipment in the household. On that basis, the backlog of the people has been gradually reduced. There's something that can't seem completely unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e764	I think it is quite irrelevant to show that most households have a PC. I know students who have a PC that they use. It takes them back and forth to school, and it has a content that definitely does not match what you might have on a home PC. So I kind of think it's gone. You have to make sure that the students who need access to this type of tool actually get it in the future. The majority and the Government have been concerned that students are free to pay their own allowances, for example: when they're going to camp school. They shouldn't be allowed to do that at all, but here you're adding up a PC system where you can't be sure that there won't be an additional bill in the entry for your parents. I still wonder, as I said, how these rates are set, if there is only a balancing of the line in the budget that incidentally makes the rates become like they are. I have great doubts as to whether it is actually possible to obtain a good student PC for the prices that the Riksstrøgdeverket and Nav are willing to refund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e771	It is also an undeniable fact that the prices of technology and technical equipment have fallen considerably in recent times, and that it is possible today to obtain a PC for a very different and lower amount than one could only be for a few years. I cannot go into detail on how the amount is calculated, I ask for an understanding of it, as I am not a specialist council member and therefore have not had the opportunity to go into those calculations. But just by being a general observer of the countless leaflets that come every week, you can see that getting a PC out of it can be called the normal standard, can do for a relatively reasonable amount of money. I would like to remind you again that the Tool Selection, which has been appointed by the Government, and will present its work now in ours, will discuss this, and I am absolutely sure that they will also look at both the pricing and the need to possibly strengthen this post further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e781	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «In the newspaper on 18 March this year, there is an article showing that more and more municipalities are becoming debt slaves. According to the SSB, the municipalities' total debt at the end of January this year was NOK 260 billion, an increase of DKK 28 billion in one year. The situation of municipalities is expected to worsen in the years to come, inter alia as a result of developments in the international economy and national constraints. How does the Council of State assess the financial situation of municipalities, and what action will it take to improve this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e790	The local government sector's debt has increased in recent years. However, higher debt is not the same as the poorer economy. Indebtedness reflects the high level of investment that municipalities and county councils have had in recent years. Investments go to new sick homes, more care homes, new schools and road upgrades, i.e. a small investment to provide better well-being for people throughout the country. Figures from the Statistical Central Bureau for Domestic Gross Debt show that the local government sector had a total debt of approximately NOK 260 billion at the end of January this year. However, this number does not clearly express the burden of local government debt in a good way. Most of the debt is related to conditions that do not, or only partially, burden the local economy. The government covers the interest payable on loans before the compensation schemes for schools and church buildings. Before self-regulated areas such as water, sewerage and renovation, interest and rebate are covered by the fee paid by the inhabitants. Some of the loans to the local government sector are passed on to individuals and companies, and the local government sector still has some of the accumulated borrowings on its own accounts. In addition, over the last few years, the local government sector has experienced a strong growth in income, making it better able to deal with a higher level of debt. The number of municipalities and municipalities in economic imbalances is also at a low level. As of March 2010, 51 municipalities are listed in ROBEK. The corresponding figure at the end of 2005 was 88 municipalities. It is the municipality and the county that, on the basis of their own financial resources, have to assess the level of indebtedness they can handle. Municipalities and county councils also need to increase in order for interest rates to rise in the future. The local government sector has received a monthly increase in income in recent years, which has made it possible to raise borrowings. Despite the fact that a somewhat tighter fiscal policy is needed in the future, the Government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration in the forthcoming State budgets, will contribute to further growth in the income of the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e803	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt, however, that there are many municipalities that are struggling with large debts. It is shown in the headline in the Newspaper, among others. to the municipality of Austevoll in Hordaland, which – paradoxically – is on the ROBEK list due to large deficits, but in the municipality there are large companies in farming, fishing and offshore, and there is 10th place in terms of the country’s highest household income. After the loss of corporation tax, the municipality has a loss of at least 10 million. NOK per year, and there is a lot of money for a small municipality. With the income from corporate tax, the municipality would probably quickly be out of the ROBEK list. In 2009, municipal corporation tax was completely abolished. It is a paradox that municipalities with large power resources can get large revenues from it, while municipalities with other types of resources do not enjoy their income. My question is: Will the Council of State consider, as a measure here, the reintroducing of the scheme in which the municipalities receive part of the corporate tax at least, so that the municipalities can have a greater share in the values created in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e812	The liquidation of the corporation tax was due to the fact that a desired equal distribution of income and a less non-performing income entry into the local government sector was less favourable than that which the corporation tax provided. Of course, it was heavily dependent on the profits of those companies from which a company had tax revenues, and which we have seen not least in the last year, they may vary significantly. The municipal sector, which is to finance the most important well-being we have in our society in terms of health, care for the elderly, kindergarten and school, must have good income, and it is important that these incomes do not vary considerably from one year to another. If it would be appropriate to review the company tax again, my colleague in the Ministry of Finance will answer – that is not my area. But per year. Today, there is no theme to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e817	I want to take a slightly different side of this as well. There have been many reforms that have cost municipalities dearly. One example is the kindergarten reform, which has been expensive for many municipalities, and where there has also been a lack of funding from the state. Does the Government and the Council have any overview of the proportion of this debt due to underfunded reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e824	The municipal sector, after the red-green government came to power, has had a completely different income development than he had the previous years, when it was barely covered up for demography. For several years, demography was not covered, so one was forced to cut services around the country. We have had a different situation, a larger increase in income, and we have also had reforms to which the municipalities have been good, and have done a good job of introducing, not least within kindergartens. There will always be a discussion – I think I will almost always say, because it has been the case with changing governments backwards – about the extent to which the different reforms are fully funded or not. I have a very clear objective as a municipal minister that municipalities should have good conditions and that the tasks they are given should be fully financed. So the kind of overview that the representative is asking for does not exist, but it is not that I believe that the local government sector is underfunded. It has been a significant growth in free means in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e834	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: «Recently, Tibet’s spiritual leader Dalai Lama met U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington, D.C. for strong protests from Chinese authorities. How do Norwegian authorities contribute to the creation of a mutually acceptable solution to the issue of Tibet both within and outside the Norwegian-Chinese dialogue and to the safeguarding of fundamental human rights and real autonomy for the Tibetans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e843	Norway has always argued that Chinese authorities need to resolve issues related to the position of Chinese minorities in a peaceful manner and through dialogue. With regard to the situation in Tibet, several issues have not been addressed by the parties — the Chinese authorities and the Dalai Lama — for a long time. Unfortunately, there is still a great deal of distance and crucial issues that remain to be resolved, such as what real autonomy for Tibetans really means. The Norwegian authorities welcome the resumption of the dialogue between the Chinese authorities and the representatives of the Dalai Lama. We hope that the parties can progress on the core issues and fundamental issues such as the protection of Tibetan religion, culture and peculiarity, as well as the clarification of the role of the Dalai Lama. For Norway, it is about contributing both in the short and long term to contacts, conversations and increased understanding between the parties. Tibet-related issues are what we are constantly discussing in our conversations with the Chinese authorities. We closely follow the situation in Tibet, and our main message is that the Norwegian government is concerned with the rights of minorities in general and the situation of Tibet in particular. We also deal with specific events and individual matters when this is the case, either alone or with other countries. Among other things, we followed the situation both during and after the violent riots in Lhasa in March 2008. We have on several occasions taken away from the Chinese authorities the fact that the court settlement after the riots resulted in death sentences and executions. In addition, the Norwegian Embassy in Beijing carries out regular service claims to Tibet, and visited Lhasa by December last year to get a first impression of the situation in the area. As the representative mentions, we have the annual human rights dialogue with China, which also provides an opportunity to address issues related to the situation in Tibet. That's what we're going to use. One of the four working groups under the dialogue, bringing together Chinese and Norwegian experts, covers minority rights in particular. In addition, issues related to minority rights and Tibet are raised in separate meetings between Norwegian and Chinese authorities, which take place during the dialogue. Another source of information exchange on Tibet and minority rights is the field visits organised in connection with the dialogue. In 2008, then State Secretary Raymond Johansen headed a Norwegian delegation to Tibet in advance of the Beijing meetings. This gave us the opportunity for direct dialogue with local authorities in Tibet. The delegation took part in the following meetings: issues of religious freedom. During Chinese visits to Norway in the context of the human rights dialogue, we also address relevant issues. In connection with last year's dialogue, we invited the Chinese delegation to Finland to look at our autonomy model in Sami areas. This provided the group with relevant information on, inter alia: linguistic and minority rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e864	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and informative answer, and I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that the issue of Tibet needs to be resolved. The Chinese authorities claim that the human rights of Tibetan Tibetans are fully respected, while Tibetans testify that even the most fundamental human rights, such as freedom of expression, freedom of information, freedom of religion and legal certainty, are in no way respected in Tibet. Such a situation now emerges, it seems essential and imperative that the situation of Tibetans in Tibet be documented as soon as possible. This should be done by one or more independent third parties. My questions are: Will the Council of State take the initiative to send independent observers to Tibet to identify the real situation, possibly to seek cooperation with the authorities of other countries or other appropriate institutions? And what does the Council of State actually think about doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e873	I think I would say quite frankly that we do not, in one and all, put our trust in the stories of the Chinese authorities about the conduct of minorities. We've seen too often that it's not right, and we need to have a critical external look at it. The proposal for the representative Raja I get to think a little bit more about, but let me say that what we do through our delegation visits is to get first-hand impressions. I realize that it too has shortcomings, because the program there can be organized by the Chinese authorities, in cooperation with them, which restricts some of the free and independent information that is natural in such a situation. Our principle view is that there should be access to international visits to Tibet, that is. normal freedom of travel. I think that through a sum of such travels, and also through the Tibetan environment, we actually have quite good information and coverage in terms of minority rights, formally and informally, to be able to deal with Chinese authorities both in direct political processes and in other processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e882	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I do not know if it is a parliamentary expression, but I am glad that the Council of State does not take all that China says too well. Yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that some people use the name G2 about the United States and China. In the question, I am concerned with the fact that China strongly protested when Barack Obama invited the Dalai Lama to the United States. Given the economic and military power of China, I would like to ask the Council of State what extent and with what strength Norway is committed to violations of human rights in China, from death penalty issues, repression of minorities, the absence of freedom of expression and the lack of democracy. So, how far can Norway go in seeking changes to these challenges before it damages Norway’s relationship with China? And in the extension of this: in conversations with the United States, does Norway exercise the necessary pressure so that, in the interests of its own nation, the United States does not fail to confront, or, as it has been expressed, does it not plague China with regard to human rights issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e891	The President does not think ‘good fish’ is particularly parliamentary, but lets it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e894	Our principle view is that universal human rights should be respected; it is a universal matter. We've developed a robust dialogue with China that makes me very poised to say that we are open, direct and confronting in the areas where we are critical of the Chinese authorities' compliance with universal human rights. Then we have found that the right strategy is to establish our relationship with China on several legs, so that we have a broad bilateral relationship to rely on when we present that kind of criticism. In a debate here in the Chamber a few weeks ago, we had a thorough debate on the impact of the human rights dialogue, and I think it was then widely agreed that the human rights dialogues give us a pretext to address that kind of question. Let me also say that Norway does not want us to be frightened by land — if never so great — from having clear opinions about universal human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e901	The Foreign Minister will now be allowed to go from China and human rights to the wolf in Hedmark. – The size goes to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e907	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e910	I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is moving to new areas, asking the following questions, which were really to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘For months, the management has been running its game. They were unable to get hold of Galven-Tispa, despite track-snow and extensive use of all available aids, including helicopters. Finally, the council promised that it would be opened to shoot the beep if it was not caught within the following weekend. Within a few hours, the tispa was stunned and moved. Locally, it is wondered whether there have been real attempts to capture tispa in the past or whether there have been ‘games for the gallery’. How does the Council of State view this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e919	Let me first say that everything is related to everything, as we know. And these are also issues with clear contact with my field of interest: we are talking here about cross-border movements, in this context of the wolf, which even comes with genes and spirits from Russia. So we have a north-eastern perspective that interests the foreign minister. The extent of damage in the area where Galven-tispa was present during the 2009 grazing season was regrettable, and it has always been the intention that the wolf should have been removed from the area before the season of the year. As the Minister for the Environment and Development recently stated in reply to written questions from the representative of Gundersen, Galven-tispa is a genetically important wolf. Since the Scandinavian wolf population has for a long time been characterised by inbreeding, it was desirable to take measures to ensure that both the Scandinavian wolf population and the grazing user are taken into account. Since the summer of 2009, several attempts have been made to move and mark Galven-tispa. Despite varying and sometimes very difficult tracking conditions, the state’s nature oversight has made a great effort to stun the wolf for moving and marking. The fact that the Galven-tispa is a particularly cloudy wolf, and therefore has largely been in dense forest, has helped to further complicate the branding and removal tests. To stun a wolf, you must, as you know, be very close to this one. For animal ethical reasons, the traceability of Galven-tispa has not been as intensive all along. Persistent tracking affects the wolf’s ability to eat and rest, and prior to the last movement tests, it was assessed whether a new test was appropriate for the wolf’s sake. In the light of a professional assessment carried out by the State Department of Nature in consultation with the responsible veterinarian, it was decided that a last relocating attempt should be carried out. Mildness and better availability are the main reasons why the experiment finally worked out. The government is pleased that the effort has finally led, and that we have now succeeded in moving and marking the wolf. We find it very regrettable if it is locally questioned that previous branding and removal attempts have been real. It has been openness since last summer around the government's efforts to get branded and moved Galven-Tispa.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e932	I thank you for your answer. There are a lot of temporary motives and good explanations about why you don't get what you want. I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be familiar with his specialty as well. But there is no doubt that there is still a local impression that there is an environmental management that has largely played with all the tools that local people refuse to be away at all – so helicopters, snowmobiles and quadruples have been widely used. It's very unfortunate. The impression remains that there is a government without governance — and a local population without trust and influence on the situation. That is basically what I hope the Foreign Minister can bring back to his colleague, that we cannot do that if we are to have a credible administration that also has local trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e941	As I said, it has been important to find the balance between caring for the wolf tribe and caring for the legitimate concerns of grazing users. I can only say that on behalf of the Government we have confidence that the administration here has acted with the degree of professionalism necessary for this strenuous work of tracing, tracing, stunning and moving a wolf. And then we're going to do what we can to build the trust that is obviously necessary. It is regrettable that it does not exist between the local population and the authorities set up to carry out this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e946	So I dispute that you've done what you can do in the past, and I would strongly stress that there's a total lack of trust between the administration and the local population in what's going on. I think that's important for the government to take along, because in such a field, you have to find political solutions that allow you to play with the local population. There is an awful lot left to do on the environmental side, and I would suggest that you go through whether the administration actually follows up the Storting's intentions and decisions. Here you need a completely different political governance of an area that is very sensitive out there. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs takes it with him to his colleague, I am pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e951	I can confirm that I will of course take it with me. I just want to stress again that for the entire government it is important that it is trust with the authorities that are set to manage this highly sensitive topic. We believe – and the professional authorities believe – that the demanding work needed to get this animal stunned and moved finally succeeded. And that's all the result that matters. But I take with me the unrest that the representative Gundersen has conveyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e956	The size then goes back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e963	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The military part of the Museum of Flight in Bodø is subject to an economic requirement due to an over-consumption that has occurred on a national basis and not in Bodø. For the current year the amount is NOK 110 000, according to my information. The museum has planned to get rid of some of the planes even though they have historical value. A collection is now being started to avoid this. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the museum should cover a deficit it has not itself created, and is the Council of State in favour of a local initiative to raise funds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e972	The defence museums shall primarily preserve the military cultural heritage while strengthening the identity of the defence and communicating the function and societal importance of the defence. The defence museums have an important role as cultural carriers, both within the defence sector and towards society. In last year's big news about the cultural activities of the Defense Department, the Government also highlighted the great importance of our seven defence museums. The policy of this good and important communication is, of course, firm. I am concerned that we manage the Community's resources in a good and sound manner, which of course also applies to the cultural activities of the defence. Last year, the budget chapter for the cultural activities of the Defence had a significant increase in consumption. It is up to the Defence Manager to deal with such challenges in line with current budgetary procedures. In the process of balancing the economy, it is normal practice that activities that have exceeded the appropriations must also cover the exceedances. This implies that the additional consumption must be covered within the same budget chapter. The Chief of Defence is working to find the most appropriate measures. The measures relating to the Museums of Defence are aimed at protecting the outsourced public activities as far as possible. The Defence Manager states that among the measures he considers to balance within the budget chapter for the cultural activities of the Defence is to terminate the lease for a hangar that currently contains five historical aeroplanes. These are measures that are in line with the objectives adopted in the conversion of Defence to reduce the amount of property that costs a lot and requires a lot of maintenance. Just because I'm concerned about the culture of Defense, I'm also concerned that we run the defence economy in a good and proper way that carries it in the long term. In this important work, I have full confidence that the head of defence will find the necessary measures to balance the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e985	That was an interesting answer – I think I'll start there. I perceived it so that the Council of State did not respond to any of the things I asked. So she's been explaining the background to historical facts, where you're going, but she hasn't answered my question at all. My primary question is: why should a museum that does not have an excess pay for excess consumption that others have had? Because according to my information, there has been no over-consumption in Bodø. The second is the hangar you per. definition in which case the lease must be terminated. But it's a fact that Defence Building is the owner of it, and someone else in the Defense has to pay the same rent. So you're moving it from one post to another, but you're still moving it inside the defense. It is possible that it is reasonable and logical, even though I struggle to see the logic of it. And I think it is particularly unreasonable when the same museum has not been a contributor to the extra consumption. It affects what the Minister of Defence underlined in the introduction: the cultural heritage. So you consider getting rid of some of it -- call it -- the historical heritage you have from the cold war, because you're in an economic dilemma. Is the Minister of Defence comfortable with the challenges that Bodø has faced, in the light of others' additional consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e996	It is tempting to start with the foreign minister's words to the previous one asking that everything be related to everything, because here, unfortunately, there has been an exceedance in the budget chapter reserved for cultural purposes, and we need to find a solution that means both that we set ambition in relation to the resources available and that we find measures that bring us back to the framework budget set up, as quickly as possible. This means that current measures are also being taken to address the situation that has arisen in our museums and, among other things, to address it. also relates to measures related to Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1001	I agree that budgetary discipline is an exercise that most people will observe, and it will significantly reduce the debate in this Chamber, in that case. Two concrete questions. In my first question, I also asked about the views of the Council of State on civil contributions. If you have a local effort because you think it's so important to take care of the museum, will the Council of State be positive about it? The second is, can the Council of State assure me that this is not a hidden agenda to create a new battle against the existence of the Museum of Aviation in Bodø? So it's been a fight that's been going on for many years, the winner has been in a deep state, but you've made a formidable effort and, in my view, you've set up one of Norway's finest museums, with a military and a civilian part. I look forward to getting an assurance that this is not a hidden agenda, where there are other motives than what are the obvious today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1008	I can assure you that there is no hidden agenda here. On the contrary, efforts are being made to identify measures to balance the chapter for cultural purposes as quickly as possible. I have therefore also gone through the questioner's proposal carefully, and I also know from previous function as Minister of Justice that, in this situation, unfortunately, we have to find the measures ourselves within our own budgetary framework. Such a solution is proposed here with e.g.: receipt of the funds collected is not the case. That we are therefore working on finding solutions within our own budget framework is also something I have to confirm.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1016	The question is as follows: ‘Information has been provided that the Eikås tunnel on the E39 past Vikaleity in Åsane Town in Bergen may be stopped or delayed due to EU rules. The 600-metre tunnel was to be completed during 2011 and offloaded a very dangerous road map. The tunnel shall be assessed against the EU directive on the safety approval of tunnels. There is a traffic volume of around 18 000 in the day which causes the EU directive with a limit of 12 000 to enter. This requirement came in 2006. How will the Council of State ensure that the Eikå tunnel is built?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1025	Under the Tunnel Safety Regulation of 15 May 2007, tunnels which will enter into an annual traffic of more than 20 000 running gear during a 15-year period are required to have two running lanes in each direction. Norwegian road standards require the construction of two races if annual traffic rises to 12,000 vehicles over a 20-year period. The EU Directive applies to the trans-European road network of which the E39 is part, while the tunnel safety regulation applies to the whole national road network. The Eikås tunnel regulation plan does not meet the requirements of this Code. Statens vägvesen Region west has applied to the Road Directorate for deviations from the current requirements in order to build a tunnel that has a lower standard than the requirements of the Code. The Directorate of Road recently rejected this application on the basis of the current security requirements of the Directive and that any non-compliance cannot be made without the ESA’s approval. The E39 Vågsbotn – Hylkke project is an important road safety project. It is a project with a long history. The Eikå tunnel is highly desirable by both local and regional authorities and not least by residents along the current road. I want to evaluate all aspects of this matter, including the relationship with the Nyborg tunnel before finally deciding to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1034	Thanks for the answer. It is good that the Council of State will at least consider the matter. It's true, as the Council of State says, that the Eikå tunnel is important. It has been on municipal, county councils and, to some extent, on state priority lists for almost 20 years. I am aware that recent statements have been made by the county council that the Eikå tunnel must now be realised. It is also known through today's edition of Bergen's Official Journal that the City Council in Bergen has sent letters to the Council of State asking for exactly the same thing. I understand from the answer that this is partly based on national legislation, but also on EU legislation. Let me make it clear: the tunnel is 580 meters long, i.e. 80 meters longer than the regulations and EU legislation mention. Is it the case that the Norwegian authorities do not have action rooms within the framework of 80 metres?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1043	I am now in a situation where I am defending a directive that we should very much have avoided, in conjunction with very many other directives. When I say that I want to look at all sides of this case, it also includes the Road Directorate's assessment and their rejection, and also on what basis and based on what experience they have given this rejection, including that this is an 80-metre-long tunnel. In addition, it includes that I want to have contact with both county and local authorities in this matter, and both discussed two races and looked at the connection with the Nyborg tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1052	I thank you again for the answer, which I still see as positive. I ask the Council of State to agree that there are many EU directives that we should have liked to have been ahead of us. There I agree with the Council of State. But I'm also concerned that we don't practice them squarely. I'm concerned that we're using the space of action that actually exists, and I'm asking the Council of State to focus on the 80 meters. It must be possible for national authority to have action spaces within 80 metres. I also ask the State Council to take into account that, as I have at least been informed, the State Road Service, together with the rescue services, has carried out a risk assessment of the project as it is now available, and found that the safety is adequately ensured. In addition, we have several existing tunnels in the Bergen area that have an annual traffic of well over 12,000, and they work and are used daily. It would be paradoxical to stop new tunnels when you allow old ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1059	It is probably with the background of this local assessment from the State Road Administration that one has applied for a derogation. Compared to other tunnels, it is a fact that this 2007 regulation says that existing tunnels and new tunnels may differ. I'll take with me Sortevik's advice not to practice the regulations of the squares. Let me stress, however, that it is probably demanding for a government council to review the Road Directorate for Security, but there is also something we should discuss more closely. This security issue is particularly relevant when it comes to this tunnel, also because there is a lot of dangerous cargo from Mongstad that passes. But we're going to take an extra round to check out all of the sides of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1067	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the newspaper Oostlanden of 16 March 2010, we can read about the great frustration of the sole proprietor over the lack of departures and signs at Braskereidfoss in Hedmark. This applies to many out in the districts. Can the Council of State provide a solution which may benefit both road safety and the possibility of operating in the districts, inter alia in that place?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1076	The Norwegian road network is such that many activities are not visible from the main roads, even if the distance from the activity is short. Road 20 in Hedmark, which has several crossings and exits, such as the two-plane crossing on Braskereidfoss, is such a road route. I have been informed by the State Road Administration that, based on traffic conditions and road safety, there are no plans to rebuild this section now. Service signs and works signs are of great value to local businesses and tourism. Clients and visitors shall also be able to identify enterprises and activities which are not similar to the main road network. However, public roadside signs do not have the primary purpose of marketing businesses, but should facilitate their identification. Some activities are important to many road users, and road traffic control authorities approve and set up many signs for businesses and businesses every year. This applies, inter alia, to: refuelling stations. The state road authority has informed us that they know only the case of the Braskereid petrol station from the media. I have been assured that the local county department in Hedmark will now contact the owner of the service station with a proposal for a solution when it comes to a sign along the river. 20 from the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1087	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I interpret it as a positive response as it is now to be contacted. I hope it's a little bit because of this question and the newspaper tricks that have been. Because it's clear there's a lot of frustration if you're on the 'wrong' side of a road and people don't have the opportunity to get there. It's clear that a gas station is important to the road users. This is not just about transportation. It's about industrial policy, that those who run an industry should have the opportunity to run it, even if you're on the wrong side of the road. It is about district policy – that people can live and live in the districts – and it is, of course, about transport policy. Not least it's about security. So the solutions you find must be good. I am a little surprised that it is only now that Vegvesenet has heard about this, because according to the information I have, this matter has been going on for several decades. But I won't blame anyone for taking so long, if anything happens now. And as I understand what the Council of State is now saying, something will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1096	The answer is yes. Something's going to happen. I would like to add that the Eastlander's presentation of this case is a reminder that it is indeed important to show liberality when it comes to divorce regulations. It's the way Norway is so often. Some places are one of the activities associated with a main road. Other places can be several. But there's a need here, as part of this, to find out, at times, just to get information about the industry. So I'm happy with this. I also think Bredvold should be happy that there's going to be a solution here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1103	I'm not going to ask any more questions, but just say that I'm very pleased with the answer to the Council of State. It's not always me, but this time I am. I hope it will be a quick solution for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1111	I have a question to the Minister for Transport about a topic that has been discussed earlier today: ‘The development of the Eikå tunnel is now moving out of time because the Ministry of Transport will review the plans again, after rejection in the EU. As you know, the Eikå tunnel is a very important road project for Bergen. The Nyborg tunnel, which is part of the Nordhordland package, is planned in the same area, which will have consequences for traffic volumes through the Eikå tunnel when it is realised. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that these projects are viewed in a coherent way, so that the Eikå tunnel can be realised as soon as possible, without costly new requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1120	Let me introductoryly stress that this matter has not been dealt with in the EU system, as the questioner says. As I have done well in my answer to Question 5, from the representative Arne Sortevik, the Directorate of Road recently rejected a request for derogation from the current requirement to build a tunnel with a lower standard than the requirements of the legislation. This is due to the requirements of the Regulation on minimum safety requirements for certain road tunnels. Annual traffic on the route is currently around 18 000 vehicles, and calculations have been made to show that annual traffic in the Eikås tunnel can increase to about 22 000 vehicles in the pre-opening period of the Nyborg tunnel. The National Transport Plan 2010–2019 considered that priority should be given to public funds for the project E39 Nyborg–Klauvaneset for the last six years, with the commitment to a partial toll financing scheme for the project. The final priorities after 2013 will be through work on the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023. The project is part of the concept evaluation that is currently being prepared for the Bergen region. The project E39 Vågsbotn-Hylke is, as I also said in my reply to the representative Sortevik, an important road safety project. It is a project with a long history. The Eikå tunnel is very much appreciated by both local and regional authorities, and not least by the inhabitants along the way of the day. I want to evaluate all aspects of this matter, including the relationship with the Nyborg tunnel, before finally deciding to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1131	I thank you for your answer. I'm going to try to stick to issues that the Council of State and previous questions weren't about, but they're important. These are the prerequisites for such an EU directive, and those that go on separate lanes, as they are called. There is no requirement for two lanes and therefore four lanes. This is an important clarification, which I think the Council of State should make use of in its efforts to get through to exercise sensible judgement. It is also the case that, in the case of the Nordhordlands package, it is expected that approved regulatory plans will be adopted in 2011 and possible construction start in 2012 and 2013, and perhaps completion in 2016. We're really just talking about a four-year time window, which you should have the opportunity to dispense with. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1140	For this with separate fields: It is a good idea here to consider how to design them in this case and what the costs will be when running two. But there is something I want to take with me in the work that is now to be done. Then to the North Hordland package. I have tried to find out myself – in a short time – when he is finished locally. So I have to stick to a project that is now in its first period, and also to a project that is considered after the revision of the national transport plan. But there's something I'm going to come back to. We'll see these projects in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1147	Thanks for the answer. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Council of State for its willingness to try and find a solution. At least here she has full support from the Right. The traffic conditions for soft road users are not at present unproblematic, nor will it be much easier to go from four to two fields on both sides of the tunnel. In addition, today we have a traffic across the North Hordland Bridge of 15 000 vehicles per day, of total traffic on the respective 18 000. That means there's going to be a traffic loss of almost three quarters in four years. So instead of focusing on dealing with a traffic figure from a 20-year perspective, you might have to process here that you actually get a significant loss of traffic from a 20-year perspective – and you get a safer road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1154	It's not least the history of this project that makes me go the rounds that I need to look at what solution we can find. I've heard that there's a story back to 1992. So there is a start-up commitment in the 2009 budget, but then with an uncertain cost estimate of 200 million. kr. For traffic forecasts, there may be some different calculations here. Here we are talking about the development of the area north of the Eikå tunnel, with calculations that may also mean that there is a lot of traffic after the opening of the Nyborg tunnel. However, the concerns of the local population – and not least of the soft road users – require us to evaluate all aspects of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1171	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1177	This question, from the representative of Erna Solberg to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister of Labour on behalf of the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1180	I have the honour to ask the Minister of Labour, on behalf of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the following questions: ‘Women who have removed the breast from the breast due to cancer or cancer risk and who want to reconstruct with their own tissues experience waiting times of up to four years. As a result, a private offer to reconstruct breasts has now been made using their own tissues. This creates a clear class distinction in cancer treatment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that women waiting for this type of operation can quickly get an offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1189	The government aims to reduce social health inequalities. Everyone shall have an equivalent provision of healthcare. The duration of reconstruction after breast cancer surgery varies. In a recent report from regional health companies, one year's waiting time is reported in Health North and Health Mid-Norway, 6-15 months in Health West and beyond three years in Health South-East. The regional health establishments draw attention in their feedback to the fact that patients who have undergone radiation therapy should wait one year before surgery can be performed because the skin must be allowed time to normalise after radiation therapy. The law on patient rights and the regulation on the prioritisation of healthcare should help patients who need the most to get to proper health care as quickly as possible. The Directorate for Health is developing guidance for the assignment of rights and the setting of deadlines within 30 specialist health disciplines. A prioritisation guide for plastic surgery was developed in 2009. According to this supervisor, breast cancer-surgery women who want to reconstruct their breasts today, as a general rule, are not entitled to the necessary health care. However, it is clarified in the guide that, within some conditions, individual conditions may exist in individual patients which may indicate that the main conditions of the priority regulation are still fulfilled. For example, women who have removed the breast due to cancer and who have significantly reduced the quality of life as a result of it are mentioned. These prioritisation guides will be reviewed on the basis of the experience gained and in line with developments in the subject areas. In general, I would like to say that it is important that patients receive good information about both the underlying disease and the individual conditions that need to be taken into account when evaluating the reconstruction of a breast that has been removed due to cancer. This may mean that, on the basis of a professional assessment, a common regime cannot be established for when it is natural to carry out such an intervention. Health South-East RHF, which has the longest waiting time for this type of operation, indicates that a separate expert board for cancer will be set up to provide an overall assessment of the functional and task distribution within the cancer area before the summer. Health South-East further informs that the technical council's proposal for functional distribution will be used as a basis for further work in the region to improve the capacity for breast cancer reconstruction. The Ministry of Health has noted with the Directorate of Health that post-criminal reconstruction is assessed in the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health. I have been confirmed that during the year this theme will be promoted to the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health for further advice on priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1202	I think most women with experience can realize that for someone who has to operate away a breast, especially at young age, and who then has to wait up to four years for reconstruction, which is the example I have from Health South-East, is incredibly long to wait. In addition, according to some recent medical evidence, cancer is so likely to occur with some genes that it is recommended to remove both ovaries and breasts. The dilemma for some is whether to remove the breasts and experience a serious, more difficult situation before getting cancer, or to wait and hope you don't get it. This makes this dilemma personal and individual, and it contributes to the increase in health cows. I think the government should think through whether it wouldn't be a point to use the private clinics that now have the capacity to enable people to get breast reconstruction at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1209	I think I should limit the answer to saying that I take this recommendation with me. Then it is as an answer to which the Minister of Health relates, the recommendation that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1214	I understand that when there is another state council present, it may be a little harder to answer all the questions. But I want to say that it's not just that you can refer everything to other advice and samples, or down the system. Sometimes state councils also have to take a stand on matters and ask themselves the question: Is it true that, for example, This is an area where you don't give freedom of choice to use the private offerings that exist, so that you can reconstruct your breasts faster? Breast cancer is one of the major causes of death among women below retirement age in Norway. It is important to focus on prevention, but in some cases prevention is actually to remove breasts before cancer occurs. What these women stand in is a hugely difficult dilemma if they know it's four years to wait. I hope that the Council of State can take this along, that for that type of patient there should be access to do this reconstruction elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1223	I just want to end by saying that we agree, this must be a terrible situation to be in. I'm going to make sure that the Council of State gets a report from this, and she will then bring what is now being said. Then it's up to her to evaluate it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1228	Question 10 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1234	This question, from the representative Bente Stein Mathisen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Labour on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1237	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions, which are answered here by the Minister of Labour: ‘In Asker and Bærum Budstikke on 26 and 27 February 2010, it was possible to read that 21 minor asylum seekers disappeared untracked from the transit reception at Hvalstad in 2009. Neighbors and receptionists are concerned that these children may be victims of trafficking in human beings. What will the Council of State and the UDI do to ensure that children coming to Norway as asylum seekers do not suffer from congestion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1246	Children seeking asylum are a particularly vulnerable group. The Government is concerned that their needs should be properly and properly met, whether with parents or alone. Both asylum-seekers and care centres for single minors under the age of 15 are voluntary offers. If someone wants to leave the receptions, they cannot initially be held back by coercion. The size agreed with this principle in the treatment of Ot.prop. No 28 for 2007-2008. In July 2009, the Government, at the hearing, sent a proposal for a new provision of the Child Protection Act which allows for the temporary placement of children without the consent of the institution in cases where there is a risk of the child being exploited for trafficking in human beings. Work is now in progress on drawing up a legislative proposal. Most single minors who disappear from reception do so in the initial phase of the asylum process. How many of them really are minors are unclear. Experience suggests that a good proportion of those who claim to be lone minors are not considered to be the case after a completed age survey. The disappearance of single minors from reception does not necessarily mean that there is something criminal behind it. However, the fear that lone minors who disappear may be victims of trafficking in human beings has led to an increased focus on such disappearances. Upon arrival for lone minors, a monitoring of the background of the children is carried out and closely followed up by staff. Manning at reception for lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 has increased in recent years. UDI and receptions have procedures for identification, warning and follow-up if there is reason to believe that young people are or may be exposed to trafficking in human beings. Police and child protection shall be warned, and child protection shall be assessed as appropriate with a take-over. They also have clear guidelines for alerting and alerting if a child does not return to the reception at the agreed time. The protection of victims of trafficking in human beings is protected by the criminal law and the new Foreign Affairs Act and the regulation which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Foreign, police and child protection authorities are all systematically working to prevent and detect trafficking in human beings among lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1259	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I would like to convey that people in the area around the reception in Asker are concerned. Some fear that there is some kind of light cloud activity. Several have recorded that young asylum-seekers are picked up by men in white-polished expensive cars, and a few hours later the girls are back and leaving the cars. This has been reported to both the reception and the police. The reception itself does a lot. They take this seriously, and a human trafficking team was established there in 2008, trying to identify potential risk children in relation to trafficking in human beings. Nevertheless, 21 minors disappeared untracked from reception last year. So I wonder, what additional security measures will be taken, in cooperation with the UDI?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1264	Essentially, I refer to the answer I have given, which includes, among other things, the increased number of staff on these asylum recipients for minors, the close follow-up with the police, foreign agencies and child protection to follow-up, as well as the legislative proposal to be able to take a forced action to relocate children and young people, so as to have a tool if they do not want to be at reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1269	The protection of children in Asker is part of this picture, and they examined all the concerns received regarding potential victims of trafficking in human beings in 2008 and 2009. They concluded, inter alia: that if the transit reception in Wvalstad had been located in a less central area and had not had so many places — they are allowed to have 140, in a densely populated area — child protection would have had fewer places in child protection measures for fear that children would be picked up by backers. My question is therefore: Will the Council take seriously the recommendation of child protection and do something about the size of the reception, possibly moving it to a less central place? Because it's not okay that kids just disappear without a trace, and you don't know exactly what's going on with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1276	We can totally agree that that's not right. I think I can answer that, too, on behalf of the Minister of Justice – with a broad pen. With regard to the specific question, whether I will follow the recommendation, as far as I understand, from child protection: I cannot answer that on behalf of the Minister of Justice, but I will ensure that the Minister of Justice answers it in writing afterwards to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1286	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘NVE has for treatment 6 concession applications for micro, mini and small power plants in the Bjerkreim watercourse. These applications have been examined in all relevant instances and inspections were carried out in the summer of 2009. Thus, everything should facilitate effective treatment in the NVE. Due to internal re-priorities in the NVE, these applications are now pending until September 2010. Will the Council of State take action to ensure better progress in the processing of these six applications and similar cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1295	The Ministry gives overall guidance on which issues NVE should give priority to its concessional treatment. The 2009 letter of award provided for the NVE to ‘prioritise the treatment of projects that can contribute rapidly to enhancing security of supply, in particular in vulnerable regions’. On the other hand, how the NVE prioritises individual cases is not a matter for the ministry or has anything to do with it. As the representative of Meling points out, there are currently six concession applications for the Bjerkreim watercourse for treatment at NVE. I have been informed that the processing of one of the applications, concerning Ørsdalen power plant, which is an upgrading of an existing power plant, should be completed as soon as possible. The other five cases seek the NVE to examine together in order to make the most comprehensive assessment of the effects when a final decision is to be taken. The birch watercourse is, as you know, protected. Although a separate limit for small power constructions is set in this watercourse, it will be necessary to take into account important protective values also in Bjerkreim, when the NVE makes a final assessment in these cases. In general, I would like to say that the Government has strengthened and streamlined NVE's concession treatment. This investment has led to the treatment duration per year. the case has been reduced and the concessional capacity has doubled in total since 2005. That's what results are. It has, among other things, as a result of an increase in the permits granted for hydropower generation, and for the period 2006-2009 authorisation was granted for the development of approximately 3400 GWh, while the corresponding figure for the previous period was 2 650 GWh.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1304	I would like to thank you for your answer. I record that the Council of State refers to the increased processing capacity of the NVE. That's good, but the question is whether that's enough. The Small Forces Association held its annual meeting in Haugesund last week. They could tell that 550 power plants are in line at NVE today, and that it is processed approx. 100 applications per year, i.e. a period of more than five years. The question is whether this is good enough. I noticed that the NVE also said that Ørsdalen power plant would come sooner than the others. The question is whether the Council of State can say something more precisely about when to come. Ørsdalen is in the situation that they are vulnerable to security of supply — in winter they have been partially blocked due to racial roads, etc. So getting a concession permit for Ørsdalen small power plants is, of course, most important – but the others are also important. The basic owners are disappointed that the NVE is unable to take these matters further away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1313	There are two elements to the procedure. One with a line. There I fully agree with the representative Meling, the queue is stupid, the queue should be as small as possible. That is why we have now put so much more money into the NVE system to get faster treatment. As I said in my first answer, we see that the trial period has now fallen, and that we are getting away with more matters than before. At the same time, it's not just spending more money and hiring new people. People should be trained, things take time. I think we're going to have a phase now that we see that the people who have entered the NVE system actually produce, so that we don't automatically increase the volume of the number of people immediately. When it comes to spending time on matters like this, it's two-sided. Those who are actors in a case are entitled to serious and proper proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1322	It is true that increasing the allocation is not always beneficial, so the Right has suggested transferring a case for mini-power plants to the municipalities. The Government and the State Council themselves have been out there proposing that mini-power plants be transferred to county municipal treatment. That means that one will relieve the NVE in the proceedings, and there may be a better sharing of responsibility and processes, which will allow the basic owners behind these and other small power plants to get answers – and treatment – quickly. Can the Council of State say anything about the situation in relation to the transfer to the county? And, once again, I would like to ask if the Council of State can say something more about Ørsdalen power plant, and when they can expect an answer to the concession request.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1329	Until then, I have nothing more to add. With regard to the first, the situation is that while the Right is in government, the lot did not do anything to transfer authority to local authorities in the case of concession treatment for the smallest power plants. I have put forward in concrete terms, and the Stortinget has joined in, a change that means that the smallest power plants get a process in the county municipality. It's a structural change. I hear the representative Meling and Right supports it. That's good. But I think we should be so honest and sober in this debate that we also agree on what was not done before – because this is a change that I have made, which is new now, and to which I have great hopes. It could have been suggested earlier, but it was not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1346	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1352	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Labour: ‘Persons who have previously received temporary disability benefit are now receiving redundancy benefits and are included in the context of amended tax rules and family allowances. How many persons in this group now receive lower social security payments on the basis of this, and how much can this amount be for the individual?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1361	From that time onwards, all those who had decided on the rehabilitation, return or fixed-term disability benefit that went beyond 1 March 2010 were transferred to the redundancy allowance. Beneficiaries of redundancy benefits are not entitled to special tax deductions due to age and disability, and child allowances are provided at a fixed rate. The Ministry has therefore, as announced in Ot.prp. No 4 for 2008-2009, on changes in the Law on Social Security and in some other laws [[clearance of work, performance assessments and activity plans]] The compensation for the loss of the tested child supplement is determined by freezing the child supplement that would have been required on the day before the entry into force of the new benefit. This does not result in compensation being adjusted upwards or downwards each time changes occur in the beneficiary’s economy. The loss of half of the special deduction is fully compensated under the transitional rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1372	I thank you so much for the answer, but I've got a number of letters in the last part of this case, and I want to use some examples. A few of those who wrote include that the special deduction that was before has now fallen, and that they lose 19 000 dollars a year. They have been told that it will be compensated for, as the Council of State also does well. They said in e-mails and letters to me and others that they would be compensated for it by 19 kroner extra per day. Today in the allowance supplement, i.e. approx. 400 kroner against the 1,500 kroner they lose a month. As I see it, it can't compensate for the loss they have. My question is: Is the Council sure that the letters I have received are incorrect, in which case it is wrong, and does she think that it will be compensated for, as it was warned?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1379	I cannot be sure whether the enquiries you have received are incorrect or not, because I have not seen those enquiries. I have to take that reservation. What I've been made aware of and aware of is that, in line with what has been announced to the Storting, there are transitional arrangements to compensate for it, so that there will be no significant differences until 2012. If the representative has specific cases where it is not actually carried out in this way, I have to ask to get back to the representative when I – in some way – get that information, and then of course I will do the necessary investigations to see if there is any problem in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1386	I'm very grateful for that. Another letter shows, for example: that in the case of the child supplement, it was calculated together with the disability benefit. Now when there are redundancy payments, it is counted as wages. This means that an individual who gets quite a lot in children’s supplements per person. years – approx. 25 000 kroner – now you have to pay tax on it, which is also an increased cost. I can give several examples to the council so she can look at it. I would like to ask a question: if it turns out that this is true, that those who have received temporary unemployment benefit, who have now been paid on redundancy payments, and who experience that they are losing money in proportion to what they were given before, are the Council of State willing to go in and see if it can be corrected and compensated to the full, or my Council of State that this is a possible effect in which she will agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1393	I will not now say anything about what I would like to mean until I have seen what might be the practical consequence of what is pointed out by the representative. According to the regulations, it is to be compensated for these losses for a period of time, and I am now dealing with that. And then we're going to look at the consequences, which I hope I get somehow from the representative, and then we'll talk about it when I get it on the table. So I don't promise to change things that I think are going to work, but I'm open to looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1398	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-24.ana.ud548e1411	There is no record. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
