ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e57	The representative of Trond Helleland will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e60	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the great-grandfathers Erna Solberg, Michel Tetzschner and myself to stop trying to cast an electronic vote outside the polls.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e77	The financial crisis and its aftermath have strengthened old and created new challenges for the countries of Europe and for EU cooperation. In this paper on key EU and EEA issues, it is therefore natural, as in the foreign policy statement here in March, to start here. EU countries had a decline in their gross domestic product of 4pst. in 2009. The decline has affected us differently. Hardly has it gone down on the Baltic countries. In a broader context, however, the decline in the largest EU country is more significant. Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy have experienced a greater economic decline than average. Eurocooperation is now facing major challenges. The euro has meant a strong exchange rate and a relatively low level of interest rates over many years. This has stimulated investment. But it has also stimulated debt-based, consumption-led growth and demonstrated the challenges of having a single currency, without having a common fiscal policy, and greater transfers of financial resources and labour between regions with different growth capacities – as I elaborated in the March statement. The euro has helped to avoid the pressure on national currencies from countries that had previously been unstable in their currency conditions. But it is worth remembering that whatever model you choose to organise monetary policy, good macroeconomic governance is a prerequisite for a balanced development for any economy. Some countries now have to pay high interest on the refinancing of their sovereign debt. High levels of debt and low growth are a difficult combination and are mutually reinforcing. Greece is precisely in this situation. The state financial crisis in Greece is serious and acute. It has put euro cooperation to its greatest test so far and created new uncertainty about the financial stability of Europe. It is therefore good that Greece last Sunday reached agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank on the proposal for a three-year stabilisation programme aimed at restoring Greek public finances and the Greek economy. The programme involves Greece receiving loans totalling EUR 110 billion over the programming period. Bilateral lending agreements with euro area countries will cover 80 billion of these, while the IMF will cover the remaining 30 billion. The Stabilisation Programme shall ensure that Greece’s budget deficit is significantly reduced, while strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economy. These measures include, inter alia: significant cuts in wages and pensions for public employees, while increasing taxes and raising retirement age. So this is not an easy solution – neither for Greece nor for the euro – but it is likely that the measures are absolutely necessary. If they're sufficient, time will show. The Stabilisation Programme shall be approved by the Greek Parliament and by the IMF’s Governing Board, and the loans of the euro countries shall also be subject to national parliamentary procedure. It is now working intensively to target the necessary decision-making procedures so that Greece can receive the first payment in time to cover a large loan maturity on 19 May. An extraordinary meeting of the Heads of State or Government of the euro zone is scheduled for the next Friday. Hopefully, the rescue package will help stabilise the situation in Greece and slow down the spread effects to other countries. Both for Greece itself and for financial stability in Europe, it is essential that Greece regains confidence internationally. At the same time, the EU will in the future look closely at how to strengthen euro cooperation. It is serious that the crisis has gone from being a financial crisis to being a job crisis and a debt crisis. Greece and several other EU countries, which also have a difficult budgetary situation, need to tighten up fiscal policies at a time when unemployment is increasing, and there is really a need to stimulate demand. This can create high and sustained unemployment, increased political tensions and further problems for euro-cooperation in the future. Therefore, developments in other vulnerable euro area countries such as Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland are also crucial. In this changing economic terrain in Europe, where many of our closest cooperating countries are now experiencing painful changes, the contrasts with Norway can be seen as great. But this also concerns us to the greatest extent, because we can expect the economic, financial and political situation in Europe to develop in a dramatic direction. When European countries are affected financially, it is about Norway’s closest allies and economic partners — for example, 80 pst. of our exports to the EU. If the development is weak in our single EEA market, the Norwegian economy is also affected, even if the basic economic conditions are positive in our country. That is why Europe's response to the challenges of the financial crisis directly affects us. We are following with interest the Commission's comprehensive proposal for a new growth and employment strategy, Europe 2020, which was largely endorsed by the EU Summit in March. Several aspects of the strategy will be relevant to Norway, such as the development of new EEA legislation and Norwegian participation in EU programmes. We have therefore committed ourselves to the design of the strategy, involving both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. At the same time, in our dialogue with the EU, we place emphasis on the importance of ensuring a level playing field in the internal market. Among other things, it is important that the financial crisis does not lead to protectionist measures or to increased use of anti-competitive aid. We are also concerned that measures should not lead to social dumping or that environmental considerations should be disregarded. Europe 2020 replaces the previous Lisbon strategy and will be the overall reform strategy in the future. The goal is a new, sustainable growth in the EU. The strategy is ambitious. Other initiatives and existing policies in the EU will be linked to them. The strategy has concrete objectives for employment, research, climate and energy action, education and poverty reduction. Weak growth is expected in EU economies this year, but the figures are uncertain. The banking sector is still vulnerable. Continued weak development in the EU weakens Norway’s export potential and may reduce prices of important exports. With the EU as our main market, it will contribute to a slower improvement in key Norwegian sectors. However, Norway has a significant surplus in foreign trade, and we will hardly experience a large impact on our overall real economy in the short term. As I've been through several times in this room, the financial crisis has hit our neighboring people in Iceland hard. Since the collapse of the Icelandic financial sector in the autumn of 2008, it has been the line of the Norwegian Government to go ahead in international cooperation to support Iceland. The line is understood and valued by the Icelandic government. There has been a Norwegian view that support for Iceland should take place in international cooperation and that the Nordic countries should stand together. Through such cooperation, Norway’s support has the greatest effect. This is also underlined in Innst. S. No 221 for 2008-2009, where the Stortinget dealt with a guarantee for loans from Norway’s Bank to the Icelandic central bank Sedlabanki. The Norwegian Government has not made the Icesave agreements between Iceland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom a condition for the further payment of the Norwegian loan to Iceland. What has been a condition is that the Governing Board of the International Monetary Fund, i.e. the IMF Member States, approves the review of Iceland's stabilisation programme. These conditions are common to the Nordic countries. There was long doubt as to when the IMF Board would deal with the second review of the stabilisation programme. Norway was working to ensure that this review was not subject to agreement on new Icesave agreements, but to take place as soon as possible. Cooperation between the Nordic countries was important here. The government is pleased that this work has been carried out and that the review was approved on 16 April with full support from the IMF Board. The decision implies that the third payment of the IMF loan, the second part of the Nordic loans and the first part of the loan from Poland are made available to Iceland. At the same time, Iceland must comply with its EEA obligations. The Icelandic government has repeatedly said that the country does. Iceland has a gross domestic product per capita. population above the average in Europe, even after the collapse of the Icelandic banking system. Iceland's economy is dynamic and its competitiveness is good. Icelanders have a surplus on the external trade balance. The fourth quarter unemployment rate was 7.6 pst. This is high for Icelandic conditions, but below average in Europe, where Norway is one of the few countries that are significantly lower. Countries such as Finland, Sweden and the United Kingdom have, for their part, a higher unemployment rate than this. It is also unclear when new negotiations on the Icesave agreement will begin. Norway keeps in constant contact with the Icelandic Government on this matter, and of course also on the demanding situation that has arisen after the volcanic eruptions. Since my last statement on the EU and the EEA, the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force. It happened on December 1st last year. This is a step further in the institutional development of the EU. Majority decisions will be taken in far more areas. Where individual countries and national parliaments had previously vetoed in many areas, direct democratic control should be ensured by extending powers to the European Parliament. The stated objective is to make cooperation between today’s 27 EU countries more effective and more democratic. How the provisions of the Treaty will be translated into practical action in the future will show us whether we succeed in achieving this objective. EU history is about the development of a governance system at European level, about the development of institutional frameworks and rules for cooperation in our part of the world in more and more policy areas. I would therefore like to focus more on the Treaty of Lisbon and the implications that the Treaty can have for Norway and our cooperation with the European Union. The history of the Treaty of Lisbon illustrates the nature of EU cooperation. Debate, disagreement, even crisis, is a natural part of democratic development at country level and when countries cooperate. It creates dynamics, forces change and innovation, changes cooperation and drives it further. The Treaty has now entered into force and its provisions are to be implemented. One of the objectives of the Treaty of Lisbon is to strengthen the role of the EU internationally. Since the EU has gained more members, it is, of course, more demanding to come up with a collection of views. At the same time, policy has become more sectoral. Several policy areas, such as justice, trade and aid, are included in the broader foreign policy. The EU has appointed a High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, the UK Catherine Ashton. She has to play two previous roles, as the EU's external representative and as Commissioner for Foreign Affairs. The High Representative shall also be the Vice-President of the Commission. Lady Ashton has a demanding job, but she has taken it with openness and willingness to include. There are vital qualities for one who is to bind strong national wills together. She represents both the Commission and the Member States internationally. She meets in the European Parliament to discuss foreign policy and attends summits. She is responsible for presiding over the monthly Foreign Minister's meetings, which were previously chaired by the Presidency's country. And she will build up the new EU External Action Service, with approx. 6000 employees. It's a job that requires a woman. This European External Action Service is a new EU body. It shall neither be subject to the Council nor to the Commission. The organisation shall assist the High Representative in its work and shall also support the President of the Commission and the President of the Council. I repeat, this is about 6,000 new employees. As Ashton has said, this should be a service organization. The new EEAS will have geographical units or ‘desserts’ for all countries and regions. We have understood that the service will be set up with a separate “norgesdesk”. It is positive, and we will be in touch with the European Union side on this. The details of the organisation are not finally clarified. If it was decided to transfer the EEA unit of the Commission to the new apparatus, we have been assured that the EEA work will continue in the same way as today. This is something we follow closely up. The establishment of the EEAS is a complex process, as is all institution building in the EU. Different considerations are to be weighed against each other, different tensions in the Member States are to be addressed – such as the desire for stronger coordination on the one hand, and the desire to mark their own national foreign policy on the other. It will take time for the new structures to be in place. In the future, EU forces will be used to lay an organisational basis for such a well-functioning common foreign service. The objective is clear: to make it easier for the EU to speak with one voice on the outside and to give the EU's common foreign and security policy sufficient impact. Since Norway and the EU are, in many cases, close to each other in foreign policy, a more coordinated and powerful EU in many contexts will be positive. Norway’s dialogue with the EU on foreign policy issues will continue and the new service can contribute to this dialogue. At the same time, at this initial stage, it may be more demanding for us to engage in EU decision-making in the field of foreign policy, especially when we note that much time and attention is devoted to internal institutional issues rather than to political issues. We are working hard to position Norway in this context. The EU’s common foreign policy will be no more common than what EU countries think it should be. The global weight of the EU also depends on the overall political power of the countries and on economic development. We are witnessing a shift in the economic and political centre of gravity in the world towards Asia, as I was in my foreign policy statement. Policy areas traditionally promoted by the EU, and by us in Norway, such as human rights, climate policy, an open world economy, are to be broken against the interests of others, ever stronger powers. This is where the EU’s common foreign policy – and ours – stands at the actual, long-term test. In connection with the establishment of the EU's new foreign service, questions have also been asked about how this will affect Nordic embassies cooperation. Let me spend one minute discussing this with my Nordic colleagues. They do not regard the new EEAS as a substitute for the national representation of EU countries — rather a complement. The work in progress to deepen and strengthen cooperation between Nordic countries will therefore continue. We are equally fully aware that the Nordic countries consider adjustments in their own foreign representation, which in turn may affect established cooperation between Nordic countries at country level. In addition, there is a desire from several countries that the EU's external service should also address consular issues, which have traditionally been a cooperation area for Nordic embassies cooperation. We have this in ongoing discussion at all meetings between the Nordic Foreign Departments. The Treaty of Lisbon further strengthens the European Parliament, both as a legislator, in the examination of the EU's common budget and by allowing Parliament to propose Treaty changes. In the codecision procedure, now referred to as the general legislative procedure, the European Parliament is the legislator, together with the Council. That arrangement came with the Maastricht Treaty, but is now being extended to more than 90 pst. of EU legislation. Here, national parliaments have a more direct role to play in the functioning of the EU. They shall ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected when EU legislation is adopted. Within eight weeks of the receipt of an EU legislative proposal, a national Parliament may express its opinion on whether a case should be raised to EU level. Norwegian work towards the European Parliament must continue to be strengthened, in line with the importance and development of the institution, as we have seen in several debates in this Chamber. The EU delegation in Brussels is central. The ambition is to continue to promote Norwegian interests in the work of the European Parliament. We have no agreement with the European Parliament on the secondment of national experts, as we have with the Commission. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now chairing a multi-ministerial working group to assess how Norway can integrate national experts into the European Parliament as well, and the Group will assess areas of special interest to us. The size has decided to have a mission at the official level of the Grand Duchy to work towards the European Parliament. The scheme aims to strengthen Storting's access to information from – and contact with – Parliament. It's positive. The Treaty of Lisbon also has an impact on EU justice and home affairs policy – a field in which Norway participates in important parts of cooperation through the Schengen Agreement. Cooperation here is concentrated in a separate part of the Treaty, called ‘An area of freedom, security and justice’. The abolition of the so-called ‘silver structure’ of the Treaty provides that the majority of former intergovernmental police and criminal law cooperation is now to be decided by majority decisions in the Council, with the full participation of the European Parliament. This also means that the part of the legislation in the field of justice taken over by Norway is now largely decided by majority decisions, and also by Parliament. We must therefore work more closely towards the European Parliament in this area as well. The new EU five-year programme for the field of justice and home affairs is called the Stockholm Programme. It was adopted at the summit in December 2009 and has an impact on Norwegian policy. The aim of the Programme is to ensure the fundamental rights, freedoms and integrity of individual citizens who have the right to reside within the borders of the EU. At the same time, external border control and crime prevention are important, in the EU as in Norway. Cooperation on better border control can reduce illegal immigration. The mandate of the EU Border Control Agency, Frontex, has been proposed. Main points will be a stronger commitment for Member States — and Norway — to participate in joint operations with personnel and equipment, the development of cooperation between Frontex and countries of origin and transit, enhanced cooperation on joint return operations and a clear policy for maritime operations. The Stockholm Programme has an impact on Norway, among others: because, through the Schengen and EEA Agreement, we are bound by a number of acts adopted. The Communication to the EEA on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective, presented in March, states that this very important policy area needs to be developed in cooperation with, and adapted to, what is happening in our neighbouring European countries. Although the Treaty of Lisbon substantially extends the substantive provisions of the internal market on which the EEA Agreement is based, it could also indirectly affect the functioning of EEA cooperation. As I mentioned earlier in the Stortinget, the Treaty of Lisbon completes the construction of the bridge structure designed by the Maastricht Treaty. The new Treaty makes EU cooperation even more sectoral. The EEA Agreement is based on the original EC Treaty and the provisions on the internal market, with the exception of the provisions on agriculture and fisheries policy, customs union, trade policy and assistance. The Treaty of Lisbon has provided the same legal basis for EU justice and home affairs policy. The EU can therefore increasingly design legislation across the internal market and justice. Even today, it may be difficult to decide whether all or part of new legislation coming from the EU should be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We must expect that the need to revise legislation in a concrete way, the provision for regulation, could increase. This can make it more difficult to make the necessary clarifications and reach agreement with the EU on a number of issues, and here we must probably be the active drivers ourselves. Key instruments are our right to participate in expert groups and committees and our close dialogue with the Commission throughout the EEA structure. However, we have reason to believe that the European Commission is also interested in pragmatic cooperation with Norway in this area. The Treaty of Lisbon can have implications for our participation and our capacity to influence through the EEA Agreement. If there is increasing uncertainty as to whether and to what extent new acts are relevant to the EEA, the right of EEA/EFTA countries to intervene in the development of legislation may be called into question. This is also why early warning and preparation of Norwegian positions, alliance construction and influence in the EU capitals and vis-à-vis EU bodies are at least as important as in the past. The Commission has also recently submitted proposals for amended comitology procedures, which it says, i.e.: legislative procedures whereby the Commission is delegated the powers and responsibilities of the Council and the European Parliament to design and adopt supplementary legislation. Norwegian participation in this work is important, as it allows Norwegian views to be promoted in the EU's work on the further development of legislation that is or will be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We are working to ensure that Norway and the other EEA/EFTA countries are involved in these processes in the EU, in order to ensure that our rights to participation are adequately respected. The voting rules of Programme Committees are another matter which has changed as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon. Norwegian representatives have experienced that our votes are not heard in the same way as before. We will follow this issue carefully in the future and take it up with the EU side to the extent that we consider it necessary. In the context of European policy, there are two main features of this process: firstly, a review of our experience with the EEA Agreement and other agreements Norway has with the EU, through a research-based, wide-ranging public body. The committee consists of 12 members, including both researchers and persons with practical experience of the EEA Agreement. The selection will report in autumn 2011 and will be followed by a notification to the Stortinget. The work of the sample is well under way and a reference group of organisations, businesses and political parties has been set up. The Government's ambition for the review is to contribute to a common knowledge base for the European political debate. The second main track is an update and re-awareness of the measures notified in St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, from June 2006, on the implementation of European policy. This Communication remains the basic document of the Government’s European policy. During this ageing period, we focus on actions related to further knowledge, transparency and dialogue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, among other things: launch of a separate information promise on the EEA and Norway’s relationship with Europe. The aim is to make European information from the public simpler and more accessible. We will implement around 40 actions targeted at selected user groups: business, administration, children and young people, press, organisations and recipient groups in the EU. To summarise this point, EU countries agreed on the Treaty of Lisbon to make cooperation more democratic and effective. As with all other political work, such ambitions must be demonstrated by concrete results. Norway’s overall interest is that the EU countries are doing well economically and politically – they are our neighbours, trading partners and the vast majority of them our allies, and in most areas we have similar interests. On the other hand, it is far from being understood that Norwegian interests are becoming easier to attend to. We are meeting a more complex EU where countries are to ‘run in’ new joint institutions, institutions are in turn to mark their position and competences in interaction with established institutions, while EU countries are to find the current balance between promoting their own national interests and supporting the EU's common positions. In this landscape, we will continue to highlight Norwegian views and interests – as a non-EU country, but integrated in close cooperation through the EEA Agreement and other links. It is in our interest, but also in the European Union's own interest. The EU has designated 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion. On 18 June 2009, the Storting gave its consent to Norway's participation in the European Year 2010. Norway takes a clear responsibility, in particular with the EEA funds, for development and cohesion in Europe. Over the five-year period 2004-2009, Norway has allocated funds for projects and programmes in the 15 beneficiary countries of more than DKK 10 billion. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein shall contribute a total of 357,7 million over the next period. EUR per year, or approx. Three billion kroner. This is a power cap. Our contribution to reducing social and economic differences in the EEA area is significant, and, as we know, about 97 pst. of these funds come from Norway. Several of the beneficiary countries are in a difficult economic situation with high unemployment, cut public budgets and increasing indebtedness. The EEA funds provide us with a unique opportunity to strengthen links and expand cooperation with our new partners in the EEA at a time when these funds mean a lot. Through the EEA financial instruments, Norway supports joint European ambitions for better environmental standards, for more balanced economic and social development between countries and for enhanced efforts in the justice, civil society and health sectors. This is also part of Norwegian policy and our priorities. This effort shows results, projects are completed, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs publishes ongoing reports that provide concrete experience for the next period. As Stortinget is well known, the negotiations on a new agreement on EEA funds for the years 2009 to 2014 were concluded before Christmas last year. We expect the formal talks with the recipient countries about the use of funds to start during the autumn of this year. But the final process on the EU side before final signature has taken time. On the Norwegian side, the process is clear: The Storting has been consulted on the outcome of the negotiations, and the Government aims to promote a proposition for the Stortinget during the spring session. During this period, the EEA funds will focus more on areas that Norway itself prioritises. At least one quarter of the funds shall be used for environmental and climate action. We will contribute to decent working life and tripartite cooperation, and support for civil society will continue. The industrial dimension is strengthened by a specific green food development programme. In line with the interests of the EU and Norway, the justice sector is another important area in the future. The government wants, among other things: to view EEA funds in the context of the possibility of a settlement transfer to the home Member State. Furthermore, it becomes its own research and grant programmes for educational cooperation. The targets for the use of funds in the new five-year period will be further described in the upcoming forecast of the Stortinget. The agreements with the EU stipulate that links between donor countries and recipient countries should be strengthened. This is an independent objective of the arrangements. A good basis has already been established through project cooperation with Norwegian professional communities between 2004 and 2009. Over the next five years, we will facilitate both contact-creating activities and long-term cooperation programmes. In environmental and climate action, carbon capture and storage, in the fields of justice, education, research and health, in business development and regional development, there will be programmes where Norwegian professional authorities can be partners. Although the funds are unbundled in form, Norwegian competence will be sought. In the context of the negotiations on new important EEA contributions, Norway and the EU have also reached agreement on the continuation and increase of important duty-free quotas for fish. The new agreement on market access for fish shall enter into force at the same time as the new contributions. I now want to mention some of the relevant EEA issues. The EU climate and energy package with the so-called 20-20-20 targets was launched in autumn 2007. The package contains instruments that promote the objective of direct reduction of CO2 emissions through the ETS Directive and a more indirect focus on increased, committed use of renewable energy. Although the global negotiations in Copenhagen failed, the EU is firmly committed to the concrete design of its climate policy. The EU Summit in March discussed how the Copenhagen Agreement could be exploited in the negotiations under the UNFCCC and how the EU could build alliances to promote better climate policies in other countries. The revised EU ETS Directive lays down the rules for the third phase of the European ETS for the years 2013 to 2020. The system will cover about half of EU greenhouse gas emissions. The Government has opened up the inclusion of the Directive into the EEA Agreement and there are now discussions with the Commission on its terms and conditions. The Renewables Directive is another part of the climate and energy package. This Directive implies binding national targets for the share of renewable energy measured in relation to the total energy consumption of the countries. In addition, countries shall comply with requirements of 10 pst. renewable energy in transport. National targets are part of the EU's internal burden-sharing. EU countries start with a renewable share of on average 8.5 pst. in 2005 and will achieve a target of about 20 pst. renewable share in 2020. Norway’s share is currently known to be close to 60 p.p., higher than any EU country. The Government considers the Renewable Directive to be EEA-relevant and there has been wide consultation in Norway. It is a comprehensive regulatory framework affecting large parts of the energy sector. It is therefore necessary to consider it carefully. We will add to the EEA treatment of the renewable directive so that the Directive can be implemented in Norway in an appropriate way. As regards the so-called Eurovignett Directive on the harmonisation of, inter alia, tolls, the Government remains in dialogue with the Commission on inclusion in the EEA Agreement. The size will be kept informed of developments in the case. The financial crisis has revealed many weaknesses both in the European regulation of financial markets and in the supervision of these markets. On this basis, the EU has, among other things, to launch a comprehensive work on the establishment of a new and improved supervisory structure at European level. The central theme here is the proposal to establish three new agencies entrusted with the supervision of individual institutions in the banking, insurance and securities fields, respectively. Bureaux shall have the competence to take decisions concerning individual enterprises. At a general level, the establishment of a separate body, the Risk Board, is envisaged to oversee macroeconomic developments. This also affects the internal market, of which we are part. To this end, the Government has been working to ensure a satisfactory representation of the EEA/EFTA countries in these new bodies. And after the relevant legal acts have been adopted in the EU, the Government will consider including them in the EEA Agreement so that Norway can participate in the joint supervision of the financial market. The wide-ranging consultation on the Data Storage Directive has now been carried out. The Government is now reviewing the results of the consultation and clarifying its view on the possible inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. As you know, the different positions of the directive in the three governmental parties are different. The size will be kept informed about the further process. The Commission is currently carrying out an evaluation of the Data Storage Directive and will present the result to the European Parliament and the Council by 15 September. We will take this into account in the Norwegian assessment. In 2009, the EU adopted a new Directive on deposit guarantee schemes. This Directive goes beyond the previous Directive, which is incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The new Directive limits payments to EUR 100 000 per year. customer and bank. This is less than half the limit of 2 million. NOK under the Norwegian scheme. The justification for full harmonisation is the consideration of equivalent competitive conditions for banks in different countries. However, Norway has long had higher spending limits than other countries without leading to distortions of competition in favour of Norwegian banks. We are working to continue the Norwegian system under the new directive in accordance with what is stated in the Soria Moria II Declaration and in the 2010 National Budget. So far, the EU has been reprehensible, but we will continue to work to make our vision come true. The extensive legislation on the production, placing on the market and control of food and feed, which was long delayed pending parliamentary treatment in Iceland, has now been notified by Iceland. The food law package thus entered into force formally from 1 May 2010. It was provisionally applied from 1 March. This legislation covers the whole food chain, from primary production to placing on the market for the consumer, and shall ensure a high level of protection for consumers and equal rules for economic operators in the EEA countries. Following lengthy negotiations, Norway and the European Commission agreed in January this year on an Article 19 Agreement on increased trade in agricultural products. The case will be submitted to Stortinget. The EU Cell Regulation was adopted last year and prohibits the placing on the market of cell products in the EU. The ban will enter into force on 20 August of this year. The sales deal is about our right and our ability to operate sustainable management of living marine resources and to market products from fishing and fishing. None of the cell populations we catch are threatened. If we accept the ban, we accept that there is a precedent for a trade ban on such a basis in our main market. That is why the Government has considered it appropriate to bring this matter before the World Trade Organisation. Norway, together with Canada, held last year’s WTO dispute resolution consultations with the EU in December. The government is considering furthering the case to a WTO panel. Such a decision, if any, will be taken after a thorough assessment of the responses and signals received from the EU in relation to the dispute resolution consultations. We will also be in close contact with Canada in this regard. The EU has presented to the Member States proposals for implementing Regulations for the exemptions from self-employment. We're working to influence this process as well. However, it does not appear that any of the exemptions, as clarified in the proposal for an implementing regulation, will allow Norwegian cell products to be sold in the EU. EU agencies play an increasingly important role in EU policy-making and in the implementation of legislation at national level. EEA/EFTA countries want to participate in all agencies that are relevant for us to meet our EEA obligations. Currently, the EEA/EFTA countries participate in 17 such agencies in the framework of the EEA Agreement. We participate in the governing bodies without voting rights, with the exception of the European Food Safety Authority, where we do not participate in the Management Board. We want to participate in another five agencies, including the new EU Agency for Energy Regulators. The EU side has been in favour of Norwegian participation in these agencies. We are now working to find solutions for our participation within the EEA Agreement. At the end of this statement, let me again underline this: the financial crisis puts international cohesion to the test and makes differences between countries, including in Europe. The pressure on the common currency and the precarious situation in Greece illustrate this. Norway has escaped from the financial crisis more easily than most other countries in Europe, but the crisis nevertheless affects vital Norwegian interests. The EU countries are Norway's second largest economic partners. The Norwegian economy is strong, yet open and vulnerable to economic fluctuations. A manageable EU and a well-functioning internal market means a lot for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian well-being. Norway relies on the whole EEA area to come out of the financial crisis. The EU countries are also our closest allies and political partners, and we are interwoven through cultural and historical ties in a community of values and justice. We want to associate with the rest of Europe in the meeting of the financial crisis and its aftermath. We want to show solidarity and take responsibility. A few words at last about last week's events in a European perspective. The Barents and Poles divide-line agreement is also an important event for Europe – a European border has been established. New opportunities for cooperation on resources, the environment and business are now opening up. Norway, Russia and the rest of Europe have been served with ever closer cooperation and good joint solutions. The agreement between Norway and Russia on simplified local border traffic in South Varanger is another example. This is a mechanism of the Schengen acquis, and only minor clarifications remain before the agreement can be signed. The agreement will open to approx. 9000 persons permanently resident on the Norwegian side of the border, and 45000 persons on the Russian side, may be issued with a border resident’s certificate which will allow access to the visa-free crossing of the common border. In the years that come, we'll probably see more of these examples. Finding joint solutions both regionally and internationally is a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e271	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e287	The possibility for Norway to have its own foreign stations was a contributing reason for the Union’s resolution with Sweden in 1905. We wanted a foreign service that protected Norwegian interests and not least our commercial interests. Ambassadors and consultants are important to Norway for many reasons, and they perform a wide range of tasks on behalf of the Norwegian state, our business and our citizens. A lot of our foreign stations are expected, not least when crises occur. Foreign stations are expected to be where Norway has interests or an involvement, where Norwegian business is present and where Norwegian residents live or vacation. In the 2010 world, this means that Norway should be optimally present physically anywhere at all times. That's not possible. That is why it must be a priority. How Norway organises its foreign service is the responsibility of the Government. This is not an attempt to change this. Nevertheless, this kind of question has an interest far beyond the Government. It is not new that Stortinget discusses the location of foreign stations. Here is an opinion by Erik Solheim, from a debate on 5 December 1997: ‘This is not a practical question as to where the Government chooses to place an embassy, this is a political issue of first rank.’ He also said that: ‘the Foreign Affairs Committee, and hence the Stortinget, has made significant progress in the placement of embassies and the handling of embassy questions. I was even the case rapporteur for the establishment of the Norwegian Embassy in Addis Ababa.» The President of Storting said on the same occasion that there has not been a completely consistent line in such matters. So as in many other questions, the Storting here can probably allow to have both opinions and, in the ultimate sense, make proposals. In my time at Stortinget, there have been on a few occasions both debated and promoted proposals for the maintenance of various stations that various governments have wanted to shut down. The influence of the big business has also led to results, such as when the embassy in Abu Dhabi was rescued despite a former government's desire for closure. While Abu Dhabi was being rescued, the consulates in Hamburg, Hong Kong, and Miami were then shut down. All three were important support players for Norwegian business. The Consulates of Edinburgh and Minneapolis have disappeared. This too created a lot of debate. What these stations have in common is that they were important for Norwegian business, for Norwegians living outside or for Norwegian Americans. These stations had little or no tasks in relation to Norwegian engagement or development policy. Fortunately, the Government has broken this negative development by, among other things, to restore the consulate in Hamburg, to establish consulate in Guangzhou, to move the embassy from Tunis to Algeria and to establish an embassy in Kazakhstan. We are pleased that the Government in this way takes care of the interests of the Norwegian business community, and that the presence in Scotland is again a priority. Interpellation is not intended to promote the creation or closure of individual stations. The desire is to get the Foreign Minister's overall views on how he sees fit to organise this instrument in the years to come, not least as a result of the changes we see in the world around us. It's about power relationships between countries. This applies to the presence of Norwegian industry. It is also about the changed patterns of living and holidays in the Nordic countries. This debate is now being held, completely independent of the budget and independent of concrete amendments. It is natural to refer to St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, which Stortinget discussed last spring. Here, engagement policy, at least from the point of view of some of us, was downplayed, and the more traditional policy of interest came out more clearly. Officially, it was that engagement policy was defended by the fact that this is interest policy. But the leftover impression is that the mending idealism that has characterized Norway for many years was faded down. Norway’s peace exposure remains strong, but it has also changed. There is less focus on conflict resolution, and more efforts are being made to address various multilateral negotiating tracks, which relate to nuclear disarmament and class weapons. These relationships, and many more, affect how the Government organizes its service. Long-termity in presence is important. At the same time, there is a need to be flexible and to have an instrument capable of operating at short notice. In other countries, there are also changes in this area. Sweden's foreign minister, Carl Bildt, announced earlier this year that Sweden will set up five embassies in Europe. The picture said this: «We want to be in those places where we do the most possible benefit for the money Swedish presence costs.» Norway is in a European context in a different situation from Sweden, with our alienation from the EU and NATO membership. We need other listening and influencing posts. But there is also a need to assess diet and benefits. A few years ago, several new embassies were established in new NATO and EU countries. Does it give the good effect of being present as wide as we are today, or is there any other way to organize this? From time to time, proposals have also been made for and discussed broader Nordic cooperation on foreign stations. Something has happened, but not so much. Now the Foreign Minister was about this topic in his presentation, and I could imagine challenging him to say a little about when we can expect more results from such Nordic cooperation and what form such cooperation might take. I do not conceal that with this interpellation I am opening up to a debate that I hope it is possible to continue between the Stortinget and the Government – it is based on a recognition that it is also in Stortinget's interest to debate Norwegian foreign service. Finally, I would also like to say that I find it natural to give general praise to Norwegian foreign stations for the assistance we receive from Stortinget when we are on a mission abroad. As Norway is more strongly influenced by what is happening outside its borders, and as Norwegian interests need to be more closely attended to elsewhere, so do glacial representatives more often outside this house. There is also a reason why we allow ourselves to have opinions on how Norwegian foreign service is and should be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e330	When it comes to general praise from that edge, I will accept it and distribute it to my good employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will be appreciated. I would also like to start by saying that I welcome the debate. I think it is natural and legitimate that the way in which the EEAS delivers its efforts, is discussed, recognised, evaluated and, if necessary, criticised, on the condition – as the representative also said – that it is the responsibility of the Government to manage the organisation. The representative, Høglund, addresses important questions, and it gives a good opportunity to present some thoughts and perspectives – not on a single matter, but on a principle basis. I would first like to comment on the premises on which the representative refers, namely that globalisation has increased the need for a strong economic and commercial presence abroad. This is particularly true where the emphasis is on the question. I can join that analysis. The same applies to his assessment of the increasing internationalisation of Norwegian business, which imposes new requirements on assistance provided by the Norwegian authorities. It has been established on repeated occasions that Norwegian foreign policy must have as its primary objective Norwegian interests outside the world, and that this must be reflected in the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at our stations. This has been and has been reflected in the Foreign Service Act and in the Foreign Affairs Directive, and it is reflected in connection with the annual budget proposals and, as the representative said, in St.meld. No 15th The interpretation and implications of this statement also depend on what is included in the term ‘Norwegian interests’. I think that the representative and I have a somewhat different view of this. I don't want to admit that engagement policy has become less important, but it's been focused, concentrated and focused on areas where we think we have a chance to make a difference. I can also say that it is not annoying, but it is sought to complete the whole picture of what is in Norwegian interest. An interest-oriented foreign policy refers, inter alia, to: a policy that systematically seeks to promote the well-being, security and fundamental values of Norwegian society. Globalisation and geopolitical changes mean that interests and values are increasingly being woven together, and, as I have often said, the place ‘long away from Norway’ is no longer in foreign policy, nor is it scarce for Norwegian businesses or other travellers. The interpellant points out that globalisation has made the importance of a flexible embassy and consulate structure visible. I agree, and let me refer to some of the adjustments that the Government has made. We were at the beginning of 2010 represented by diplomatic or trade consular representation in 92 countries, with a total of 110 trade unions, i.e. 88 embassies, eleven consulates, three embassy sections, one representative office and seven permanent delegations. If we look at the last six years, from 2005 to 2010, there have been two embassies, three embassy sections and four consulates in general. At the same time, four diplomatic representations are upgraded to full-fledged embassies. During the same period, two embassies and two consulates in general have been closed. Our staff abroad in 2005 totaled 1,523 annual works, while it is now 1,616 annual works. The number of employees is higher. These changes testify to an increased Norwegian presence abroad and to an active adjustment of the EEAS. The increase has almost entirely been achieved by increasing the number of local staff at stations. Many of these jobs assist Norwegian companies and companies at the place of employment who want to contact Norwegian companies. There has also been an increase in the number of so-called special broadcasts, i.e. employees of other parts of the administration serving in the EEAS for a period of time in order to work in their field of competence. On the part of the Government, these adaptations reflect an overall assessment of the balance of economic interests with other important tasks to be performed by foreign agencies within the budgetary framework accorded by the Storting. The decision to establish embassies in Algiers and Astana and consulates-general in Guangzhou and Hamburg was based on such assessments, where not least business interests weighed heavily. In addition, the ongoing adjustments take place within the current structure and configuration. Many foreign stations report that the promotion of Norwegian business interests and contacts is taking on an increasing share of their total resource use. This is also a field of work that I myself prioritise, at home and outside. The resources at our disposal are constantly being sought against the most priority tasks or the services where there is high demand and clear policy needs, which vary from place to place and in time. We want to demonstrate a flexibility in the system that is of great importance for the effective functioning of the EEAS. With regard to the future organisation of Norwegian foreign stations, I will refer again to St.meld. No 15 and its examination by the Committee. The Communication contains a separate chapter, Chapter 14, on the external service’s tasks to safeguard Norwegian economic and social interests in a globalised world. It is stressed here that responsibility for dealing with international economic issues is shared among several ministries and that good cooperation between them is important. Furthermore, foreign stations and Innovation Norway are considered as central contact points and door openers for Norwegian business. Several Norwegian enterprises are growing mainly beyond the borders of Norway, and the location, tasks and priorities of Norwegian foreign stations need to be kept under constant review. Work to improve Norwegian business access to foreign markets — in addition to all work to make the framework conditions for Norwegian business as good as possible — including: within the EEA, the WTO, the OECD and other fora, is a central task of Norwegian foreign policy and therefore of the EEAS. In addition to this, I will be careful to bind the foreign stations to one particular work structure over a certain period of time. Flexibility must be the key. We have all experienced how we live in a global and rapidly changing world, how unexpected events and developments such as terrorist attacks, bankruptcies, global financial crisis, pandemics or volcanic eruptions – yes, or new opportunities and breakthroughs for Norwegian interests – can quickly create uncertainty about the framework conditions under which we operate in different areas. This is particularly true in promoting our economic and commercial interests, such as energy, the environment and the climate. We want a flexible foreign service that can offer businesses, government and Norwegian citizens abroad a wide range of services. We must therefore seek to adapt the organisation continuously, and we must try to channel the resources where we get the most back for them. This also applies to the way in which the EEAS is organised — in relation to regional coverage from one station versus having an embassy in each country in the region in question. These are things we have for ongoing investigation. The need and demand for different services should be a central guiding factor for the organisation. It is also important that the current station manager has a significant degree of opportunity to adapt the services at his/her place of employment. Today, we have an apparatus to promote business interests abroad, and foreign stations play an important role, not in isolation, but in interaction with such actors. This is primarily the case through extensive — formal and informal — cooperation with Innovation Norway, which has 30 foreign offices. The agreement between the U.D. and Innovation Norway involves, inter alia: foreign stations shall represent Innovation Norway in markets in which Innovation Norway is not itself present. In addition, we have a term called Team Norway, where foreign stations cooperate with Intsok, Intpow and the Fish Export Committee, which focuses on internationalising Norwegian industry in oil, gas, renewable energy and fish. This together constitutes a network that assists Norwegian business with a variety of services. The changes made in the organisation of the EEAS must therefore be seen in the context of the relationship with the other network. My experience is that we have a foreign service that focuses on promoting the breadth of Norwegian interests abroad, not least business interests, in an effective way. The sum of the feedback I think is positive – we also invite to it. But we're never going to lean back and say that we're in the goal. Here, as usual, there must be a willingness for continuous improvement and learning, not least based on what business needs. Our focus will continue to be to have a service that is as efficient, competent, user-friendly and accessible as possible. At the same time, we should develop our competences in areas that are given increasing emphasis, often in addition to purely commercial ones, as competence in corporate social responsibility, also known as the CSR. Here we have a close interaction with business and employment organisations – as in working with St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009, on corporate social responsibility in a global economy. We have learned that Norwegian companies are increasingly looking for the U.D.'s advice on the CSR view in one market or another. I have experienced an interest in such questions from among others. Hydro in connection with the recently announced purchase in Brazil, which will bring the company in close contact with such related questions. We want to do what we can to help the company here as well. And I got another reflection on this when President Tadic of Serbia, who is visiting Norway yesterday and today, praised Telenor for the company's behaviour in Serbia – with emphasis on the company's investments, but also on the company's social responsibility. On this basis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to focus on assisting Norwegian business abroad – supporting their value creation with the best of our competence and in interaction with our partners. The structure of the presence of the service will then need to be continuously adapted to the needs. I agree with the inter-pellant that our Nordic country's assessments are absolutely crucial to us. At the same time, they, like Høglund, can have a slightly different motivation because of EU membership. It is also an ongoing assessment in Norway as to whether it is appropriate and necessary to be represented in all EU countries. It is obvious that this trend is being broken by the EU countries themselves, and I think it is wise for us to see that development somewhat before we draw hasty conclusions. It has also been shown that the idea of creating so-called hubs – i.e. one embassy in one region covers countries around – which can be attractive on paper, often is not as effective in terms of contact management. But we are constantly seeking to see how we can make services better, more reasonable and more efficient, and will not exclude any such organization in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e389	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very thorough answer. He gave a good account of developments and the situation in the Norwegian foreign service. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we will probably look a little differently at what is Norwegian interest. When I talked about that we actually have a less mind-blowing foreign policy today, it was from my side that was meant to be a compliment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yes, we're going to listen to business, and I'm glad the Foreign Minister confirms it. Because even if this happened before this government joined, the situation around the closure and the proposal for closure in Abu Dhabi was an example that I hope we will avoid in the future. That's why I think it's important to take business on board. It is also important to discuss with Stortinget, and I am pleased with the openness shown by the Foreign Minister here. Although we all agree that this and many other foreign policy issues are the ultimate responsibility of the Government, many of these issues are discussed in different forums in the UK. However, the creation and closure of foreign stations rarely comes to Stortinget otherwise than as a comment in e.g. a budgetary document. I would challenge the Foreign Minister to take this up – not to ask for a decision, but simply to discuss it and to reconcile the Foreign Minister's view with the Stortingets. Flexibility is very good, and I appreciate that approach. My challenge, as the Foreign Minister might say something about now, is this Nordic cooperation and what can come out of it purely practical. There have been different ambitions. We've got something, for example. cooperation on the construction of buildings, but can we imagine that this will be further promised in the future, so that – as the Foreign Minister explained earlier today – this will be a topic when the Nordic Foreign Ministers meet? And can we imagine the practical results of such cooperation now in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e403	I understood that it was a compliment with a little bit of ambiguity, and I took it as well. I have a lot of respect for misioners, those who do it properly, but it's not our task, so I take that rose with me and appreciate it. It's clear that to create new stations, I think the approach must be that we also have to be open to shutting down. It's not that it's a given zero sum game, but I'm operating from that picture that we have frames that we have to find fit within. I'm open that we have a discussion about where it might be natural to lay down, but I think it's a demanding discussion to conduct as a consultation, because there'll always be resistance to shutting down. I have to say I have respect for the resistance to making changes – not lay down, but make changes – in Edinburgh and Minneapolis. I have visited both places and found them in satisfactory operation. Now the new Consul General in Minneapolis will visit Norway in a few days, and both Walter Mondale and the new one, Gary Gandrud, report that this is an exciting station today. But there was a lot of noise around those changes. They were painful, as all such changes are, because they affect traditions, but they were therefore necessary to open up a presence south of Spain and south of China. So yes, consultations, but that's enough for the seventh and ultimately why the government has this responsibility, because it has to do some painful cuts in order to establish in other areas. But we're going to have openness around it, I agree. I also agree with the representative that the Gulf is an area of increasing importance for Norway – this whole region, up towards Central Asia – and I think we have reflected it in our presence today. In the case of Nordic cooperation, this is very close. This happens between administrations weekly, including between station managers weekly and perhaps daily — especially in the consular area. The Stoltenberg report highlights close cooperation as a separate area. I feel that there is a vast willingness between ministers to go quite far in this area. At the same time, we also experience certain limitations on how much embassies between independent countries can do together. There are some people who imagine – Stoltenberg was involved – that one should have a common embassy under the common boss, but with different reports. I think that's a mess from where we're standing today. But now, when the Nordic countries – both for economic reasons and as a result of this EU external service that I have reported – are going to make changes, we will be watching and following closely, especially if there is a trend that many Nordic countries are going down and then pointing to Norway for consular work. So there has to be some balance in the case. But here we have such a close dialogue that we can tell about it in good time, and I see Nordic cooperation as a quite unique resource in taking care of Norwegian interests abroad. Among other things, I saw when we opened the embassy in Astana, that the fins enter the part of the apartment complex where we are. Such examples are positive. Our presence in Iraq with the Swedes is another example.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e414	The Presidents will only note that «God's law» is hardly a parliamentary expression, but did not see it as bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e417	First, thank you to the representative, Mr Höglund, who is raising an open debate and an important debate. I also think it is interesting to listen to the representative, Mr Höglund, here today, who has really argued for a slightly different type of priority than the majority in this Chamber. Just to say: I wholeheartedly support under the foreign minister's broad interpretation of what is within the concept of 'Norwegian interests' and that it also includes engagement policy. The EEAS will promote the interests of Norwegian business abroad and, in an increasingly global competitive environment, it is important to recognise that Norwegian enterprises are working in an increasingly tough international market. It takes a lot of resources and a lot of knowledge. It is therefore very important that Norwegian businesses receive assistance and assistance from the EEAS as one of several. But the EEAS should also assist Norwegian citizens effectively, as a crisis management organisation, as a first line in terms of our foreign administration. It also means that the EEAS must have a type of information technology adapted to a global interactive service. The service must also be flexible and in line with time. It must reflect on the new distribution of power in the world and take into account that Norway also has new industrial interests and involvement in the global era in which we live. Then it is important that one deploys the resources into the organisation, both politically and geographically, where the most important tasks are to be solved. There has been a lot of focus here today on Nordic cooperation, which I think is exciting. But I also think that Europe is now building up a new foreign service is very exciting. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out earlier today, it is clear that stronger cooperation with Europe in the field of foreign affairs is important. The Minister also made this point. Innovation Norway and the Committee of Fish Exports are also two important actors, such as us. now sees it during the Expo exhibition. On 1 May the Norwegian pavilion opened at what is the largest world exhibition in the world. So far, there has been greater inflow than expected. I believe this is a good example of cooperation — fruitful cooperation — between the EEAS, Innovation Norway and the business community in Norway. Norwegian Foreign Service has 80,000 consular matters a year. Many of them are quite simple and concern unfortunate nordics in distress. Others are heavier things. There are Northmen who commit crime abroad, who are imprisoned, people who are at risk with knowledge and will, people without travel insurance who get into trouble, or who die abroad for that matter. These are examples of heavier and difficult issues that also often create major headlines in the media, and that put great pressure on us, both politicians and on the foreign service, about action – everything from accident to people who deliberately circumvent Norwegian rules by going abroad and getting what they want to do, there. Norwegian authorities are not always able to or should not sort out. However, Norwegian foreign service has established daily staff to assist Norwegians in need abroad. Nevertheless, I think it is important to stress that the welfare state is not global and cannot eliminate all the risks to the Nordics on their way. There's no reason either. We have no inflatable Norwegian welfare state that you can take me on your back when you leave. It is a matter of course – but I still think it is important to stress that there is not always Norwegian foreign service that can help, except that they have a framework to deal with in the countries they are. But it is also very important that there is good travel advice, good information available both to businesses and to the Nordics who are out on the road. Int. 7 S for 2009-2010, in the budget statement, we could read that the members of the Progress Party ‘considers it necessary to establish Norwegian foreign policy to serve Norwegian interests at all times in the short and long term. Therefore, these members would stress the importance of providing Norwegian foreign stations with the necessary resources to safeguard Norwegian citizens' interests in the event of unforeseen events. [[...]] Norwegian businesses and individuals in need can be happy that the budget of the Progress Party was not adopted last year in this Chamber – and to have some internal humor: the furniture budget of the foreign stations as well. As we remember, the Progress Party cut the budget for the foreign service by nearly 170 million. kr. It would mean poorer opportunities to help businesses and people out, either by having to lay down foreign stations or cut jobs with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e435	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for having taken up this interpellation and, at the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a positive approach in the response to the interpellant's interpellant. My impression is that the Stortinget gets in touch with these questions, in particular associated with some crisis as a reason for these questions to appear. This was probably also a bit of the background that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, when he started his career as Minister of Foreign Affairs, intended to reform the department. There may always be a need for continuous reform in a changing world, but also in this type of reform, there was probably a bit of a prelude to how the EEAS has been able to deal with crisis situations, among others. the river wave disaster in Asia in December 2004. We've got this illustrated also around bombings in London, in Sharm el Sheikh, and we've seen it in Madrid. We have other examples that have shown how we are able to handle not only the primary purpose of the EEAS, but also consular matters when these appear. It's been a couple of weeks since we saw parts of the foreign apparatus being tested as a result of the ash flow in the air from Iceland. Therefore, it is timely that these questions appear in the Stortinget. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs was inside, we have a significant device out there. 110 vacancies and 650 posted, plus more than 1,000 local employees, show that we have a significant strength. Of course, there is a need for change, because the world is changing continuously. Norway has an extremely outlying economy – highly export oriented. We are a more travelling people than ever before, perhaps even more than most other countries in the world. We also know that the evolution of history has been as it has been. The Iron Curtain is not of the nature that the political doorway role anymore has the same meaning as it had before. We see that business-to-business is now crucial to the development of the welfare state, as we have had a democratic wave in progress, which, fortunately, has produced the results it has given. At the same time, increased flexibility is required for the external service. We have a significant commitment in the area of aid and trade policy. We also see the need to perhaps highlight some regions of the world for the benefit of others who may need to be weighed down. Nevertheless, with reference to the previous case – the EU and EEA briefing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – I would also point out that Norway is not actually in the same situation as its Nordic friends. We are foreigners who are in a situation where we see that the European Union unites its forces in this area. While we see Sweden signaling a desire to step down, bearing in mind that the EU is caring for the consular Swedish interests, Norway is in a different situation, where perhaps even greater challenges are being imposed on our hands. I registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not suggest, but asked questions about the need for Norway to be present in all EU countries. It is certainly a relevant question, but on the other hand, we, foreign Norway, are not in the same situation as our Nordic friends are in. We don't have the same structures to play on as our neighboring countries in this context. Therefore, it is likely that there will be a need to continue to have a strong presence and a strong presence, as the interpellant was very much involved. Finally, there is little doubt that the use of the instrument will work in a cross-sectoral manner. We see how knowledge and knowledge of the cultures of other countries are the basis for success. It is enough to mention Telenor, Hydro, Statoil and Norwegian fishing industries, where knowledge of the market is the way to success.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e452	It has been interesting to follow the debate following the interplay of the representative, Højlund. It is, to this extent, concerned with what one might call the twice prerogative of the Government. The government's domain is foreign policy, but it is also the government's domain to distribute the business between the members of the Government. So it's entirely the government's responsibility, what we're discussing. At the same time, there is a long historical tradition that the Storting is more than interested in the design, content and arrangement of the service. The representative, Højlund, pointed out the enormous symbolic power that is just about Norway’s autonomous foreign service. I think we're going into a phase now that its significance is going to increase rather than decrease. Several of the perspectives drawn up in the debate will contribute to this. I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so conscious that we are now in an important phase in terms of the possibilities and potential of cooperation between the Nordic countries in the field of foreign stations. I fully agree that we should carefully assess what serves Norway’s interests in this regard, but the Stoltenberg report has created a platform that makes this natural for us to address now. At the same time, the organisation of a EEAS means that things are moving in the Nordic countries that are members of the EU. This means that we can face an important momentum in terms of opportunities for greater cooperation in some places between one or more other Nordic countries and Norway. I am pleased and will just underline and support the forward-looking attitude that I feel the Foreign Minister at that point expressed in his statement. We have an ambitious line in the Norwegian foreign service. We are present in many places, and we are present with very competent people. At the same time, from time to time, we experience that the external service is affected by what all social services in Norway are affected by, from time to time, the dissatisfaction of increasing expectations. I think the representative Gustavsen had some important points in how the EEAS is constantly meeting new demands, new expectations – not least from individuals who experience different kinds of consequences of their own actions, but also from Norwegian business out there. If I am to give the Foreign Minister some advice, which is perhaps unnecessary in this context, I would say that I think it will be even more necessary in the future for the EEAS to clarify expectations, for the EEAS to be clear about what individual citizens can expect, and for what one cannot expect, that one is clear about what business and other people you serve can expect, and what one cannot expect. Because I believe that the frustrations surrounding what the EEAS can and cannot fix will in the future become greater, as a result of the internationalisation and globalisation that is the starting point of the Höglund interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e461	There are now some interesting perspectives that have been drawn up in some articles. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will be asked to assess whether this is a debate he wants to invite Stortinget to – on what Norwegian citizens and Norwegian businesses can expect from services. I think we all agree that there are limits and that this is difficult. Every thing is unique. Every thing is different and has different starting points. This is something the Norwegian foreign service meets at work every day. It's challenging to discuss this in general, but this might also be a discussion we should at some point take a little bit more careful. I really don't have much more to add to the debate. I think I've got out of the debate what was a bit of the intention: to put the matter on the agenda, have a discussion also in the Storting on these questions. With regard to our budget cuts and changes, I see quite clearly – although we have respect for the government's responsibility to make the detailed changes – that when we propose adjustments to our budget proposals, we shall follow it by the next crossroads, if not with an order list, so at least with an example list of how this can be done, and at the same time take care of the priorities and the wishes we have expressed, so that we can see that there is a connection here, or if we believe that it is not a connection, but at least we can discuss them on such a basis. We'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e470	On the overall level, there is a lot of consensus, but the representative Gustavsen asked the interesting political question, and we got a vague answer. I would like to welcome that list to the Progress Party, I would say, over a cut of 100 million. NOK and more on what we in the U.S. call operation 02. There is the operation of the traditional foreign service — operation, not cut off in the programme, but operation. I would like to see the list, while guaranteeing the maintenance of the offer to the Nordics, business and travellers. That's what I'm meeting. I believe that we have now been promised that, and I will study the list with interest when it comes. My postal address is ready. It was said by the representative Kristiansen that managing crises tests how the EEAS works. I'm fully aware of that. No crisis is equal to the previous one. That's why we have to learn from the previous ones, but be prepared for something completely new. I experience that we have shown improved ability to meet it – from the war in Lebanon to other intermittent episodes. I want to use this opportunity to refer to the operational center we have now created in the U.D., which is a 24-hour staff, and which puts the Norwegians who contact an embassy outside the opening hours, in direct contact with a telephone that can provide answers and instructions. We also need to find room for that office within existing budgets, and we have found room for that by improving the efficiency of the EEAS. Then I fully agree with the representative, Højbräten, that it is important to clarify the expectations – what it is realistic to expect. I experience spending a lot of time on it, in fact, from the usual message that people have to take out travel insurance – an entirely elementary message, one in five who travels, doesn't. There are 22 million trips by the Nordics in the year, many of them abroad, many of them to demanding strokes. We'll keep doing that. It is a strength for the Government that this is also emphasised in the Great Government outside of a crisis, because it is clear that when the crisis strikes the individual, no matter how far out, one can theoretically say that there is no welfare state at that place, but the individual citizen, I think, has in the back margin to make quite clear expectations. We handle, as the representative Gustavsen said, 80,000 cases every year, roughly. This is a debate that really comes about in the extension of our foreign policy priorities and objectives. That is why it was a separate chapter in St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009. With the dual pro-rogative to which the representative Højbräten refers, and as we are aware, I also think there is a legitimate debate here, and I welcome the question from the inter-pellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e482	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e498	It is often discussed that the UN does not have to do all they have to do, but the UN has in its lifetime made at least one major difference in the world: there are 80 colonies smaller in the world after we got the UN, and 1 billion people have their maritime rights. This is a UN success. The last of the colonies is Western Sahara, which was under Spanish rule until 1975, and is now occupied by Morocco. For many of the observers in the area, this occupation is worse than the Spanish colonial power. For 30 years, the Saharans have lived in refugee camps in a land divided across a wall. This has been a neglected conflict, the shipping industry if there are 100 UN resolutions and an international court in The Hague that says they have international law on their side. That's about. 160 000 refugees in Algeria and 26 000 in Mauritania. Many of this conflict has recently escalated due to natural resources. We know that there are high-quality phosphates in the area. You might think there's oil and gas, but what you know is huge fish resources. Some estimate that there are 120 000 fishermen fishing in this area. That means that Morocco's settlement policy has worked out, because there are many more than what was the original population. The peace process is about to run into sand. At least it's not in a box; the entire population of the Western Sahara is stored in metal boxes in The Hague. This is a common European responsibility; it is a common European heritage, and it must be settled. We're constantly meeting the individuals who get into trouble because of this occupation. This is an area on which there is broad political agreement in Norway. In preparing for this debate, I clicked on the Support Committee of the Western Sahara's websites, where, in addition to very useful professional updates, there is also a collection of quotations and opinions on the conflict from a number of actors. All aspects of organisational life in Norway and almost all parties — including government parties — show clear support for Western Sahara. The support committee shall sum up its citation collection as follows: ‘From the Youth to Red of the Progress Party, from the Human-Ethical League to the Mosaic religious community in Trondheim; all agree that the Sahrawi people must participate in a referendum on the future of their country and that Morocco does not have a legitimate claim over Western Sahara.’ I raised the Western Sahara question with the Foreign Minister several times in the last growing-up period, and I have largely got the impression that he shares my concerns both about the situation of the population and about the relationship between commercial interests in the area. What strikes me is that broad political consensus should be the starting point for change, and that Norway can actually participate in ‘making a difference’, which I know the Minister for Foreign Affairs has as the goal for many of his foreign policy areas. That's what this interpellation is about. In 2007, the government of the Left took up the situation of Western Sahara, with a focus on human rights and trade. With regard to human rights, in that part of Western Sahara occupied by Morocco today, human rights violations have been perpetrated on a daily basis. There are serious violations of freedom of expression, freedom of organisation and freedom of movement. Journalists and editors who have raised the issue of seaworthiness have been imprisoned. Oppositional teachers and state officials have been moved from their homes, northwards to Morocco, and human rights activists have been imprisoned without a fair trial. According to the 2009 Refugee Account, more than 116 000 people are displaced only in this area. In terms of trade: Western Sahara has large natural resources, and throughout the period Morocco has provided the rich natural resources of Western Sahara. In recent years, Norwegian business has also become active in Western Sahara. The Norwegian fishing industry is said to be one of Morocco’s main partners, and as late as 2006, new Norwegian fighting projects were launched in the occupied areas — in addition to a number of agreements that have only been known to varying degrees. Now the exposure has been updated. Swedish TV, Norwegian TV and New Time have recently come with revelations. As I wrote in the interpolation text: ‘On several occasions in recent years, we have been exposed to Norwegian commercial interests in Western Sahara.’ What characterizes these revelations are unclear images, complicated owner structures, juxtapositions and adaptations. Let me do some examples. Example 1: Last year we experienced a debate related to the investment of the oil fund in seven fertilising companies that collect phosphates from the area, and an example with boat transport companies located in Agder. Example 2: We got revelations on Swedish television and on the NRK that fish oil from non-regulated fishing outside Western Sahara goes to a Norwegian company and goes on to, among other things. production of omega-3 pills. Example 3: There were revelations of customs yokes related to the fish oil case, which led to the NHO president leaving, and we've been swirling up a number of cross-links between different companies, all as one, in different ways and to different degrees, involved in trade in the area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not recommend such an exposure. Among the companies we see are engaged, we also find state-owned companies, or companies where the state has heavy holdings. Among other things, when the salmon feed producer, the subsidiary of the partly state-owned Cermaq, signed a contract for the purchase of fish oil from GC Rieber Oils, the current Minister of Finance was even the director of Cermaq. I expect that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will explain in his reply the history of various agreements concluded by Norwegian companies that concern Western Sahara, and especially companies in which the State owns. I think that's important. It may be argued that it is the Minister of Industry's table, but it is undoubtedly a foreign policy issue. Customs rules are important enough and rules must be followed. But this interpellation is about something far greater than a customs fraud case. It is about trade based on the contribution of Western Sahara, which, in my view, contributes to an enormous profit-gathering and undermines the entire peace process. The examples we've seen, I don't hesitate to characterize as "almost unconscious trade" in Norwegian business in a conflict area. I am therefore keen to hear how the Minister of Foreign Affairs will contribute to more clarity as to the fact that it is unacceptable to Norwegian commercial involvement in Western Sahara, and there is a lot of evidence that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs for that part, have not been clear enough. Today we remember Bjørnson. It's Bjørnson's anniversary. I believe this is really a matter he would have come to engage strongly in if he had been with us today. This would be to take up the spirit that Bjørnson stood for in speaking the occupied minority's fight against occupying powers. My question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that he here wants to use his power to make a difference. The left has been clear that we will recognise the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic as a maritime state, and put pressure on both Morocco and the French authorities so that the legitimate demands of the Sahrawi Sea regime can be met. At the same time, Norway must press Morocco to respect the right of these citizens to freedom of organisation, freedom of expression and freedom of movement. Here the Foreign Minister can make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e546	Let me first thank the representative for an important and timely interplay. The left has been concerned about Western Sahara for many years and the situation of the Sahrawi population. It's an engagement I value, but at the same time, we need to have a realistic relationship with what Norwegian power means when it comes to clearing up this complicated situation. As the representative is aware, this government reinforced the recommendation to the Norwegian business community regarding the activities of the Western Sahara. Norway is now renouncing its activities in the area and it is positive that most Norwegian enterprises are following this advice. Why is this so important? Well, because Norwegian companies affect the social development in which they operate, and they have a responsibility. The government’s focus on corporate social responsibility is to clarify what this responsibility is and how best to take care of it. Our expectations for Norwegian companies and the role and responsibilities of the authorities are described in St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009, Corporate social responsibility in a global economy, presented to the Stortinget last year. Overall, it is the Government’s view that industrial activities can contribute to development, but special circumstances will nevertheless suggest that Norwegian companies should refrain from financial involvement in certain countries or areas. This may apply to business activity in areas where there is conflict or where the humanitarian and human rights situation is particularly serious. Western Sahara, which has been on the United Nations agenda for a long time, is such an area, and Norwegian businesses are well aware of the position of Norwegian authorities. Otherwise, let me add, formally, that there are no sanctions imposed on the UN Security Council in this situation. Over 40 years after the establishment of Western Sahara as a non-self-governing area under the provisions of the United Nations Charter for territories which have not achieved independence, the conflict over the future status of the area remains unresolved. The UN Security Council assumes that a political solution must imply the right of self-determination for the people of Western Sahara and has encouraged the parties to direct negotiations without preconditions. These are the demands we support. Norway’s consistent line is to support the United Nations Security Council’s requirement to allow for the conditions of self-determination of the Western Sahara population, and to emphasise the need for respect for human rights. In this context, it is important to refrain from actions that may help to legitimise the current situation in the area. As Morocco does not exercise internationally recognised sovereignty over Western Sahara, it does not initially have the right to use its resources as if they were their own. International law requires that the use of resources in such areas must be in accordance with the wishes and interests of the local population. Therefore, if Morocco in the Western Sahara facilitates trade, investment, resource use and other commercial activities that are not in accordance with the interests of the local population, it may be contrary to international law. For other countries, it will also be able to represent a violation of international law if the State provides support for resource use that is not in line with the interests of the local population. Therefore, Norway does not provide public support for such activities in Western Sahara. What about the activities of private companies in Western Sahara? Today, as I said, these are not affected either by national law or by international sanctions. It cannot be excluded, however, that such activities may also be regarded as a violation of international law and, where appropriate, as a contribution to infringements of international law. However, much remains to be done before this can be considered to be the case and requires the conduct of the company in violation of international humanitarian law. We have no basis for deciding whether this has happened in any of the specific cases where Norwegian companies, regardless of state ownership, have been involved in Western Sahara. The government’s deterrence of industrial activities in Western Sahara is therefore primarily a recommendation to companies to discharge social responsibility. Therefore, although there is no legislation or formal requirements, I believe that Norwegian companies want to follow the clear advice of the authorities to refrain from any food exposure in Western Sahara. And I believe that the recent conclusions of a Norwegian company, based on the detection of trade with Western Sahara, show that it is being taken seriously. Not only do we authorities, but also increasingly customers, investors and employees, generally expect companies to exercise such social responsibility. It also has to do with the reputation of companies. And more specifically in our case: they do not engage in Western Sahara. Norway is among the countries that have gone most in emphasising that natural resources from Western Sahara, among others, are: at sea must not be exploited in a way that does not benefit the population of the non-autonomous territory. The government's dissuade of industrial activities in Western Sahara has been available since 2007 on our websites government.no. All those who turn to the U.D. for advice are informed of the opinion of the authorities. The paper on social responsibility, where the government's dissuade of financial involvement in Western Sahara is explicitly mentioned, is also available online for business and others. Since 2007, the parties to the conflict in Western Sahara have been through four negotiating rounds, with no results yet. Informal meetings shall prepare a fifth round of negotiations, but discussions between the Parties in August 2009 and February 2010 have so far led to no movement. The parties are far from each other and it is therefore unclear when a fifth round of negotiations can take place. There is still agreement in the Security Council that, among other things: through the peace operation MINURSO, must continue its efforts to maintain the truce and proceed with reliable measures through family reunification, under the supervision of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Norway supports the work done in this respect, and last year we increased the allocation for this purpose. Unfortunately, these measures have a temporary limited impact. Several tens of thousands of refugees are in line to make use of the visitation scheme, and with today’s closure it may be up to 20 years before all those who so wish have been able to benefit from the measures. At the initiative of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Morocco and Algeria have tried, but not clearly, to reach an agreement on a mine clearance agreement and the opening of the border in order to increase the volume of exchanges also in land transport. According to reports, there are still violations of human rights in Western Sahara. In particular, freedom of expression and assembly is restricted and police officers engage in abuses against supporters of independence and human rights defenders. The Moroccan authorities do not reject the violation of human rights, but on their side they accuse Polisario of provoking abuses in order to use them against Morocco. Several reports also point to the problems of freedom of movement for the Sahrawis in the refugee camps in Algeria. Without a visa, the refugees cannot leave the camps. A lack of solution also affects the region in a broader perspective. The Western Sahara conflict has high indirect costs in terms of lost political and economic relations between the Maghreb countries. According to a 2008 study by the Peterson Institute for International Economics in the United States, the region loses nearly $9 billion annually in foreign trade as a result of the conflict. North Africa is one of Europe's neighbourhoods. Unstability and the lack of economic development in this region have a direct impact on our own continent. The parties and neighbouring countries, but also we in Europe will therefore be able to find a solution. Norway supports the negotiations under the UN regime which started in 2007. Let me also make it clear here, as I have done in the past in Stortinget, that when the Government uses the same vocabulary as the UN Security Council and the UN General Assembly in the report of Western Sahara, that is. This is because Norway is not unilaterally trying to advance the outcome of the peace efforts and the self-determination process under way under the auspices of the United Nations. It is important that the international community stands united in its pressure on the parties to reach a lasting solution to the conflict as quickly as possible. We are working through our embassies in Rabat, Algeria and the UN Delegation towards central networks to promote the UN track and encourage the parties to engage in direct negotiations without preconditions in order to achieve a political solution that the parties can accept. Both the parties and the UN know that if there is something they want Norway to contribute, we will be positive about this. I take up the importance of getting speedy negotiations going every time I talk to my colleagues from Morocco and Algeria. Norway's financial support for the Sahrawi population has also increased during this government. Our efforts are mainly to remedy the situation in the refugee camps in Tindouf, where the humanitarian situation is very difficult. The government set aside 11.9 million in 2009. available for various humanitarian measures. The Norwegian aid is mainly intended for the liaising activities of Sahrawi families living in the western Sahara and the refugee camps in Algeria, for the improvement of the nutritional situation of the refugee camps and for the clearance of mines and other unexploded explosives in the Western Sahara. So let there be no doubt: the government is clear when it comes to Western Sahara. We support the UN line and make ourselves available to contribute to a solution. We have clearly expressed our dissatisfaction with business activities in Western Sahara, a dissuade that is widely available, and we take a clear position on the issue of corporate social responsibility through St.meld. No 10 and the follow-up of this, as for example open the door in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e599	I thank you for the answer, and I really don't doubt the common commitment in this room to Western Sahara. I also do not doubt the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But there are two things I want to ask questions about. One applies to the concepts. We in the left probably go further by using the definition of occupation of areas. The Foreign Minister’s argument to adhere to the definition of ‘non-self-governing’ put forward here is the aim of reaching the fastest possible solution. It really hasn't worked in 30 years. This situation is more fixed than it has ever been, and it's not going to be better when you find more natural resources, it's just getting worse. Baker, who was the last person who tried to make a solution here, threw in the cards two to three years ago and said he couldn't do this. Maybe there should be some grip in the international world where you put the right word on this, that it's an occupation. The second is whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs could plan to organise a small seminar in the Government and inform about the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we were sure that the state-owned companies too were informed. The Minister of Finance has now become Minister of Finance, so he cannot learn this, but there are many who are performing duties on our behalf – a message of ownership, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said – but who have still not understood what they are doing in this occupation of Western Sahara. So it's quite clear that it hasn't reached all Norwegian companies. Maybe it's not enough to keep it on your website, at least when you also see that there are state-owned Norwegian companies going in and doing things like this. That means that the information has not been spread well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e611	The situation is complex, as the representative says. I'm not sure the use of words on this is going to decide and make it less complex. It has been Norway's assessment, along with the countries that think like us, that we should deal with concepts that are central to the United Nations and not open up a new internal debate in the United Nations that weakens the pressure that we can legitimately put on the parties. We do not want to unilaterally influence or foreshadow the outcome of the peace efforts and the process of self-determination under the auspices of the United Nations, which is enshrined in the Security Council resolutions. That is why we are choosing to mention this case complex in accordance with the wording used by the UN Security Council and the UN General Assembly. I think it is important in Norway's consistent support of the role of the UN in this field that we stick to it. So I don't think there's a need for a seminar in the government. The rules here are such that no law has been passed, no sanctions have been imposed by the UN, but there is a clear recommendation on which to base. I believe, as I said in my post, that what has happened in the last few weeks in connection with one significant Norwegian company's involvement in Western Sahara, shows that putting itself beyond those rules has a significant risk of reputation. If not all the companies that were supposed to be in this field have got it over the last few weeks, well at least we're going to have to make sure to repeat it and remember it. As far as corporate social responsibility is concerned, it was very clearly stated in the paper and the reading here that the principles we set up, the expectations we have, of course, apply quite equally, regardless of what state ownership it might be in individual companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e620	First, I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing a conflict that needs more attention, and in particular for addressing the question of clarity in relation to the fact that it is unacceptable to Norwegian commercial involvement in Western Sahara. I think that's very good. The situation in Western Sahara and how Norwegian companies act in the area, it is important that we discuss in Stortinget. The Western Sahara is referred to as the interpellant, as Africa's last unresolved colonial issue and is treated, among other things. also by the United Nations as exactly that. The Western Sahara has a rather demanding history, from being a Spanish colony to Moroccan forces moving into the area in 1975. The country was at war for 16 years, until the United Nations negotiated a ceasefire agreement between Morocco and the Liberation Movement Front Polisario in 1991. It was negotiated subject to a referendum on the status of the area. It has never been kept, despite the fact that repeated UN resolutions have called for self-determination for the people of Western Sahara. The situation of the Zahrawi people is characterized by isolation and oppression. Thousands of people have been driven away, and human rights activists and political activists are systematically persecuted and imprisoned. Western Sahara is rich in natural resources, especially fish and phosphate, as well as oil and gas in the area. So, we're talking about an area that's very valuable and also attractive to the international business community. In Norway, we have clearly said that we do not advise Norwegian companies to invest in the area, and we have been clear on the great social responsibility of the Norwegian companies, among others. through the communication on corporate social responsibility in a global economy, as mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. What I think is a challenge with regard to the social responsibility of some Norwegian companies is that they simply don't take it. We have had several examples over the years of just Norwegian companies that have been operating in Western Sahara which, in my opinion, are not acceptable. And the question is, what do we do? This is where I feel that we need a discussion. What do we do when companies do not take responsibility? And how are we going to make them more aware of their actual responsibilities? Today, I think it can work a bit like this, that when it is up to each one to contact to get advice, it may not be everyone who makes contact – to hear something they really don't want to hear. That's why I think we should consider whether it's possible to be more proactive towards companies that you know are in the area. Therefore, I also believe that there must be room to discuss more instruments against companies that do not relate to either international or ethical principles, without necessarily having all the answers to what should be the concrete instruments. But I think we need a discussion in Norway about that. Norway should be clear about its support for the Zahrawi people, and we should be clear that we never accept that anyone will profit from war and that countries will make arrangements. The conflict in the Western Sahara is in many ways a somewhat forgotten conflict. That is not the question at the top of the international agenda, despite the fact that the situation there is quite unsustainable. Now it is said that there are more organisations in Norway that are very active and that the media have also begun to focus more on the conflict. And that's good. But it is also a major problem that it is almost impossible for international observers, human rights activists, journalists and parliamentarians to get into the area. I myself was in Western Sahara in 2005 and received a very short visit – one day at a time – when I was thrown out of the area along with four other law laws, as well as the Moroccan authorities arresting people whom we had planned to meet. I think it is important that we, as parliamentarians, contribute to keeping the debate on Western Sahara up. It is important that we put this conflict on the agenda – as it is today. So once again, I want to thank the interpellant for asking an important question, and I hope that more people will take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e639	And more people are taking part in the debate. The next person to take part in the debate is the representative Peter N. Myhre, then the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e642	Let me begin by thanking the representative Skei Grande for once again addressing the matter of Western Sahara. I would also like to thank the Western Sahara Support Committee for keeping our attention focused on this issue and this area. I also think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was ready to speak. Despite the fact that perhaps more than we parliamentarians do, the Foreign Minister has a complicated balance to go, I think we can establish that the Government in this matter has a total collapse behind it. On the website of the Western Sahara Support Committee, I read a while back that this may be the least political disagreement in Norway, and I think that is right. Thus, no international sanctions have been adopted in the case of Western Sahara, but both the United Nations and the Hague Court have condemned Morocco's occupation. This is to a far greater extent a local struggle for natural resources than a struggle for the rights of the people of Western Sahara, and that is what has created the tragic situation we are now seeing. As long as the current conflict is ongoing, it is important that Norway has a strong voice for Western Sahara. The country's population suffers from oppression and the absence of human rights. The aim must be to stop the abuses in the annexed Western Sahara, to respect human rights and to clarify the status of the area. Finally, it is important that Norwegian industry does not now contribute to the enrichment of the resources of Western Sahara in the presence of Norwegian enterprises and that Norwegian industry follows closely the instructions or recommendations or signals of the Government in the case of Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e651	Thank you very much to the Left for their long-standing commitment to Western Sahara and for democracy and human rights in Western Sahara. Also a great thank you, as the representative Peter N. Myhre had in mind, to the Western Sahara Support Committee for the job they do in Norway, and the job that is also done internationally for Western Sahara. It is worth drawing attention back to the time when Western Sahara was a Spanish colony – Rio de Oro – where Polisario finally fought a struggle for liberation, a bloody struggle for independence. It was crowned with victory, but immediately after that Morocco occupied as much as three-quarters of the Western Sahara. The last quarter, now retained, is up to the border of Mauritania, which is very scarce, consisting largely of desert landscapes and rocks. Now, when you hear how Western Sahara is referred to in the UN, it's interesting that the legal status of the territory is that it's Spain that is still administrative, because Spain, as a former colonizer, was unable to fulfil its responsibility to give the territory self-determination. But it's also quite obvious that it's de facto Morocco that is administrative power now. It's also another international parallel, and that's the wall that goes through the entire Western Sahara, which is 2,700 km. It's a wall that's four times longer than the wall we see in Israel and the Palestinian territories. There are also some of the world's largest minefields in Western Sahara, which are intended to separate the quarter of the territory under the control of Polisario, and the last 75 pst., which is under the control of Morocco. It is also true that when Morocco invaded Western Sahara, a large part of the population, perhaps as much as a place between 120 000 and 170 000, was moved to Zahrawi refugee camps in Tindouf, Algeria. In total, more than 200,000 people from Western Sahara live outside the borders of the country, mostly in refugee camps. It is quite obvious that Morocco has a desire for a settlement policy that is very similar to what you see, among other things. in today's China with regard to the Uighurs and Tibetans. The people of Western Sahara are being displaced, new ones are coming from Morocco, huge tax advantages are being given to both companies and individuals who want to develop the economy of Western Sahara and settle in Western Sahara. It means again that the desire for a future referendum will be very problematic. It will in fact mean that Morocco will demand that everyone who lives in Western Sahara at a given time be able to vote, while they are actually illegal immigrants. Should there be a question of referendum, it will be very important that it is the original population – the people of Western Sahara – who are given the opportunity to vote. So to the human rights situation and – as the interpellant also pulls up – a very acute human rights situation. Not enough of such a large proportion of the population being displaced out of the country, with the exception of freedom of movement, forced displacement – many against their will – but there are also examples of systematic prisons and deprivation of freedom of expression. I just have to get into the post of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen, whom I want to say I support, but who at the same time I ask some questions, when she speaks of a de facto boycott. I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has gone as far as possible when there are no UN sanctions against the country, when Norwegian companies are not advised to engage in Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e670	It is a very important matter for the representative of the Skei Grande to take up. It is positive and very important that the Storting gets the opportunity to discuss such matters. We are now seeing a development in which the demand for business to take on social responsibility is gaining increasing support for opinion. It is therefore important that the Storting discuss these questions and have an offensive position on this matter. Morocco's occupation of the former Spanish colony of Western Sahara has gone apart for over 30 years. Further peace processes under the auspices of the UN and the African Union, as well as innumerable resolutions in the Security Council, have not been able to bring the conflict to an end. Since 1975, Morocco has been neglecting the resolutions of the Security Council and the UN General Assembly on Sahraviane's right to self-determination. Morocco also refuses to comply with agreements with the United Nations on a referendum. Sahrawiane in refugee camps in Algeria lir under inadequate humanitarian aid, and frustration is increasing over being a forgotten part of the world community. In this situation, Morocco and foreign industrial interests are exploiting irreplaceable natural resources and breaking down the life base of Western Sahara. This is completely unacceptable. It is particularly unfortunate that shared state companies have involved themselves in this trade. It shouldn't be that they only take social responsibility when they get into the media. This is an example of the need to discuss the issue of social responsibility in a new owner’s message, as set out in Soria Moria II. But social responsibility should be the same, of course, for private companies as for whole and shared state companies. We do not currently have binding international standards or national guidelines and sanctions for private companies, but we still have to expect private companies to take their social responsibility seriously, and at least follow advice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Exploitation on the resource base of poor countries with an oppressed population is one of the worst impacts of economic imperialism. There is therefore reason to praise the media for taking up this matter and helping to reveal and end a part of it. It is our responsibility to develop laws and regulations that can reduce the extent of such exploitation of natural resources in poor countries. The representative Skei Grande also takes up the ethical guidelines of the State pension fund abroad. We still have to discuss these and improve them. But there might be reason to remind you that SV was closest to being led out when the party raised the issue of ethical guidelines for the fund. In view of this, a lot has happened, but it is important to move on. Norway is a rich country with extensive trade. It obliges us to be at the forefront when it comes to implementing social responsibility in both state enterprises and private enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e693	Let me first thank the representative Skei Grande for the interpellation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. The Christian People's Party has a strong commitment to Western Sahara and the rights of the Zahrawi people. This is a conflict over an occupied area over which Morocco took control after the end of the Spanish colonial regime. It happened without coverage in international law and the UN. I have noticed with interest the wording of the Foreign Minister's reply today, and it is important to clarify whether the Government considers Western Sahara to be an occupied area, or not. For my part, I have great difficulties in understanding the fundamental difference between the Palestinian territories, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs clearly designates as occupied, and the Western Sahara, which has been under Moroccan occupation for 30 years, contrary to clear decisions in the UN and the Court of Justice. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we support the call for the Zahrawi people to participate in a referendum on the future of their country. Norway must have a clear position here. The second aspect that I want to highlight is the human rights situation. It's serious. In a comparison of the human rights situation in all countries and autonomous areas of the world in the report Economic Freedom in the World: 2009 Annual Report, Western Sahara is coming out worse than Afghanistan, Iraq and the Palestinian territories in terms of political rights and civil liberties. The Christian People's Party wants a stronger commitment to the Norwegian international forum on human rights violations in Western Sahara. The third side of the Western Sahara conflict is what the interpellant stressed most: the regulation of international economic relations with the region. Here, there is an incomprehensible gap between official speech and commercial practice. Why are there ever new revelations that Norwegian companies, including companies in which the state is owned, contribute to Morocco's exploitation of Western Sahara's resources, even though the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has officially said that they are dissuading such economic relations with Western Sahara? In 2007, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs clarified the Norwegian policy on this issue: ‘Norway sees it as important to refrain from actions which could be interpreted as legitimising the situation in Western Sahara. In order to prevent trade, investment, resource use and other industrial activities which are not in accordance with the interests of the local population and may therefore be contrary to international law, the Norwegian authorities advise against such activities.» In sharp contrast to this, a number of Norwegian commercial exposures are precisely linked to the extraction of resources from the disputed area. It is critical when the EU buys rights from Morocco, so that the EU fishing fleet takes out resources in the sea outside Western Sahara. However, the list of Norwegian-side controversial exposures is also worrying: In 2008, it was known that the company Yara imported phosphate from Western Sahara. Last autumn, it became known that the State pension fund abroad has invested in seven international fertiliser companies responsible for large parts of the phosphate export from Western Sahara. Swedish TV revealed in March this year that Norwegian tankers transported fish oil to Norway from Western Sahara. Recently, it was found that the Norwegian company GC Rieber Oils imported fish oil from occupied Western Sahara and brought up the wrong country of origin. Among those who have bought this fish oil from GC Rieber Oils is the salmon feed producer, EWOS. It's a subsidiary of Cermaq, where the Norwegian state has 43.5 pst. of the shares. There are many concerns that Norwegian companies can be involved in legitimising Morocco's occupation and extracting resources from Western Sahara, and it is not easy to see that this contributes in any positive way to the peace and self-government process. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether not just these examples I have mentioned here are some form of resource extraction in Western Sahara which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its opinion of November 2007 believes must be contrary to international law. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for both clearer speech and stronger action from the Government in this matter. We cannot rule out that the practices we have seen from individual Norwegian companies may be related to the lack of clear enough speech from the Norwegian authorities. Norway needs to contribute more actively to resolving the conflict, improving the human rights situation, and we need to ensure better that Norwegian companies comply with international law on issues affecting the questionable withdrawal of resources in Western Sahara. The Christian People's Party is united with those groups that are working internationally and here in Norway for the cause of Western Sahara, and I am pleased that the interpellant has brought this important issue of human rights and the issue of international law to the attention of the Great Britain and the public through the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e737	I would like to thank the debate and thank you for the fact that almost all the parties have chosen to participate. I think that's important for those who fight their freedom fights locally, and I think it's important for all those who fight this case in Norway. I believe that the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten had a good rhetorical point in view of the fact that here we have a people who are displaced, who live in refugee camps, who are hidden behind a wall of an occupying power – where the only group who speaks their case is a liberation army – who is given their freedom of expression and who is exposed to a settlement policy. It's very similar to some elements in another conflict, where you're much stronger in the characteristics. Me and Left also fight a lot for the Palestinians' cause, but I see no reason to be milder in the statements here. I support: According to my knowledge, everyone, the Labour Party, the AUF, LO, the Center Party, SV – yes, you don't get any closer to the Government – chooses to use the word "occupation". Nor is it true that the UN does not use the word ‘occupation’. In UN Resolution 34/37 they ask Morocco to terminate the occupation of Western Sahara. So, the UN's soul uses the concept of occupation. If you do not want to use the word occupation, do you want to use the term "non-self-guided"? Then I wonder what role Morocco has in that area. What diplomatic term is used in Morocco? Is that the term "visitable"? Or is the other diplomatic term used in Morocco in what is happening? I had wanted a government that was behind what the Workers' Party, the AUF, the LO, the SV and the Center Party have actually adopted, namely to use the concept of occupation, say what is true, and pushe on this matter even more. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should at least know that he has a total stature behind him, an overall commitment from the NGO part of Norway, where very many people spend a lot of their time fighting for this matter. You have all the political parties behind you, and then you can be involved and make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e750	I will also commend the interpellant, and I will also join her in emphasising that there is a situation here that deserves increased attention, both in Norway and internationally. Norway wants to work to contribute to it. I believe that this government's focus on the matter in many contexts has contributed to it and will continue to do so. Now we just have to make sure that we do not turn this debate into a Norwegian discussion about what concept we use of the situation. When, over many years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has chosen to stick to the wording repeatedly used by the UN General Assembly, namely to refer to Western Sahara as a non-autonomous area, it has been a Norwegian line that we have been on that course. But I would like to take a new round of internal discussions with us and ask our UN experts to look at where that issue stands, and if you think it might be good for the matter that we are opening a debate if we are going to call this occupation. But as far as I'm concerned, the UN General Assembly has held to that concept through repeated resolutions and has not approved the existence of an annunciation. Having occupied a status and special responsibility under the Geneva Conventions, and that is a situation that has not been assessed to date. So I would warn you that we deduce our agreement that this situation is unsustainable, that it must stop, that the UN must succeed in its efforts and reach agreement, to become a discussion of that concept. But I would like to take a new round on where the matter stands right now. In the case of national companies, it is therefore so formal that the companies that were to have activities in Western Sahara are not currently subject to either national law or international sanctions. Now, as I said in my post, it cannot be ruled out that the activities of private companies can be regarded as a violation of international law, possibly contributing to violations of international law. But as we judge it, much is needed before this can be considered to be the case, and that requires a behaviour from the company that is contrary to humanitarian law. It's a serious charge. We have no basis for deciding whether this has happened in any of the specific cases where Norwegian companies have been involved in Western Sahara, and the government's dissuade of industrial activities is therefore primarily a recommendation to the companies. I think the public attention that has been in recent times shows the weight in it. Finally, I would like to say that the Minister of Industry is fully involved in this matter. It was Cermaq himself who contacted the department on 16 March, after it was found that it was traded with fish oil from Western Sahara in the Cermaq-controlled company, EMUS. Cermaq decided on 9 April to close this trade, in the light of the official position of the Norwegian authorities, that trade, investment, resource use and other activities which are not in accordance with the interests of the local population were to be abolished. So that's the state of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e761	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e788	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e797	I have the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for two representatives from the representatives of Solvent Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and Ib Thomsen. One proposal concerns the inclusion of e-books in the VAT exemption for literature. The second is the proposal to provide for VAT exemptions for newspapers distributed electronically. Both proposals will, as the President said, be dealt with together here today. The issue of proposals is highly topical. Although it is difficult to predict the exact distribution of e-books, there is hardly any doubt that the market for e-books will be significant in the long term. The same applies to newspapers distributed electronically. It is therefore very timely to clarify policy in relation to the framework factors to be applied to publications on an electronic platform. Unfortunately, we are not getting that here today, and I regret that. All eleven associations and stakeholder organisations met to consult on these proposals, and I have received a lot of enquiries about the subject matter we are now discussing. This says that the interest around this case is very large and important, and I can go as far as to say that it is crucial for a number of actors, cf. yesterday's Class struggle, where editors from both Ashehug and Gyldendal said that the e-book launch is now being postponed once again. The outcome of the hearing was very clear. Everyone who met said that VAT on e-books and electronic distributed newspapers is the wrong way to go. I fully agree with that. It is therefore sad that an overall financial committee has not succeeded in agreeing on as well as a sentence – or at least one intention – in this matter. I also allow myself to say that I think it is strange and perhaps a little cowardly that the government parties are not willing to be clear on what they mean either. The comments in the case are unusually brief. I believe that the various parties will explain their views later in this debate, and I will therefore now present the view of the Left. Let me first say that it makes sense to sit at a hearing when the Norwegian Association of Authors goes so far as to say that if e-books do not receive VAT exemptions, it means a gradual reduction of one of the most important tools in Norwegian literature policy over the last 40 years. Several good arguments for VAT exemptions can be mentioned and can be found in the setting. Exempting physical books at the last stage of turnover from VAT has been the legal state since the mid-1960s. The justification for this exemption has long been linguistic and cultural policy — all the time when Norway, as it is now, is a small language community, and the exemption from VAT has been an effective tool in the fields of literature production, literature translation and reading. In the 1990s, Stortinget decided that parallel editions of books published as audiobooks should also be exempted from VAT, for example. in the case of groups with difficulty in reading. In other words, linguistic and cultural policy considerations have traditionally weighed more heavily than purely fiscal considerations in this respect. In the Left's view, this should still be the case, and I regret that the majority do not agree with this. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that the main reasons why the Government will not include e-books and electronically distributed newspapers in the existing VAT exemption include: is to take account of the revenue of the State and that such a derogation from the legislation could give rise to demarcation problems. The left simply does not agree with these objections. In our opinion, it is fundamentally inconsistent to have different VAT rules for the same product – in this case text – depending on the packaging of the product or on the technical platform on which the product is presented. We should have a VAT system that is flexible enough to address technological developments and legislation that is as neutral as possible. The majority say that the Ministry sees the argument about 'equal treatment for similar products', but they do not. With regard to the demarcation issue, it is clear that there must be some demarcations, but several of those who met at the hearing pointed out that this should not be inconvenient to be implemented in practice. Among other things, the question of delimitation was also a theme when printed books received a VAT exemption in the 1960s, but this has subsequently proved not to be a major problem. Of course, the Ministry, in consultation with stakeholders, could continue to work on the question of demarcation – if the majority had only wanted to. It seems that most participants in the social debate have realized that putting VAT on electronic publishing – as the Government stands for – is pushing both the publishing and media industry to live in the past. It is, in my opinion, erkekonservative, and I am surprised that the government will appear like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e820	This is a theme that has created commitment. The government parties see that technological development creates new opportunities, but also new challenges for Norwegian books and Norwegian writing culture. They also see that the need for a level playing field between foreign and Norwegian players providing digital services to Norwegian consumers is a key issue for the industry. This is a theme that has been described in the settings comments. The Ministry of Finance has also started work to ensure a level playing field in relation to VAT. This is a work that we face the outcome of. With regard to the one proposal, on the exemption of VAT for e-newsmen, it is also relevant to point out that the Media Support Committee will complete its work in the autumn of 2010. One might imagine several possible instruments that should be given priority to each other. I read the comment so that the Right also agrees with the government parties that one should give priority to those instruments after the sample has completed its work. Value added tax is one of the most important carriers of the welfare state, with revenues to the community of nearly DKK 200 billion a year. Generally, we should be careful with exemptions that erode the legislation. In this way, the administrative burden of managing the charging system is lost, and the departments and other administrators concerned are becoming best acquainted with the area, who are given the opportunity to support different purposes above the expenditure side of the budget, rather than the tax system itself being the provider of cultural policy or policies in other areas. However, in some areas it is right to use the tax system as an incentive to promote changes that we want, as we do. have done with the one-off fee, or as we do for that matter by having several different VAT rates – a general rate of 25 pst., matmoms of 14 pst. and low rate of 8 pst. for certain purposes. I understand the need for equal treatment of products, regardless of how they are distributed. However, the issue of VAT exemptions should be part of the overall tax regime that is dealt with once a year. The size determines how much we should support cultural purposes. Should we support more than today, and in that case is increased VAT exemption the right means of action? Or are we going to distribute the aid in another way? And is it the most important thing for the industry to establish arrangements through VAT legislation, or is it equally important with other types of schemes from the cultural budget? These are issues I think it is important to look at in a context, and it is also necessary to consider the consequences of a tax exemption for other areas. In that case, how are we going to treat e-books, e-news and exemptions from other electronic goods? The working party sees good arguments for non-discrimination between e-books and e- newspapers. However, I think it is good for us to see this in the context of the budget as a whole. The consideration of a proposal which has budgetary implications in the middle of the financial year also makes it more demanding to see differences in the parties' alternative budgets. Last autumn, the unusual situation arose that the bourgeois parties were united to spend less money from the Pension Fund than the Government had allowed them to spend. But if we take into account that proposal for increased expenditure that comes during the financial year, I am not sure that it is an image that is still standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e835	It is tempting to start the post with one minute's silence. I am afraid that we have lost the Norwegian language, the Norwegian literature, Norwegian authors, Norwegian publishers and Norwegian bookstores, which is the expertise in this area. It is an industry that will now face a lot of hardship and strong competition from abroad. The Norwegian language will face strong competition from abroad, especially from the English language. I would also like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on having now partially taken over as Minister of Culture. He's a prominent actor in this important cultural field. We have a prime minister who is modern and boasts that he is using iPad and is active on social media. At the same time, we see that the government is old-fashioned and a little forward-looking in terms of assimilation of paperbook, audiobook and the forward-looking book as e-book. It doesn't matter that the Government and the Storting will follow in time. We have a lot of examples that this is not the case. Then I just want to bring out color-tv, which was a trial project for many, many years. During the hearing, it emerged from a unanimous industry how important it is to equalise paper, audio and e-books. A large-scale launch of Norwegian e-books was launched in March after neither the Minister of Culture nor the Minister of Finance had heard the book people's request to make the e-book VAT-free. SV’s representative Lars Egeland has stated that the proposal will not solve anything. No, we're talking about a system introduced in the 1960s that has made Norway one of those countries in Europe where you read the most paper books. Then you talk about this being a cost to the state. No, you want to move those that read from the paper over to the e-- that's zero proceeds. After today's debate, I understand that there is still an unsustainable cultural policy situation – an incomprehensible discrimination against printed and electronic versions. The justification is tax-technical and is assessed by these so-called economists. This is cultural policy. This is not a charging policy. Central cultural values are at risk and the Minister of Culture is placed on the sideline. Norwegian literature and Norwegian language are threatened in a digital future where VAT exemptions will be lacking for the modern and central form of distribution. This will be the beginning of the construction of literary Norway. Do not come and say that the government parties have not been warned, both politically and by the entire industry. The newspaper industry also faces major challenges a day with new technological developments. The newspapers could probably have needed a handshake, or some newspapers might have needed a handshake. In order to create innovation, it is necessary to secure revenues in this digital future. An e-news on PDF file sent to subscribers around the country is more expensive than if the paper is printed on paper and sent by post. In my view, it is also an environmental perspective that we should take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e852	The President would point out that the commitment taken into account, the President had expected the representative to also make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e855	He does now! I will deal with the proposals that progress is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e862	It's noted. The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e865	The government of Away has a proud cultural history when not only introduced the industry agreement, which was necessary, but was also predictable enough to exempt books from VAT. In other words, the reason was language policy. It was desired that the growing generation read books in Norwegian, that authors could sell books in Norwegian without it being too expensive for those who would read and buy. Those were good arguments in the 1960s. In 2010 they are even better. In 2010, many young people read Harry Potter in English, and they read other books in English. They get used to an English reading culture -- it's more and more common. In addition, when you can download the books, you will have a situation where young people do not have problems getting access to English-language books. And there's also a lot of people who say that it's in the original language that books are best. That will be the challenge for the Norwegian writing language. It is more expensive for Norwegian authors, for Norwegian publishers, for Norwegian book readers to buy Norwegian books, while it is cheaper to buy copies or other, less good books from abroad. A whole culture-Norway loses when the Center Party forgets its cultural-historical tradition and its cultural-historical responsibility and avoids VAT on books. The right focus on the linguistic and cultural aspects. Norway is a small country, and with VAT exemptions, we have contributed to a very high proportion of book readers. In addition, this has led to narrower Norwegian authors being able to sell their books at a lower price. That makes more people write in Norwegian. More readers of Norwegian books, and we have gradually received a well-functioning book market involving both authors, translators, publishers and dealers. To strengthen the Norwegian language, the Right believes that language policy must be technology-neutral and equalise all formats. The irony of fate is that books on paper that pollute — both through transport and printing — have exemption from VAT, and books that can be listened to on the ear have exemption from VAT, while the state has to have money for books that can be downloaded with a mouse click. It's quite strange that the government does it. The fact that the Workers' Party does so is as expected, but that the Centre Party and SV do not have the power to base the cultural aspect in such a big case as this one is disappointing. The supply of English-language books has in a short time become large and at very low prices. Foreign books now have a much larger market to distribute costs and thus can live well with lower revenues per year. book. With VAT on e-books, the price gap against Norwegian books is even greater. A price elasticity related to the placing on the market of books has been demonstrated. In Denmark and Sweden, which is a country it is natural to compare us with, we see that when the price increases by 1 pst, demand decreases by 1.45 pst. In Sweden, the book tax was reduced from 25 pst. to 6 pst. in 2002, resulting in an increase in sales of 17 p.m. On the right, it is very good that children, young people and adults read books in foreign languages, but it could in the long run weaken Norwegian as a writing language and also lead to fewer Norwegian translations. To strengthen the Norwegian language, language policy must be technology-neutral. E-books are cheaper, faster, more flexible, increase availability and are more environmentally friendly, and can be continuously updated instead of one having to wait for the next edition. On the right, it seems pointless that books on paper and audiobooks should be VAT-free, while on mp3 files and in digital format the same books should be charged. It seems as if developments are moving too fast for the Government, using its spinal cord reflexes to cover everything new, to cost what it will cost, and to remedy it in the future. Several will select e-books, and then it is important that the offer of Norwegian e-books is attractive in number, timeliness and price. Perhaps it is time for the Prime Minister to take over cultural policy from the Minister of Culture, because it looks like the Minister of Culture in one field after another is giving up on cultural policy, and it responds very strongly to it. In the case of VAT on e-news, the Right has said that we want to await the suspension of the Media Support Committee. We see that the situation for the newspaper industry is not close to being as precarious as it is for the book industry, which is now ready for launch, and the Storting decision today increases the risk that this could become a belly pad rather than a bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e884	Perhaps then the representative also takes up proposals in line with what he said?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e887	It is very good that the President is more eager than the proposers. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e893	The representative Arve Kambe then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e896	I won't forget to bring up any suggestions! I want to say that Norway is a small language community, and Norwegian authors write for a relatively small audience. It is important to facilitate that they can live by writing, and that the audience chooses to read their books. This was the background to the introduction of the VAT exemption on paperbooks. It's worked. I guess it's worth spending money on Norwegian literature. I understand bookstores and publishers who are concerned when someone wants to take this money from them, but I think it is necessary to start a debate on whether the money can be used differently. It is not surprising that when someone asks the bookstores and publishers if they want more money, they answer yes. I am not primarily concerned with saving money for the state, but I am concerned about promoting Norwegian literature, and then I would like to say that I will not make any changes to today's VAT exemption on paper books, without having any other tools in place. But it's worth thinking that a third of today's money going to VAT exemptions on paperbooks goes to foreign books in foreign languages, and that's more than all the purchasing arrangements in the literature and music fields cost. There are schemes that are important for the narrow literature and that are earmarked for Norwegian authors. This year, these schemes have also been extended to digital books – a small increase, and a bet that I believe should be expandable. There's nothing new about VAT on e-books. It's been for years, even when today's opposition has fallen. The cultural field has had the position that they wanted to extend the VAT exemption. The Ministry of Finance has opposed this. This has been a fixed position for many years that I think we should get out of. That the Storting will reject this proposal today will not mean the end of the debate on VAT on e-books, just as it meant the beginning of the debate. But it would be an advantage if we could have a constructive debate on boundaries in terms of what is an e-book, and whether this debate could also take place within an understanding that we are talking about the use of Community funds, where one penny of lost revenue in the Ministry of Finance's budget is no less than one penny in expenditure on the Ministry of Culture's budget. One of the questions we can then ask is: would it be right to go in for VAT exemptions on e-books if the price totaled is higher than what we, for example. Today, use for the entire Norwegian library service? In my opinion, we need to explore a number of measures, including the effect of a flat culture tax that could be wider than what is currently totally exempted. It is not difficult to agree that there is a spirit there is a need to support, but is it the work of the Spirit in the form of the written word, or is it the work of the Spirit in the form of utterance? We now see a fusion of singers, where the perception of what is a book changes. We don't just get books with pictures, but we get books with animated images. We get video, we get audio, we get interactive, and we get borderlines against movies and music and computer games. If we are to discuss a different VAT regime for e-books from today's system, we have to choose a solution that will sustain technological development for some years to come, including sound and vivid images, in my opinion. And this is not the case with the proposal that was promoted by the Progress Party, which defines the e-book as a digital edition of a paperbook. This will mean that a lot of things fall by the wayside, for example. Large Norwegian lexicons, or other online sources of knowledge and culture, which will never be published again on paper. One point of view I have met is that today's VAT exemption on paper books is a general industry support that enables bookstores and publishers to publish other than best sellers. The VAT exemption on books becomes a contribution from the State in cooperation, where the State offers exemption from VAT from the need to take cultural policy into account by publishers and book dealers. An argument for the status quo will be easily reached. The problem is that today’s system does not stimulate the development of digital services. It is important that the e-book market is not left to English-speaking publishers, where e-books are currently in practice free of VAT because there is no system to collect them. I recently had a meeting with those who make the Norwegian WiMP streaming system. They said we can pay 30 pst. VAT, just our competitors do the same thing. Therefore, it is urgent to impose a duty on the delivery of digital products from abroad, which I understand the Ministry of Finance is now working on, and which we hope will be put in place in the state budget for the autumn. There will then be a level playing field between Norwegian and foreign e-books. In the case of newspapers, we are waiting for the Media Support Committee's investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e915	It is important to promote the reading of books in Norwegian. The centre party agrees and supports it. It's part of our cultural heritage, and as we know it's all culture. It's the dynamic. That's the changes. That's what's alive. That's what has life's right in the future as well. Norwegian language is part of our common identity, and it's part of our community. The Centre Party’s cultural policy efforts were mentioned here, and the reference was among others. former representative Hovdhaugen from Venåsen in Ringebu. He stands like a bauta in this work. We who are today have a bit of a task to follow up on the work he has done. The question today is how to support reading books in Norwegian through zero VAT, low VAT or appropriations. There is a discrimination between printed and electronic media. Printed goods are goods, while electronic services are services. This uncertainty about future framework conditions pushes the e-boxing of Norwegian publishers further into the future. There is a need for clarification. The centre party believes, as several have said here, that similar goods and services should be treated equally in terms of VAT. It is important and necessary that the Ministry of Finance has started work on imposing a duty on supplies of digital products from abroad to consumers in Norway, so that there is a level playing field between foreign and Norwegian operators. The technology for e-books is spreading rapidly, and too many types of books are reason to expect a lot of sales. The Red-Greens in Stortinget have asked the Ministry of Finance to work more quickly to clarify the matter. However, it is natural that changes should come to the annual government budgets, through careful assessment and with delimitation of goods and services that are not related to the promotion of the reading of Norwegian languages. Clear rules reduce red tape as a result of a small room of action, so it is important that you get that job done well. In the case of newspapers, the Ministry of Culture has reduced a sample, the Media Aid Committee, which is to make an overall assessment of the use of grant schemes and other economic instruments, including the VAT exemption for newspapers, a VAT exemption which also applies to unemployment newspapers. In general, the exemption for ransom papers is known as the VG tax. It is one of the most lucrative schemes that such enterprises have, with a size of the aid compared to those that have to pay VAT, of 500 000 DKK per year. annual work, which represents a far, far greater amount than the press support for the relevant newspapers, on which there is so much discussion. But all of this is now being reviewed in the Media Support Committee. Technological development creates new challenges for Norwegian script culture. There are many positive possibilities for the production and distribution of e-news. It allows both cheaper production, cheaper and faster distribution and better availability. In this respect, it is important to see the coherence of the framework conditions and the relationship between production and distribution – in terms of production: joint treatment of both the printed paper and the e-news, and in terms of distribution: to facilitate electronic distribution through fibre cables. This is not possible across the country without a switch to a demand-driven and not demand-driven expansion of fibre networks in the country. The framework conditions for production must also be seen in the context of the framework conditions applicable to distribution in order to be able to distribute to the whole country at the same time, thus achieving a complete and good national policy. In the case of newspapers, the opinion of the Central Party and the rest of the government parties is that one comes back to this in the State budget. And as I said, it's important that there are clear boundaries between newspapers that are going to get lower VAT and the printed magazines and publications that are not going to get it. We expect this to be one of the key challenges facing the Ministry of Finance when looking at both the framework conditions for books and newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e932	As others have pointed out, there has been a 40-year resistance from the Ministry of Finance to exempting books from VAT. So one might say that there is a tradition that I feel is being followed up in the answer letter from the Ministry of Finance in connection with this proposal for a representative. I also think there is a change in the Ministry of Finance's argument. I don't know if it has to do with the change of state council, but when Kristin Halvorsen wrote about this – and it's also referred to in the setting – cultural policy arguments were actually used for exemption. In the letter from Sigbjørn Johnsen, if you look for a long time, you might find an indirect argument in the same direction. But I think a more important moment for Sigbjørn Johnsen has been the following sentence: “The pressure on the VAT system is great.” I think that is also the basis for such a vague majority position that we have. Does it really say that the majority wants equal treatment? Actually, it doesn't, either. It's just saying that this is going to get you back to, and that there's a lot of delimitation challenges. So when Johnsen is going to have the floor, I would like to challenge: does the Minister of Finance think that it is right and reasonable that there is equal treatment, after all, whether you have VAT or not, of books, as we know today, and of what is distributed electronically, or does he think that it is right that there is discrimination? The same question also applies to newspapers. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are in favour of the proposal for a representative. We are aware that we are in the middle of a budgetary year, but as the hearing clearly showed, it is not the proceeds that are here the big challenge at all. That's in case of a completely surrogate argument. The question is, however, what are the consequences of not making this change? It was also striking in the hearing that there were quite clear, from all operators in the industry, referring also to what happened when the VAT exemption was granted on books in its time, that this had a positive effect on the industry and thus the Norwegian language. With regard to the second proposal, which concerns newspapers, our position is that it is entirely right that we should get an investigation from the Media Support Committee, but regardless of that, the principle of non-discrimination should apply. That is why we support the proposal as it stands. Then we may come back if the Media Support Committee would recommend a common VAT, for example, and decide on it. The point here for us is to decide on the principle of non-discrimination. So I've explained our view, and I'm actually facing a slightly clearer lead from the majority, whether you think you should have a change, or whether you should maintain the status quo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e945	I want to use a few words to say a little bit about the VAT system, and what is the point of the VAT system – I want to start there. The VAT system is a general consumption tax and has the primary purpose of providing revenue for all the good purposes of the State budget on the expenditure side. It is a general system, the most ideal VAT system has one rate, so that it is to the extent equal treatment of different goods and services, and it is a simple system. There is probably also some reason why the system has been introduced in over 150 countries. We need a system of VAT that is simple and efficient, and we have also had an earlier discussion here in the Stortingen on business simplification. The interesting thing is that the more complicated the VAT system becomes, the more loot and staple it becomes for those who have to practise a VAT system with many different rates and exemptions and purposes. I also think it is important to have this discussion, that the more different purposes a tax system or a VAT system should have, the more complicated and eroded it becomes. And we have a practice in Norway that when we want to achieve good purposes, it is easier and more focused to do it directly above the state budget. In addition, VAT exemptions are self-evident that there is no framework regime, but the value of an exemption increases with turnover. For example, the VAT exemption for VG and Dagbladet together amounts to more than the total amount of press support. So there are aspects of this that I think it's important to discuss carefully. The general rule is that you have a VAT rate of 25 pst. Then you have a 14 pst. on food, then has an 8 pst. on some services, and then a zero also has on some things. The representative's tendency was within parts of the history, and the interesting thing here is that the exemption from both books and newspapers has been there since the VAT system came, from 1 January 1970. And, as the representative Tenden correctly said, books were exempt from the turnover tax in 1965. In fact, there were leaves of the week, etc. already exempted from 1935, with the reason that it would be too complicated and create too much trouble to charge that fee. So I'm not going to go any further into history, but when you look at the justification, it's partly about more tax-related issues, but also, of course, historically, is a justification for the desire to take care of the Norwegian language and special cultural policy interests. So today's exemptions amount to about DKK 2.5 billion, if we include both newspapers and books, and if one were to introduce a new exemption, for e-books, it would come to the top. So there's a more complicated question than here and now just saying that we're introducing VAT exemptions on e-books. My main point is that the debate we have today, and the issue we have today, is part of a more comprehensive discussion of the VAT system, in which one must of course also make it possible to call cultural policy balances between a VAT exemption, which is on books today, and other things that have a cultural policy side. From the Ministry of Finance, we will follow closely what is happening in the EU, because the development of online commerce is something new, it has only been speeding up in recent years, and I know that many countries experience much of the same thing Norway is doing, that a question arises as to how to intervene with this growing online trade, which in many ways helps to erode some of the tax base in other areas. So we have to see this in a larger context, follow up on what is happening in the EU, await the position of the Media Support Committee, and when these things are on the table, the Ministry of Finance will carry out a comprehensive review of both the e-book and the whole system of exemptions, or other rates, on various writings and culture, both on the basis of a fee and, as I said, a cultural policy assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e963	I thank the Council of State for information on the history of VAT, but that was a reason why VAT exemptions were introduced on books in the 1960s, namely to promote the Norwegian language and Norwegian authors, and to change the framework conditions for the entire industry. It forgot to bring with you the Council of State. He also didn't mention anything about the proceeds, the calculation, when the department says that this will cost too much. Can the Council of State say anything about that? Can the Council also say anything about this by treating paper books, audiobooks and e-books in a non-discriminatory manner? Does not the Prime Minister – excuse me, the Minister of Finance – see that this threatens the entire industry and that these are important cultural policy instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e970	I certainly believe that I also said that there were fiscal arguments to exempt books from VAT, but also linguistic and cultural policy arguments. So that discussion we've had with us for a long time. So I mentioned in my post that if you look at the value of the exemption that is there today on books, newspapers etc., it amounts to about DKK 2.5 billion in proceeds. I believe that an important part of that discussion is whether that proceeds could be used, for example. cultural policy in a more targeted way than what we see today. It is part of this discussion. It is uncertain to calculate any proceeds of exemption on e-books, but in that case it will be in addition to the DKK 2.5 billion. Otherwise, I agree with the representative that the best thing in the VAT system is when you get a level playing field between different goods and services, and I really think that the discussion we have today deserves us to see the whole problem in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e979	State Council Johnsen began his lecture to the Stortinget with the point of VAT. The point of the opposition's proposal is books and cultural policy, and it has something to do with which approach you choose. This is a classic problem of this government in this Chamber: for every proposal that comes from the opposition, you refer to budgets, and you will not do anything. But if the government wanted to do something about VAT on e-books, you could do it. The government feels that in terms of the revised budget, the government likes it like an open fine in the case of state budgets. In other words, you don't want to do anything about it. Billing representative Gunn Karin Gjul says that VAT cuts do not erode the VAT system. Do the councils agree with their own cultural-political spokeswoman?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e988	It is probably not very surprising that the Minister of Finance is concerned with the income of the state. There are a lot more people who are concerned about government expenditure. It's important that we get income into the treasury, and VAT represents an income of about NOK 200 billion. So it's natural for me to be concerned about it. What's quite clear, and as all the experience suggests, is that if you give an exemption in one area, you're always getting a discussion about boundaries up to new areas. And that's some of what we experience in connection with this case. I also think that if you remove a VAT rate, it is basically a lost proceeds. A feeling that it should lead to increased proceeds is, of course, a kind of dynamic effect that it should lead to increased turnover in other areas. However, from a more fiscal point of view, an exemption is a progeny top.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e997	The representative Thomsen was about to refer to the Council of State as Prime Minister, but I also saw that the Council of State had no objection to it! Maybe that would have had an effect on the answer? I don't know. I heard in the post from the State Council Johnsen that he was concerned that it might be better to make visible the support like that. a VAT exemption means, by having it on the expenditure side of the budget, that is, as a subsidy. My question is then: is it the government's basic starting point for the matter we are discussing here, that you want to give support rather than a VAT exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1005	So there should be no misunderstanding about it: we have a very good Prime Minister, and I am well pleased to be Minister of Finance! My point was that to the extent that we have an established system that if there's something you'd like to build up under very focused, it's more focused to do it through the budget than in a way to erode the tax system. One of these was the dilemma when a major tax reform took place early in the 1990s: there were too many exemptions and deductions in the tax system, and a replacement of a broader tax base with lower tax rates. I believe that what the representative Syversen refers to must be part of the overall assessment that the ministry is going to make. And at the bottom there has to be an attitude that different goods and services should initially be treated equally with regard to the charging system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1016	In yesterday's class struggle, two editors from Aschehoug and Gyldendal went out and said that they would postpone the e-book launch. To the class struggle, Nygaard says that if you do not find a solution to this question, it will be the beginning of a reduction in literary Norway. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, does he want to find a solution to the challenge we're facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1023	As I said in my post, there are three things that are important to do now: it is to look at the evolution of the EU system, to await the Media Support Committee and, on the basis of it, to carry out an overall review that also includes the e-VAT case. In this respect, it is essential that a person should seek to find a solution that will enable both a good charging system to exist in the future, and also support under the important cultural policy measures. Otherwise, with reference to a quote in the Evening Post from the relevant publisher director, it is a saying in the Hedmark that ‘the great words get a spare until it becomes possible to use them’. I think it will also apply in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1030	The Council of State has shown that the Media Support Committee should now be waiting for it to take a look at developments in the EU, and then the Department should investigate. I think I already hear that it will go a few years! The problem now is that this is urgent. The e-book market has been lying and waking up – it has not become detached. Now it's getting loose! Amazon and the major actors internationally are implementing their systems for this. It's an incredibly important point that we have systems and distribution systems that come out of Norwegian environments, Norwegian conditions. The whole gravity of the digital market is enormous and turns out to be very monopolistic, also in an international sense: Wikipedia, Google – I mention in a number of large, heavy international players, who are pushing on. The problem in this case, unlike part of the other thing being discussed, is that if the industry doesn't get a clear answer to where this is going, we won't get the Norwegian-based systems started. Is the Council of State concerned that we will not later get systems for the distribution of e-books that come out of the Norwegian industry, or does the Council of State think it is entirely right that we will be referred to Amazon, Google, or who it should be of the big ones, in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1043	This is in many ways a debate that depends on which end you see the problem from. One way to look at it is to ask the question of whether current legislation prevents the development of new technologies and digital solutions. There's one discussion. One could answer by saying that no, it is rather that today's VAT exemption for the printed word – that is, ordinary books – is one of the challenges, not that a lack of exemption for digital versions. That's one way to think about it. As far as I know about the matter, it is now working under high pressure in the EU to try to arrive at common rules, both in terms of online commerce and the issues we have raised here, and the Media Support Committee will be presenting its opinion later this autumn. I promise that we will not use winter and spring to answer this question. It is an important question — both the single issue we are dealing with today and the fact that it is related to the VAT system as a whole. So we're not going to spend more time than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1050	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1055	Olemic Thommessen is concerned about the competition from English e-books, and so am I. That's why it's very important to get equal treatment. We hope that it will come into place already in the autumn budget. As the Council of State said, there is a high-pressure job in the Ministry of Finance. It is important for Norwegian e-books, but it is also important for an actor like WiMP, who has 150 jobs and who threatens to move to Sweden if they do not have a similar tax regime. The representatives of Kambe and Thomsen believe that we who make up the majority do not understand technology, and we are almost compared to those who opposed color television. Those who say that, are the ones who demand equal treatment bound to variants of the paperbook as the original. It is, in my view, backward-looking, and it will in fact quickly become a hindrance to the transition to new technological platforms. We need to find more intelligent solutions that can last over time. The case rapporteur asks what we can expect from the sale of e-books, and she answers that we can expect a lot. I agree with her. Ib Thomsen says this is going to be about zero-proveny -- a direct transition from paper to e-books. I think that is due to a lack of understanding of both what is the driving force of the economy in society, and – not least – an understanding of technology. I'm absolutely sure the e-books are going to become more important, but I don't think they're going to replace the paperbooks. We can see that in the libraries, where the use of digital sources is going to be very bad, while the use of paperbooks is fairly stable. And we see it when it was said during the hearing that only the University of Oslo in the past paid 7.5 million. kr in VAT on what I want to define as e-books, and last year 11 million. kr. What we see is really the same as we've seen in phone use. The countersteps have become cheaper, the phone is more accessible, and most of us today spend more money on the phone than we did when the phone was large and gray and had a record and stuck in the wall. We are facing major changes in the production, sale and use of copyright works. At the same time, I agree with those who say that there is a greater need than perhaps ever to protect Norwegian language and Norwegian literature. But this has to be done in a thoughtful way, and I encourage the industry to participate in a constructive debate on that. I also hear that the Minister of Finance says that we need a complete discussion, and that it must include both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture – and come into contact with the State budget. So these I think are positive signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1066	The fact that the Minister of Finance has become Minister of Culture shows this debate. It is incredible that there is no one from the cultural fraction of the Workers' Party present in this debate. But maybe they don't dare to take the debate. It is also very bad that this case has become a financial debate where it is about proceeds – a budget debate instead of a cultural debate. It is incredibly bad for the industry that this case has ended like this. The only little snout of sparkle was actually when the representative Lundtigen spoke of equal goods for equal service. And that's what we're talking about here. If it's newspapers or books, we're talking about VAT for the same content. We're not talking about replacing books, which Aegean was in, we're talking about the same content as in the books, which can now be put into the e-book or in e-newspapers. It would have been exciting if the Minister of Finance had talked to the Prime Minister, if he might want to download a book on the iPad that he brought with him across Europe, or if he wanted to book in hard format – whether he sees the difference in it when it's actually the same content. But this government has put much more into this matter than is necessary. Egeland talked about it being a topic for many years. And maybe that's the problem -- maybe the Storting is just old-fashioned, old-fashioned, maybe we're all a little backward-looking. I'm going to honestly admit that six months ago I actually didn't know what an e-book was. But I know that now, after meeting with the industry – the media industry and the book industry – that actually screams after the Government, or the Storting, is now acting and taking the situation out there seriously. But instead, it is to be investigated and investigated. And as we investigate, we get new technology. There's so much happening in that industry that it's important that the Bigholding shows action. It is important to promote Norwegian literature, and it is important that the industry gets the tools it needs. What happens now is that it's the industry that has to suffer from it. So that's why I want to say that this is actually a sad day for the whole industry, when the government and the majority of people are unable to see the importance of having a VAT exemption on the same product as a regular book, as an e-book is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1081	The Minister of Finance thought that the problem here was that there was VAT exemption on paper books and that that was what created the imbalance. Then the Minister of Finance is wrong. The problem is that on the international service, eBook, there is no VAT, which means that any Norwegian operators on the market will have a handicap if they want to start. They start from a small market, with low earnings and very difficult concepts to actually make money. And you have to do that in order for someone to spend their savings on getting these systems working. What's a little motivating is that this debate is riveting into several debates where the government is completely out of strategy with regard to the transition to digital platforms. We have had several rounds with the Minister of Culture in recent times, including: on Great Norwegian encyclopaedia and the transition to the digital knowledge dissemination platform, where it is argued entirely squarely with purely commercial arguments and where restrictions are relied on in the EEA system. The problem is that we are facing the fact that the Ministry of Finance is the largest contributor to Norwegian cultural life. It is the charging systems, and it is the structures resulting from the charging systems, which are the main incentives for the development and development of cultural distribution channels. The issue of later government not being able to deal with the transition to digital communication, which means shifting the whole system, even in relation to the tax. It is striking how absent the Minister of Culture is in this. I might have thought that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance had talked more about this, so that we had been given clearer signals about what strategy and what the main action the Government would be working on in this issue. So you're not willing to rush into this specific issue of e-books. What are we really talking about? Now let's say they had sold 200,000 e-books, for example. $250.50 (U.S.) That's far more than you think, at a much higher price than you think. In that case, we're talking about a $12.5 million proceeds. kr, which is relatively small, not to say ‘buttons’, in relation to the amount we otherwise talk about. Another fact is that the experience from the United States tells us that the e-book passes the paperbook – it's not that it comes to the top of the paperbook. This means that the total contribution to Norwegian literature sinks in line with the e-boxal, and that the Government undermines the system that has been used to support Norwegian language and Norwegian literature.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1092	Lars Egeland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1095	A few brief comments to Olemic Thommessen. He's talking about the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. But they actually provide a proposal that defines a service as Great Norwegian outside what they think should be supported by VAT exemptions. He also suggests a potential sample surface of 12.5 million. kr for the sale of e-books in Norway, but that corresponds only to the library of the University of Oslo paying VAT on its digital services today. And then that's the issue of non-discrimination with foreign e-books. Now it is said quite clearly from working under pressure with it in the Ministry of Finance, and that hopefully it will come in the government budget of the autumn. I think one should be very careful to doubt that it is coming, because it can give wrong signals to the very actors who are sitting waiting to get such a non-discrimination in place. We need to be clear that it's coming, and the Ministry of Finance is working for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1103	So now I don't think it's the opposition that's going to take over the problem of giving wults and bad signals. The issue is that it is the Government that lacks a clear strategy and a comprehensive approach to transition from physical distribution to digital distribution. That's the problem. And it's not just a problem related to e-books. This is also a problem, for example. related to film distribution. The government should talk to each other across departments as soon as possible, and in fact explain to the outside world what objectives are being pursued, and what holistic approaches and principles will be followed. What we see is that the whole question of cultural VAT is «in silence», perhaps with good reason. We see that the issue of general knowledge dissemination is not addressed by any comprehensive approach. We see that there is an incredible amount of abduction in distribution within the media. There is no clear policy for, for example: the availability of cable distribution related to open and closed networks. There is no overall grip or clear signal on where to go in terms of media support, the relationship between charges and support schemes there. There are, in short, incredibly few signals to stick to in a period where we have a stronger development than ever. Never before in history have the framework conditions for dissemination changed as dramatically as in our time. This means that you can't run and reduce samples and wait for years before coming up with any signals about where you want and what you want. Another issue that is also not addressed is the challenges we face with the EU system and competition rules. Competition rules within the EU are a continuous challenge to the instrument we have under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture. Here, too, there is a question of room for manoeuvre, i.e. what legislation applies to fiscal policy and what applies to cultural policy instruments. In fact, there's a very important distinction between competition, and I think the Ministry of Finance has opportunities that the Ministry of Culture doesn't have. You look it up against the exceptions that so far determine, for example. related to the definition of language, there are things to tackle that provide the Ministry of Finance with significant opportunities. I hope the Ministry of Finance will make it visible and make it clear that they are also the bearer of cultural policy considerations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1112	In this room many great, wise decisions have been taken that have taken Norwegian culture and Norwegian language further. There has been a great deal of action, not only in terms of cultural policy, but also in terms of using the entire policy spectrum to promote Norwegian culture and Norwegian languages. Norwegian is an incredibly small language. I do not agree with those who believe that the Norwegian language is about to die out, but that is a language that needs to be protected. It's a language that has to be fenced around in every possible way. Last year I was the case rapporteur for the language message. Then there was a broad consensus in this room about how important it was to fence around the Norwegian language. At that time, there was broad consensus on the importance of developing the language in all areas — professional and media languages. All of those elements were included, and there was a broad consensus on that. Now we see that maybe we're using language much more actively than we've ever done. In my generation, we wrote mostly just when we wrote style. That's when we picked up the pen and wrote the whole sentences. Today's youth writes a lot more, in every possible social media, and communicates a lot more in writing. That means that we have a big challenge in keeping our language, because many of the arenas are international, where it's just as easy to communicate in another language. We're going to live in a multicultural world where we know different languages, where we relate to different languages all the time. If we then apply a policy from this room that does not take the offensive, which does not care about taking care of the language, which does not promote Norwegian literature, there will be no difference between what is Norwegian and what is foreign literature. If we do some action from here, not just to stimulate art and culture as an important part of this, but also to stimulate the Norwegian language, make sure that the Norwegian language evolves, make sure that Norwegian authors develop exciting Norwegian literature in the Norwegian language, this is part of that communication. What's the difference between foreign journalists being able to write articles and we can just cut them into ours, if it actually helps to develop the Norwegian language also as a language of communication for journalism, that's what this is really about. It is not just cultural policy but, above all, language policy – how we in this room should thank boldly for keeping the Norwegian language further ahead. I believe that the decision we are making today is shameful to our predecessors in this room. In this Chamber many bold decisions have been taken to maintain the Norwegian language. A creative policy was developed to maintain the Norwegian language, while the decision we are making here today undermines the Norwegian language as an art and cultural intermediary. It undermines it as a journalistic language. Yes, it undermines the job we're doing here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1127	Several speakers have not asked for the floor on the matter. Four and five. The President may add that the Minister of Finance must take the consolation back that the Ministry's cultural policy importance has rarely been so strongly highlighted in some debate, although the President is somewhat in doubt about all the documents that have come and come from the Department. [[See page 3131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1145	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines after the submission by the Council of State. Furthermore, it is proposed that the speakers who had to sign up for the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1154	In this case, the proposers refer to the debate that has been associated with the future of Aker Hospital in Oslo. The current structural changes are perceived as a closure of Aker hospitals. The proposers believe that this makes little sense, as health cows and waiting times increase the need for the capacity of the Aker hospital today. The proposers believe that the closure of Aker Hospital will lead to a weak patient offer in the Oslo region. The proposers are surprised that Aker Hospital is being closed down as a consequence of Ahus’ overcapacity. They're referring to signals that indicate that the capacity of Ahus has already exploded, and they think that the extent of the Corridor Asians is visible. The proposers believe that the Government must intervene with the Healthy South-East Board in this matter, so that a more secure operation at Aker Hospital until the necessary capacity exists at Aarhus or the patient supply is secured in another way. The majority of the committee suggests that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy has given its support to the Government's decision to merge Health South and Health East. The new health region was given a clear mandate by the Stortinget to improve coordination and use of resources. The majority in the committee will also refer to St.prp. No 1 for 2003–2004 when the final decision on the start of construction of new Aarhus in Akershu’s univserity hospital applies. In the plans for this extension, the patient base for the cities of Grorud, Stovner and Alna was included. The majority are aware that the inhabitants of the cities of Stovner and Grorud were moved in 2004 and that patients from Alna City Centre are scheduled to be transferred in 2011. Before that time, a new department with a patient hotel should also be used. The Committee underlines in the setting that an evaluation should be carried out of the patient offer to the inhabitants of the cities of Grorud and Stovner, before the notification of the transfer from the city of Alna can be realised. The Committee also believes that citizens should be confident that a good and defensive local hospital offer will be provided both at Akershu University Hospital and at the three local hospitals in Oslo. The Committee also points out that the Minister of Health and Health has taken the initiative of working together to develop parts of the current Aker Hospital into a collaborative venue for lifestyle diseases, chronic illness, rehabilitation and other health services in the context of the Interaction Reform. The premise is that the Municipality of Oslo sees the great need for this, and wants to enter into such cooperation. The Committee also refers to the decision to establish Rusakutt at Aker Hospital and to the fact that the municipality of Oslo will be able to localise the metropolitan guard here. The position of the majority in the matter is that the proposed representative will be attached to the meeting book.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1169	Aker Hospital has provided good hospital services to people in Oslo for over 100 years. Aker is a good hospital with strong trade unions. We understand all those who have expressed their concern that they should move local hospital affiliation to other hospitals in the new Oslo University Hospital health care company. We want to assure everyone that no one will be receiving health care worse than they are today, regardless of reorganization or relocation. Safe and good health services are the most important focus for us red-green, and it is totally inappropriate to compromise on quality when it comes to people's health. Therefore, I would like to stress that it has been established that an evaluation of the patient offer to the inhabitants of the districts of Grorud and Stovner is to be carried out before the notified transfer to Aarhus for patients in these districts is realised, as planned, in 2011. This is also in accordance with the requirements of Oslo City Council. We support the conversion of both large and small hospitals to ensure better quality of services. Sometimes it involves unpopular decisions there and there, but it may still be necessary to ensure that the health services of the future are as good as the people in this country deserve. We have launched the Interaction Reform, which will strengthen healthcare in a more appropriate and sustainable way for the future. We need to collect highly specialised medicine in fewer hospitals, where we deal with the most demanding and complex treatments. Then we need to get better at treating the large groups who live with disease much of their lives. More of this can happen closer to where people live. We must better organise for the elderly with complex disorders, all with lifestyle diseases, chronic plagues and those who suffer from drug dependence and mental challenges. These will receive better treatment with closeness to the community health service, which will cooperate with the specialist health service to provide high quality services for all parts of the service. That is why I think it is very positive that Minister of Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen has warned that Aker Hospital can become a pilot project for a lifestyle and interaction hospital. It assumes that Oslo University Hospital and Oslo Municipality are beginning to deal quickly with the interaction on how Aker Hospital can develop within such a concept. Municipalities and hospitals must play a team, we must succeed in the reform. We imagine that, for example. The caretaker and rusakutt may be important parts of such a concept on Aker, sail if it is not correct for the Stortinget to advance the content of such an interaction arena. Acer is already highly skilled and experienced in chroniclers, minority health, drug treatment, psychiatry and lifestyle-related diseases, to name a few. The fact that such a heavy professional environment is responsible for such important services can contribute a lot to very good health. Not least, it provides exciting knowledge of how to combat and treat people’s diseases as best we can. We believe it is necessary for Oslo University Hospital to clarify as soon as possible which parts of Aker's activities will be in the Aker area in the coming years and, if necessary, in the long term, in order to prevent the break-up of professional environments and to avoid the disappearance of the necessary personnel and competences. The Urological Department at Aker may be the best in the country. It would probably be very unfortunate for patients if you can't keep an environment like this. I also understand very well the criticism that it is proposed to sell the building stock on Aker. Under no circumstances should we be in a situation where the community first sells, and then we have to rent the properties back. We must work for the best possible solution for patients in Oslo and the Groruddalen. We will guarantee to the public that we will follow this process very closely. People should be sure that they have access to the best possible and well-coordinated healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1190	In today's case, we are clearly shown that the government's promises from Soria Moria not to shut down local hospitals have zero value. This was to the extent that we knew well from before, all the time six local hospitals have already settled during the red-green reigning epoch. This I will come back to later. In the case of Aker hospitals, it is absolutely necessary to look at the circumstances of the future. The population of Oslo is going to grow radically in the years that are coming, no matter what the Center Party may wish and hope. This, of course, requires greater capacity — if you want to maintain and further develop the offer, if you really want to reduce waiting times and waiting lists, and if you want to get people healthy, rather than having 260,000 people on waiting lists. If you actually mean something with the fine party speeches and promises in the election campaign, you have to increase the capacity of the health service, not build it down, as a defeat of Aker is in reality. Aker Hospital is far more than a building and, as the representative Hagebakken referred to, has over 100 years of proud history. Aker Hospital is also a competence environment, and it is the content that is important. For example, Aker treats a large proportion of patients with prostate power in Norway, and this with great luck. I have had many debates with the Cancer Association and the Prostate Cancer Association where Aker Hospital’s competence in this area is being highlighted – and there is a great deal of concern. What the government is really doing is breaking up important disciplines without ensuring that they are taken care of elsewhere. This can only be described as a risk sport with patients as an effort. We also know that the wave of old age is going to strike Oslo and the rest of the country. This is a population that requires more specialist health services compared to 30- and 40-year-olds. This again means that we are completely dependent on a capacity increase. In this context, it appears as a great paradox that the red-green government parties today vote against the continuation of the Aker hospital. I have recorded that a number of Oslo politicians from the red-green parties have raised the tab very high in this matter. I suppose it must be a sad day for Jan Bøhler and other working party politicians who today must vote for the closure of Aker Hospital. It's also a paradox that on Aker, barely three years ago, 40 million were spent. NOK in a new department, which you have to close today. Get it, whoever wants it. I have registered that the government party of the Senterpartiet has gone sky high on the track in the case of local hospitals – no one should be laid down, you can hear from that edge. There will be more money if someone is in danger of being laid down, the party leader has stated. Lærdal, Nordfjordeid, Volda and Kristiansund are mentioned – rightly – repeatedly. I totally agree. It's not useful to lay down a local hospital. But in the case of Aker Hospital, the Center Party has been silent. What is it that makes Aker local hospital not important for the Center Party? I'm just asking. What is obvious is that for the representative Kjersti Toppe, a local hospital for the inhabitants of Oslo is far less important than a local hospital in the home state of Navarsets. The term ‘city and country hand-in-hand’ is obviously not relevant to the centre party anymore. Now, it's obviously the following expressions the Center Party rules on: City gets to be a city, only country gets the Center Party's hand. That being said, there is nothing to suggest that the Center Party's hand is a great help to health care in the districts either. Today, the government will appear as a visible evidence that it deliberately chooses to lay down local hospitals in Norway — at a time of growing health cows and waiting times, at a time when the elderly and population growth are in progress, and at a time when the country’s economy can best be compared with Uncle Screws’ money. So in this time, the government is going to go to a massive closure of local hospitals. It is simply incomprehensible that, at this time, there should be uncertainty about the provision of health services to people by removing emergency services and food supplies in the districts and destroying important professional environments, such as: by Aker. The closure of Aker is economically, professionally and morally irresponsible. With these words, I will also address the proposal that the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1211	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1214	I would like to refer you initially to the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. The right-hand side of this case is in conjunction with the government parties and assumes that the process related to hospital services in the capital area is anchored by two key decisions in the Stortinget. The first is the investment decision relating to the construction of a new hospital, Ahus. The second is Storting's strong commitment to bringing Health South and Health East together to get a more appropriate hospital structure in the capital area. One consequence of this is the closure or alteration of Aker Hospital as we know it today. There's several reasons for that. One is actually doing what the Stortinget has asked for, that is to take advantage of the capacity underlying the construction of Ahus. Listening to this debate may give the impression that maintaining Aker hospitals will not have consequences for parts of the country other than the Groruddalen. That's wrong. One sees that the minority representatives are neither from Uppland nor Eastfold in the hall. They should have been the most. If you choose to maintain Aker hospitals, you have to fill out the vacant capacity of Ahus from the Uppland and Eastfold counties. This means that both a new hospital in Eastfold and possibly a new inland hospital will look completely different than what these states' representatives are talking about today. The second relates to the structure of the capital area. The size so clearly that the structure established in the capital area – as a result of the sharing of responsibilities that were both the responsibility of the county council and the municipality was responsible for hospitals, which was continued in the division between Health South and Health East – was not appropriate, either economically or professionally. A division of professional environments into a large housing and work area was created, where we have the opportunity to build up the most solid and broad professional environments in the country – the foremost in the nation, which was hindered by inappropriate organisation. The second is also quite obvious, that one had a completely inappropriate structure of building mass, which can now be realized, so that one spends the money for what is meant by health money, namely, treating patients at a high and professionally good quality level, and not maintaining an inappropriate building mass. If one does not choose to do so, it means that a user will use a relatively higher proportion of the national health crowns to maintain an inappropriate structure in the capital area. It will, of course, be at the expense of the health service in the rest of the country. Now there are three clear leads, repeated from Stortinget and in the majority position in this case, which it is important that the ministry and the Minister of Health follow up. One is that it is clearly said that an evaluation of the patient offer to the inhabitants of the districts of Grorud and Stovner will be carried out before the notification of the transfer in 2011. That's good, and that's in line with the wishes of Oslo City Council. The second is that one assumes that the Storting ensures that the assumptions that the Storting assumed for change will be met, and that all along it is sure that the transfer will take place in a safe and good way for patients, and that one takes into account the need for capacity. The third is that there is a positive attitude towards a good and close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo to maintain and establish new activities in parts of this area linked to local medical services for the inhabitants of this area. There I perceive that there is a positive attitude both from the Minister of Health and from the Municipality of Oslo, and I hope that it can be realized and resolved quickly, so that a person can relax around this, and that this will be a good offer to the inhabitants of this area. So with that, the Right joins in the proposal and the position of the majority in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1237	After hearing the previous posts, I could actually have declined, because I agreed with every word that was said by the representative, Höie. But I can repeat something. The starting point is, as was said, two important decisions in Stortinget. One is the background to the case of Aker Hospital, which is now being debated. It is the merger of Health South and Health East, which was a unanimous decision, if I am not completely wrong. The background to that decision – the assumption, the mission, if you like, for the new Health South-East at the time – was to make better use of hospital resources in the capital, both human and economic, and to benefit the population – not only in the capital, in the Health South-East region, which is half the country, but also the population of the rest of the country. This is an important premise that is also important to follow up. The second decision is the construction of New Aarhus – an investment of approx. $8 billion in 2010 – one of the most modern hospitals in the Nordic region. The foundation of the construction project, that is, the foundation – that it should also be a local hospital for a population of 350,000 inhabitants – was that the districts of Stovner, Grorud and Alna were moved to New Aarhus. This process of conversion, which has underpinned these two key decisions, is now under way and in the process of implementation. This is a complex process that cannot be underestimated. The safety of the population of these districts, which are now to be transferred to Ahus, must be adequately safeguarded and their implementation must take place at a pace that ensures safety. I feel absolutely confident that the Minister of Health will take care of it. That is why the debate on Aker Hospital is not just a debate for parts of the local population in Oslo, which Bent Höie was also involved. It's a debate, a discussion, that has national dimensions. This is one thing that concerns the whole country. I also refer to the initiative taken by the Minister of Health to the Municipality of Oslo to establish a continuing health service at Aker Hospital. An interaction arena for lifestyle diseases has been mentioned, psychiatry, intoxication, rehabilitation — an exciting and important pilot project for the capital. These are offers that are also available in other major cities in Europe, and which it may be worth studying more closely. But it is clear that we should get this in place – and I sincerely hope that we will – it is important that the Municipality of Oslo is also involved as an active partner. I have every reason to believe that they will be. So here the State and the Municipality of Oslo have a common responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1250	There are now major changes in hospital services around the country, and this creates a great debate. Risk analysis has been carried out for the transfer of patients from Aker University Hospital to Akershu University Hospital, Aarhus, which shows that waiting times will increase and that treatment capacity will be reduced. The Christian People's Party is concerned that changes to existing treatment services should first take place, and may take place when a new and better offer is established. In the case, what happened in 2003, when it was decided to start the construction of new Akershu University Hospital, Aarhus. The original central hospital in Akershus, SiA, was in a very bad condition at the end of the 1990s. There was also no room for the expected population growth. There was an obvious need for a new hospital. The new hospital was dimensioned to cover local and central hospital functions for 340,000 people. As a dimensional basis, the population of Rome and three parts of Oslo were taken into account. At the same time, it investigated what was then Health East, what tasks and functions the hospitals in the region should have. In April 2004, hospital liability for the districts of Grorud and Stovner in Oslo was transferred to Aarhus, as several have said. Aker University Hospital was assigned local hospital responsibility for Follo. However, these changes in impact fields have never taken a stand as such. The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen says that this debate has national dimensions. I agree. I'm on the verge of calling the situation we now have in the hospitals, of a system crisis. Patient rights in hospitals are broken. There is concern about whether this is done to decorate statistics and to save money. Local hospitals in a number of places in the country are threatened with closure, some are laid down. This causes great concern in the population. I want to quote a midwife at Nordfjord Hospital in Sogn and Fjordane, who says the following: Jens Stoltenberg says that food and emergency functions need to be centralised. Does he really want women in the districts to have several hours of driving in the ambulance, and does he want more ambulance births? This is just a picture that the population is very worried. However, local hospitals with good results – both professional and economic – with reasonable watch arrangements are getting older, possibly to finance new expensive and specialised hospitals or departments, which we find in both Aarhus and St. Olav's hospital. Major reorganizations, such as the capital process in Health South-East, express the county doctor in Oslo and Akershu's concern. He fears that it will affect the patients. It's serious when a county doctor says this. Employees too are frustrated and experience the situation unsustainable. Feedback from hospital staff expresses frustration over an ever-growing bureaucracy. They feel that directors are coming and going and that ever new reporting systems are being introduced. Doctors and nurses feel that they need to report in a number of areas rather than in patient treatment. We see that money from the Mental Health Excursion Plan covers deficits for other hospital treatment in some places in the country. Several refer to the Cooperation Reform. We have not, of course, received a number of investigations. Nevertheless, we see degradations today in hospitals, without the necessary and parallel construction of the municipal health service. This is worrying. So that's right, it has national dimensions when we're inside hospitals, local hospitals, changes in local hospitals. We want to have back a stronger political management of the hospitals. Of course, we also want to have hospitals in the districts, which means ensuring food supplies and emergency preparedness, so that people become calm and safe. The ash clouds showed us how vulnerable a system based on air ambulances can be. We need the local hospitals, which have good general competence to ensure and stabilise patients who need more specialised treatment. But my main point today is not that we should sometimes agree with changes. The point is that we must not lay down until a new and better health service is in place, and in particular before the population understands that it is actually in place. We're not there today, neither in the case of Aarhus and Aker University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1267	Like the proposers, I am concerned that patients in the capital area should be guaranteed good specialist health services, both today and in the future. As the Committee refers to, it was a broad majority in the Grand Duchy that agreed to join the Health South and Health East. Before the merger in 2007, the metropolitan area was characterised by the fact that hospitals in Oslo were located in two different health regions and that environments within the same subject area were located in several places. As an example, I can mention that there were six emergency receptions in the capital area. This led to a large proportion of human resources being used to maintain watchkeeping rather than to treat patients. There was thus clear scope for improvement in order to coordinate the environment and to obtain a more transparent offer. The aim was to ensure better use of resources, health professionals, hospital areas, medical equipment, technology and support functions. The conversions in the metropolitan area are part of a major conversion work in Health South-East, following the merger in 2007. The new region was given a clear mandate to improve coordination and resource use – for the benefit of patients. It is also true that the Committee points out that a prerequisite for the construction of Aarhus, which has also been mentioned here, was that the population of the three northernmost districts of Oslo would receive future services at the new hospital. Aarhus was therefore dimensioned to include Grorud, Stovner and Alna. These are key premises for the transitions currently taking place in the capital area. So a long-standing political process, involving several actors and the Storting, is behind it. The population of the districts of Grorud and Stovner was transferred from Aker Hospital to Aarhus as early as 2004, while the population of Alna – and Follo – is planned to be transferred from 2011. We are facing major challenges in health care – this as a consequence of an increasing proportion of the elderly and a change in the state of disease, with several chroniclers and people with complex disorders, as well as a raging technological and medical development. In this context, it is necessary to convert to. A key measure is to improve the interaction between local health services and specialist health services. This has been widely debated by Stortinget. The capital needs an interaction arena, and I have arranged for a future service offer at Aker Hospital to be developed in close cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipality of Oslo. I expect Health South-East and Oslo Municipality to continue a good and constructive dialogue to find good solutions here. Aker hospitals are to be converted in a way that benefits the inhabitants of the capital, and so that there can be a pre-existing hospital in the field of interaction. Having said that, I share the opinion of the proposers that the changes cannot be implemented until we are sure that the population transferred from Aker is guaranteed an equally good or better offer at Ahus. The proposers are concerned about the capacity of Ahus and show that there have been problems with waiting times and corridor Asians. I would like to point out that Aarhus is not yet complete. Capacity will be significantly expanded from 2011 when the last bed effusion and a new patient hotel have been completed. Health South-East has informed me that Aarhus is cooperating with the hospitals that are currently serving the people of Alna and Follo, to ensure good solutions when patients are going to be transferred. I have assured myself that Health South-East is continuously making risk assessments and correcting the plans if it turns out that the transfer can pose capacity or safety challenges. A recognition I have made since I became Minister of Health and Care is that the hospital structure and task allocation between hospitals are not optimal to meet the demands and challenges we face. The government's political platform is quite clear that no local hospital will be shut down. At the same time, work on improving the division of tasks between hospitals is to be continued. It's within this space of action that we find good solutions. This means that some hospitals can have other tasks than today, as is the case with Aker hospitals. The changes at Aker Hospital are also the result of a long-standing political process. Sustainable health care in the years to come requires adjustments to facilitate good and sound specialist health services and better resource use. It is therefore an important work going on in the health south-east and in the capital area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1282	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1286	It is relatively well done rhetorically in the same sentence both to point out that you are not going to lay down any local hospitals, and to justify why you are shutting down Aker Hospital. I don't think it's entirely for believers. I want to ask the Council of State a question, because she keeps saying that she is assured and expects and has confidence, but it is important for the people of Oslo to get a guarantee that the offer will be just as good at what becomes the option. In addition, I would like to ask: since the Council of State insists on this decision, despite the fact that the Oslo Workers' Party at both Bohemia and Nybakk has almost guaranteed that no closure will take place, I wonder what the Council of State has emphasized that she is fundamentally in disagreement with the Oslo Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1295	I think I explained quite thoroughly that the process that Aker is in now is the result of a long-standing political process. It's not just a year's immediate decision, it's a long political process. That being said, I'm concerned that when you're going to transfer patients from one hospital to another, it's going to be a better offer. I think everyone who has visited the new hospital Ahus can quickly be convinced that this is very well arranged to meet the patients of the future. It is quite clear that no one should get a worse offer than today. They will get an equal or better offer in the future, and nothing will be transferred until there is capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1302	I agree with the Council of State that one has a great potential to exploit part of the area of Aker Hospital to build a good cooperation venue for lifestyle diseases, chronic illness, rehabilitation and other health services in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. Health Nord has a lot of good examples of creating collaboration venues, where both specialist health services and community health services are hostile to each other, including financially, in order to make this work. Health South-East does not have the corresponding experience, and I am somewhat concerned if the Minister of Health intends to leave this alone to Health South-East. How will the Minister of Health ensure that Health South-East meets the Municipality of Oslo in a frank and transparent way, including in terms of economic conditions, in order to actually succeed in establishing such a cooperative area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1309	I'm busy getting a good cooperation at Aker Hospital in the future. At the same time, I must say that I record small municipalities around building interaction arenas. Among other things, they've recently done it at Otta and spent tens of millions to get this done. There must be a somewhat similar practice around the country. With regard to the negotiations between Health South-East and the Oslo Municipality on the economic details in the future, I cannot go into it, at least not here and now. What I'm assuming is that good solutions are found here for the benefit of patients, because I think you have a unique opportunity to create a forward-looking interaction offer on Aker. I assume that both parties want to get it done and find good economic models to cooperate well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1316	During the round of Aker hospital closures, it has increasingly been highlighted that this has been in the 2004 and future maps. I think it's a false historical prediction from special representatives of the government parties. If Aker was about to be laid down, why has it been ensured in Health South-East that an infection department has a net sum of over 100 million. kr was opened in January 2010 – if it was such that Aker was destined to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1321	With regard to that department, I have understood that if you were to operate at all in that period and in the years that were left to run Aker, it was necessary to do a comprehensive rehabilitation. I would also like to say that if you take the patient base from a hospital, you have to ask questions about the need for the hospital there. At least it is my clear belief that from 2003–2004, when choosing to use these three districts in Oslo and Follo as a patient base for the new Aarhus, it was a prerequisite that it would affect the patient base of Aker and that it was seen in a longer process. Then came the capital process, the merger of Health South and Health East, where there was a clear premise that functions had to be coordinated – both medical and other resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1328	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1333	This is an important matter for us from Oslo. Our commitment to this matter is a concern for the signals that have come from the two districts of Stovner and Grorud, which have already been transferred, and the alarming messages we have received about Corridor Asia and long waiting times at Ahus – for example. one and a half years for cardiac examination. In the public debate on Ahus and Aker, there are many people who have talked about distance, many who have said that people in the Grorud Valley have to endure driving to Lørenskog. But I think it's important to say that this is not a matter of distance; it's a question of capacity. With the transfer of Alna and Follo, Aarhus will be responsible for 160 000 new inhabitants. In addition, the population growth in Akershus is to be managed, which is expected to reach around 90,000 people by 2020. For us, it is vital that Aarhus get control of today's situation with waiting times, corridor Asians and increasing population growth before new patients can be transferred. People need that kind of security. This is important, not only for the patients to be transferred, but also for those who are patients at Aarhus today. That's why I'm very happy that the majority write in the setting that it's not relevant to transfer these patients until the experience from Grorud and Stovner is evaluated. We are also very pleased with the statements made by the Minister of Health about the future of Aker as a pilot project for a lifestyle and interaction hospital, and that it has been established that the sale of Aker is not on the agenda. It is important that it is established in a situation where the Managing Director of Oslo University Hospital has on two occasions proposed sales and the board has had to intervene against this. Fighting social health inequalities is a major concern for us, and Aker already has solid skills in chroniclers, minority health, obesity, coal, diabetes, psychiatry – all these typical issues for the east of Oslo. The Oslo Workers' Party supports Oslo University Hospital's plans to gather specialised medicine at Aker, Ullevål and the Rikshospital within one clinic structure, but that does not mean that the entire metropolitan hospital must be physically built together in Ullevål's area. Urology is one of several good examples of a competence that is mainly concentrated in Aker. As the representative of the Hagebakken underlined, it is important that there are now rapid signals about which departments and environments of competence will remain grouped in Aker in the foreseeable future, in order to prevent them from going into disintegration, and that people escape from their jobs. It is the safety of citizens for a good health service that must be the most important thing in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1353	I listened with interest to the intervention of the representative of the Tore Hagebakken in this matter. He stressed that Aker Hospital is a good hospital with strong professional environments. He stressed the importance of providing better health services to all. He was unsure whether it was possible to maintain the urological ward at Aker Hospital. He was in doubt if it was possible to establish a metropolitan guard and an interaction arena at the current Aker hospital. Then I just sat waiting for the conclusion, namely, for Tore Hagebakken to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party not to shut down Aker Hospital. There are so many uncertainties about the situation that will arise in connection with closure that it will be irresponsible. I want to make a quote too. I quote: ‘No local hospital shall be closed.’ It's taken from the Soria Moria statement on page 39. I'll make another quote. ‘No local hospital shall be closed.’ It's from Soria Moria II, page 45. And that's probably the worst thing about this case, that the government parties say one thing and make it the opposite. They promise not to lay down a single local hospital throughout Norway, and the first thing they do when they enter into everyday life – in government, during the election period – is to set in motion and do the very opposite of what they have promised in these two declarations, which are the main political documents that underpin the work of the Government. This contributes to political disdain. This is a lifting breach that is so blatant and so brutal that people react with disbelief that a government can do something like this after promising not to shut down a single local hospital. Geir-Ketil Hansen indicated that this is not just a hospital debate. No, I totally agree with that. This is a question of political morality. That is what this debate is primarily about. That it's too bad to put Aker Hospital down, says itself in a city that has had a population growth of 150,000 people in 25 years. Population growth only in Oslo itself has been of the size of a smaller Norwegian state. It is not the time to reduce treatment capacity but to increase it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1376	The representative Per Arne Olsen made a point that the Center Party is only for land and not for city. Then I would like to mention that Norway's largest central party municipality, measured in the number of heads, is called Bergen City, with over 4,000 central parties. It was claimed that the Center Party does not regard Aker Hospital as a local hospital, all the time when the hospital is in a central stroke. In the newspaper on December 4th, I state that ‘Aker is a kind of local hospital’ and that I ‘have great respect for all structural changes in the health care system’. In the case of Soria Moria declaration II and the wording ‘No local hospital to be closed’, it is quite special here that there is a case with a long history. It has made clear political decisions, including the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, where we have given Health Southeast the clear mission that they must reorganize the hospital operations and make them more efficient. In addition, political decisions have been taken to build a new hospital. This is not the case many other places. And when a person talks about morals and political arrogance: if one cannot stand for previous political decisions, it can also contribute most to political arrogance. The point is that, after all, it has a large geographical disparity in the hospital budget. In the capital area it has been a clear over-consumption. It has been a major political issue in many electoral campaigns around the country, which also the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in the country have been very concerned about. We say in this case that the offer is now to be evaluated in order to ensure that one receives good specialist health services also in the capital city area, and that Aker hospitals have a great potential to be transformed into a cooperative venue for lifestyle diseases, chronically ill, rehabilitation and other health services where large growth is expected. The Progress Party is centrally located in the Municipality of Oslo and can be a driver for this cooperation to be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1390	You can try to transfer responsibility to the municipality of Oslo, but that is not why we are debating this matter today. The responsibility lies with the Government and the red-green – and a few other parties, who have joined the government parties and voted against the proposal. And the proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the continued operation of Aker Hospital so that the patient offer is not impaired and the existing capacity is used until the necessary capacity is fully developed.’ This is only in favour of the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, despite the fact that the Council of State from this pulpit stated that patients should not be moved until it is as good, no better – she added – offer to patients, and nothing should be transferred until this is the case. Well, then you should actually pay tribute to this proposal and say, this is in line with what I am saying from the pulpit. But in the next breath you say: it wasn't appropriate building mass, it was overcapacity, not appropriate structure, we need to have better use of resources, etc. It came later. You're stuck on the first one, but it's the opposite of what you say later. It's a contradiction. So it's to remind you that there are already Corridor Asians on Ahus. The closure of Aker Hospital is a failure statement, because it is clear that the capacity of Aarhus and the hospital structure in Health South-East is undersized. The policy pursued by the Government expects growth in the population of Oslo of 200,000 people over a 10- to 15-year period, as well as the population growth referenced by the representative Marthinsen – well, at 90 000 in Akershus. It's undersized. Statistical central agency has said that so and so much growth will be. Every year more people come and live in Oslo than the statistics show. This should also be taken into account when looking at hospital capacity. There is nothing to suggest that there will be fewer. And the people who come to Norway often need more hospital services than the general population, because they often come from poor areas, and they need more. The experience has also shown that. Furthermore, we are facing an older wave – it is a negatively charged word, but at least many more older people, who will need more hospital services and not fewer hospital services. However, you choose to lay down Aker Hospital at this point in time. It doesn't make any sense. So little to the representatives of the Oslo Workers' Party. I've been leading the osloben for a few more years. So we have had a unanimous oslobe that has always walked around and said: we do not accept this, we do not find ourselves in it – not least the representative Nybakk and the representative of Bohemia, who have been very active in the closure of the Aker hospital, and are not even present in the Chamber today and simply do not care about the debate after all. So here we have two representatives who are protesting for the world, but are in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1404	From the answer to the reply I had to the Council of State, I got the impression that in the moment that Ahus was built, one had to realize that it would lead to the closure of Aker hospitals, because, as the Council of State said, the patient basis was removed. But this isn't right. When Aarhus was built, the assumption was that Follo was going to Aker Hospital. As such, the hospital would be preserved and a local hospital that could also provide services to the population of the Groruddalen in the specific areas for which we know there is a need in this area. This is probably an example of how to sign history in order to adapt it to the conclusion you want today. And that's not enough. This whole process has been selfish. When the bodies of Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital decided this, the Council of State stressed that she was very concerned about the Interaction Reform, and that Aker Hospital was going to play a role in that context. What does the board of Oslo University Hospital do next? Well, the administration there suggests to the board that now you should sell the whole Aker and preferably on the open market, a hospital area with buildings that were handed over free of charge to the state of Oslo Municipality in its time. That's the way the governing bodies and the administration have treated Aker Hospital. It says everything about what position Aker has had in this system -- that position has been equal to zero. My claim is that the Health South East administration has had this as a long-term goal all the way, and now they're getting what they want. But I have to say that during this process, you put the Council of State in embarrassment, for example. on the issue of interaction. After the show that you want to interact with the municipality of Oslo, it's going for a few days, and then the administration comes and blows it and says they want to sell the whole thing. Otherwise, they care about the fact that the Municipality of Oslo gave this to the state free of charge, and that one would have a settlement, even though it is actually in the Stortingen's position that a reasonable settlement should be made in case of change. This has been managed by the health company from the very beginning with the aim of shutting down Aker, and it is with the red-green blessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1417	The President is uncertain whether the «feeling about» is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1420	This is more than one explanation of vote. The left wants to vote in favour of the Christian People's Party and the proposals of the Progress Party, but I do not entirely agree with the argument at all levels of the case. That's why we need sail to argue why we vote as we vote. For the Left, the closure of Aker is not about construction and location. It is primarily about the security of the citizens who are being given their offer there today. All the treatment that has been done recently has not increased our security or our security that they get an equally good offer in what is planned. That is the main reason why we are voting in favour of the proposal. The national population currently cared for by Aker has a special composition. It has special challenges both within and within psychiatry. I think I'm the first left-leader in history who's gone on the 1st May train, but I did that on May 1. It was in the fight for the social rights of seafaring entrepreneurs. But there were several banners I could have gone under. I could also have gone under ‘Keep Aker’. It was touching to see all the drug addicts who went under that tab. I think that should be a warning – a warning that some people feel that much of the professional safety and many of the professional environments that keep them alive should actually be removed. Had it been another disease, I think there would have been even greater riots in the streets if you were to rage a professional environment in the same way as what you're doing here. That is the great concern of the Left. There's a concern especially about drugs and psychiatry, and there's a concern about whether there's enough room for a large part of the population, namely our most populous valley, the Groruddalen. I have to say that the dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo needs to improve when the City Council is as unanimous as it is. That's not always Oslo City Council, that's what I have to say. Then it should call some bells. I have a little comment on the last thing Syversen took up, namely locations. I was a city councillor in Oslo when the hospitals were transferred from the municipality. I was a cultural agency. That means I had nothing to do with so much other than the art collections that were in these hospitals. The government then believed that all the art that the municipality of Oslo had purchased and received in gifts would only be transferred directly to the state without a penny. That was the state's position on this. If the state's attitude to this was to be fully implemented, we would today buy back the paintings that Munch has given to the Municipality of Oslo – if this logic is to be followed. It can't be followed. Here the state has to be able to have the same idea in its head for a few years, and one has to be able to treat local democracy properly, sail if it is the municipality that the government fought against, namely Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1437	I just want to underline the starting point of the Advance Party in this matter, namely the desire to maintain the environment of competence that exists in Aker today. We are particularly concerned about the urology side, but also about lifestyle diseases and chroniclers. Our starting point is simply to maintain the necessary capacity until any alternative capacity is built up. So you can question the posts you've heard from the red-green people today about why you can't be part of this proposal. I'm going to ignore the post of the representative, Toppe, mostly in silence. I just want to say that there's still some explanation why you don't stand for what's in Soria Moria. I also want to say that there are 4,000 central parties in Bergen, not making the Senter Party an urban party – but it's scary. Since the representatives Jan Bøhler and Marit Nybakk have no opportunity to be here today, I thought that I would only be allowed to make a few quotes from what they have said in the media about this matter, so that at least what they think has come to light. I want to quote first Jan Bøhler: «Aisle must be built up and not down. It must again be the East Side Hospital, declared he determined." That's what he said to the Newspaper. Furthermore, Marit Nybakk spoke to the same newspaper – it's strange, they speak largely to this newspaper: ‘If the plans to close Aker Hospital are maintained, the Minister of Health must intervene and stop it, says Nybakk.’ She goes on to say, ‘The Battle of Aker is by no means over. Oslo politicians at Stortinget are in Harmony with the proposal for closure.’ [[...]] We don't see much of that rabbit today. Nybak has further stated: ‘It is a democratic problem that we do not have the right to co-determination. Reorganisation of the hospital sector in Oslo is so extensive and dramatic that the political environment must have a minimum of influence.’ That influence could be asserted today by being present in the hall and saying what you mean. In addition, Jan Bøhler said: ‘At the same time, the hospital with the greatest competence and experience in lifestyle diseases and chronic disorders cannot be closed down. That's why it's politically impossible to put Aker down. If you do that, there will be a health wall between Groruddalen and the rest of Oslo, says Bøhler." In the end, I could imagine making another quote from Bohemia, which I also think is good. In the newspaper, it said: «Jan Bøhler, Head of the Oslo Workers' Party, has engaged in the fight for Aker Hospital. We have to do the opposite of what HSE suggests. Aker Hospital is the main instrument against social health differences, he said at an all-round meeting at Aker Hospital." I agree with the heart. I think more should listen to him in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1485	It was the representative Bent Höie who made me take the floor. He said he saw no Eastern folds that engaged in this matter – he saw no Eastern folds in the hall. There were two pieces here when he kept his post, and in the meantime we're getting even more. It is at least this way with the undersigned that I cannot tolerate the wrong that is being committed against the inhabitants of Oslo, because it may not affect myself and perhaps should benefit Eastfold and then perhaps me. That is why I am also the co-rapporteur for this proposal. What I notice is right-wing rhetoric in these kinds of cases. I remember the debate that took place in Eastfold, it was the one that got me politically active in its time. I remember very well that Right County Representative Martin Engeset at the time said that even if we had watered in money, the Right believes that the local hospital in Sarpsborg should be laid down. That was okay enough, that, that was an attitude Right had. They were in favour of centralization. There was a lot worse with the Workers' Party, because they made one promise after another, especially before election campaigns. I remember very well the headline in the newspaper the day before the election: now we trust the Workers' Party. Then the choice was won, and then you started to pick out the function by function, department after department, lay down and mess up in the professional environments, so it became very difficult to employ professionals in fixed positions. That's the way they worked there. Gradually, everyone came to the realization that we had to gather politically about the only possibility for Eastfold, to get a new central hospital. I also think that the Prime Minister, when he uses Eastfold as an example, should have it in his luggage. What has shaped the Workers' Party throughout this process is a regular lifting break. That is what I feel that this case is also about. I refer to the Soria Moria declaration and the party programs you went to elections, and then we have this that ‘No local hospital will be closed’. When we see what's happening around the country, I think the story is repeating itself. The council said there would be a better offer and nothing should be transferred until there is capacity. The proposal we are promoting today is three-thirds. It says that the government should ensure further operation, the patient offer should not be weakened, and existing capacity should be used until the necessary capacity is developed. The last two elements are agreed by the Council of State. The only thing that remains then is that ‘the government is asking the government to take care of’. That's what you take away from, that you don't want to care for that. Then I think again we are facing a new breach of promises. Then it just becomes empty words.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1502	Blaming someone for a breach of promises is really quite serious. It won't be any more true if the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party repeat it. We haven't laid down a local hospital. If you want to read the Soria Moria statement, you also have to read more than what's in one sentence. You also have to see that we need to continue a transformation, we need to continue a change in the pace of technological and medical progress that is. That is the way the committee has asked us to have an evaluation before transferring more patient areas to Aarhus. Of course, we have to do that. So now the specialist health service is so much more specialised than it was before, and the need for hospital and treatment capacity is very much met in medical departments and in a new type of interaction arena. While you used to have major heart operations, today heart operations are highly specialized and done in a completely different way. Time off cannot be compared. Cancer operations may take place within one day. You are not in the hospital, nor are you in post-treatment. The same thing applies to ulcers. While in the past there were major surgeries and hospitalizations for a long time, there is now a medical treatment. You also have to take into account that there has been a medical development that means that you can't do things the same way today as you did before. Then the big challenge is that we get more elderly, more of whom have also been involved, and more lifestyle diseases, and addicts are a group that needs to be better cared for. We can take better care of them in Aker. If we get to the future-oriented interaction arena in Aker together with the Municipality of Oslo, we can really take care of addicts in a better way. Now there's a rusakut. It's going to be fully operational from August, with a bedpost. Then we can get better at caring for what very large groups need: treating lifestyle diseases like diabetes, dementia, alcohol, psychiatry and coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1515	I just want to make it clear that for Oslo Arbeiderparti it is very important that our citizens are guaranteed the best possible health care. It's not about going against collecting specialist health services in a big city hospital. We are in favour of a comprehensive conversion of the local hospitals, in line with the Cooperation Reform. It must apply to all, both public and private hospitals, in all parts of the country. We should collect highly specialised medicine in fewer hospitals, convert the local hospitals into, among other things. meeting life-style diseases and the needs of chroniclers and elderly people with complex disorders. It is in line with the Soria Moria II Declaration, which advocates a better division of work between hospitals, that they can do other tasks than today. Our commitment now is to ensure that patients are not transferred until it is sound. With the vote by the majority, it shall be exercised. It's about making sure that the buildings on Aker are not sold. Here we have the health minister's assurances that it is not on the agenda. We are committed to getting the pilot project that the Minister of Health is now warning. It will be an important offer to balance social health differences. It's about coal, diabetes, obesity, all of these issues that are typical of the population of Oslo east. Rusakutt will be an important part of the offer. We are also concerned that the new metropolitan guard is being put there. It's in the hands of the City Council. But I want to stress how important it is, because here Oslo's patients have great unmet needs that make too many go on until they get seriously ill. Adding a major urban guard to a highly specialised hospital such as Ullevål will be unfortunate both for patients and for resource use and in contravention of the very basic idea of the Cooperation Reform. The project to make Aker a pilot for interaction in lifestyle diseases, an environment specialising in the very special challenges facing the Groruddalen population, which is about minority health, which is about chroniclers, which are about many older people with complex disorders, is a result of the heavy involvement of the Oslo Workers' Party in these issues. And standing on this pulpit and doubting our commitment to the health of the population in the Groruddalen is just too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1526	This time I will not doubt the involvement of Oslo Workers' Party representatives for patients and residents in the Groruddalen, but I will say a little about Hagebakken, who talked about the importance of playing «on the team» – and then he talked about the department and the municipality of Oslo – and about the council that was then free enough to say that she expected a «constructive dialogue». I intend to make a few quotations regarding an agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Municipality of Oslo from 2002 – it is a bit to the representative of the Syversen regarding building masses, etc. – where it says the following: ‘Recovery clauses shall be attached to all permanent property positions. This means that the property position shall be returned free of charge to the Municipality of Oslo if it is decided upon, disposed of or otherwise used for other purposes.» A little later, it says: ‘After the parties had negotiated the outcome referred to’ — this is a specific note in the Protocol — ‘in this Protocol, information has been provided that Health East RHF’ — as it was then called — ‘assess plans proposing the closure of Aker Hospital in favour of the construction of a new hospital in Follo. Oslo Municipality regrets the uncertainty created around the further operation of Aker Hospital and assumes that the Ministry of Health ensures further operation for Oslo very important hospitals. Oslo Municipality requires surrender clauses for all permanent property positions. If Aker Hospital is closed and disposed of and a new hospital is not built for replacement in the Municipality of Oslo, the Municipality of Oslo requires that the property with all property positions be returned to the Municipality of Oslo.» For the rest of my case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1543	I have two questions for the Council of State. I meant to hear that the council said we haven't laid down a local hospital. My question is, Isn't Mandal Hospital closed by the Stoltenberg I government? The second question is, how has the Council of State intended to follow up and ensure that Health South-East follows the clear assumptions that the Council of State says she has put before the process further, that there is a politically guided process? The background to the question is experience that if the entries are included in the mission documents of regional enterprises, they are very often not followed up. Let me just do a little example that's fresh. In the context of the State budget for this year, the funding of physiotherapy in some outpatient clinics was relocated so that direct funds were no longer allocated to hospital outpatient clinics. There were hospitals. It was then said in this room that this was to be maintained, and the Council of State included in the mission documents for 2010 – I think it was good – that these offers should be maintained further. This was done despite the changes in the financial instrument, it was then said. This was about pool cleaning for thousands of different groups of chroniclers. It was about physiotherapy services for newly-operatives, etc. The change was made, the pool was closed, and the physiotherapy service was reduced for many patient groups. This was a result of something being included in the mission documents. That shouldn't happen. Despite the fact that it is there clearly, these offers are terminated, and the Department and the Council of State allow this to happen. That's why I'm asking, how are you going to follow up on these assumptions that are now being followed? Is it just going to be written in the mission documents, or are you going to make sure that it happens in another way? I'm worried, because regional health companies are doing a lot today, without, in my opinion, being able to have the necessary political governance with what's going on, and that creates uncertainty. So now we see that a large group loses an entirely life-giving, decisive offer around in some outpatient clinics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1562	The size goes to voting. Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters in case No. 1 has already been adopted for consideration in a later meeting. In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1573	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1608	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, from Arve Kambe on behalf of Right
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1632	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:64 S [[2009-2010]] The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Left support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1658	During the debate Per Arne Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-04.ana.ud1413e1711	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
