ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e139	Honourable co-representatives! Former senior representative Kristin Kverneland Wohningdal is dead, 87 years old. Kristin Wohnningdal was born on 1 January 1923 in Stavanger. She graduated artium in 1942 and pharmacies degree in 1947. She was a trained pharmacist and work at the pharmacy in Risør, Tvedestrand and Stavanger. In 1963, Kristin Wohnningdal was elected to Stavanger City Council and chairmanship of the Right. Until 1973 she had a number of trusts in both public and political bodies. She was a member of the County Council and County Committee, and from 1969 to 1974 she was a member of the Right Central Government. She was also a member of the Departmental Board of the House Bank of the West and an alternate member of the Board of Governors of Statoil. Kristin Lönningdal was alternate to the Stortinget for Rogaland for two periods, from 1965 to 1973. In the fall of 1973, she was elected as a permanent representative of the Right. She was re-elected in 1977, but she made re-elections at the 1981 Grand Prix. In the first period, she was a member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee and subsequently of the Financial Committee. During the time she was a permanent representative of the Stortinget, she was delegated to the UN General Assembly and a member of the board of the Stortinget Group of the Interparliamentary Union. Kristin Lönningdal was secretary of state in Odelstinget from 1977 until she was elected vice-president in the same thing in the fall of 1980. Kristin Lönningdal was appointed County of Rogaland in 1981 and held this office for ten years. Kristin Wohnningdal's commitment to Stortinget was far-fetched. She was interested in many tasks – from housing and hospital policy to environmental protection and economic policy. She was concerned about the individual's right and of helping those who felt that they were coming to a brief moment in the meeting with public bureaucracy. These were questions that she was deeply concerned about in her actions as a countyman. Kristin Wohnningdal had a clear profile. She was always right on the matter and asserted her opinions clearly and unequivocally, while she was constantly emboldened by a friendly spirit towards colleagues and employees. We remember Kristin Kverneland Wage Valley for her work in the Storting and shines peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e163	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Progress Party of Great Britain to the representative Åse Michaelsen from 11 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Tor Sigbjørn Aussogn, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e181	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e184	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on an extended and binding investment plan for Norwegian railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e189	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e192	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vogskesen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals for an extended and binding national investment plan for the main road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e198	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e201	I have the exquisite pleasure to make proposals on behalf of the representatives Siri A. Meling, Line Henriette Hemdal, Borghild Tenden and myself to extend the rental period for hydropower plants to 30 years. I will then, on behalf of the representatives Siri A. Meling, Line Henriette Hemdal, Borghild Tenden and myself, present proposals on small power plants in the transitional scheme for green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e208	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e211	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Per Sandberg and myself, it is a great honour to propose restrictions on the social rights of foreign criminals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e216	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e230	As the President said, we have, for consideration, proposed 14 S by Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left. This is a proposal with almost the same wording as previous proposals, which have been examined on three occasions, in 2000–2001, 2003–04 and 2007–08. As in previous readings, the Presidency proposes that the proposal be rejected. The background, and the rationale, for it is very much the same as in previous discussions on similar proposals, namely that we perceive it as a quality at Norwegian level that it is very open and accessible, and that it is easy for Norwegian citizens to get in touch with the representatives of Storting. We still think that should be the situation. And as for the specific content of point 1 of the proposal, which concerns Stortinget, it would not have been a register just for professional lobbyists, but a register of any person who wants to contact a depositor. That is what we believe will reduce the quality of democracy, that is, the ease of access to the Biggest. This time we have had a relatively thorough review of the different forms of lobbying in other countries and found that there is little experience to gain from the approach of the proposal, namely by simply having a register of arrival in Stortinget. For example, a system has been set up in the European Parliament to register as a lobbyist and thus gain access to the European Parliament, but it is therefore a completely different solution to what is proposed in the proposal for a representative. This does not mean that the presidency does not seem to think that many of the implications of lobbying are worth discussing – and there has been a good and broad discussion about it in the last few months. It itself contributes to awareness of who influences the political processes. We therefore believe that there is an important debate, but to a large extent a debate different from that addressed in the proposed representative. We know, for example. that many of the activities of professional PR agencies would just not be covered by a Stortingen register, because it takes place to a very large extent either by meeting the representatives of the Stortingen outside the Stortinge or, perhaps mainly, by being an adviser to those who meet in the Stortinge – but not even meet in the Stortinge – for example. in the context of consultations. Nevertheless, we think it is important to have a live discussion about it, and here I believe we have something to learn from other countries. For example, for the type of arrangements that exist substantially in other countries, we are. have been introduced by decision in 2005, concerning the quarantine of policy-makers either from the type of public relations agency or as per. definition has unknown customer mass, or for the sake of those who leave the policy and enter the type of public relations activity. The intention of the 2005 decision was to organise this in a good way. This has now been practised since 2005, with discussions, for example: about who is being treated in the Quarantine Committee, who is receiving quarantine, and not least who is not receiving quarantine, and the difference between those receiving quarantine and those who are being banned. The Presidency believes it is important to look at all of these things in the light of the experience we have. That's why we're asking the government to provide an assessment of the experience with the quarantine regulations. I would like to stress that in the public debate on this issue, it has been claimed that quarantine rules prevent the transition from policy to private business and, in particular, from private business to politics. I am concerned that we should include representatives of private business in Norway in the policy as well. But it's not like a consulting industry that has hidden the mass of members, and that aims to influence decisions in the big business and government, is the same thing as any private sector job in a company where you know who you're working for. Something special about the industry – and then I think about the professional part of the industry – is that you have hidden customer mass. A minority in the Presidency might say something about part of the setting that is about that. At the same time, there are many, for example: Some lawyers, who provide advice on how to communicate with and influence public authorities, and they have the legal protection of the right – they are actually required – to keep hidden who are their clients. So there's a lot of dilemmas about this question. Then there is another theme that has been central to the debate, and on which the Presidency has also spent time. This is the question of access to Stortinget by former staging representatives. It is true that some former representatives of big business also help to guide how to deal with the public and political decision-making process. It was clarified, or decided, during the previous ageing period that former staging representatives could not bring others in. So you can't be a host in Stortinget based on your access card to Stortinget. I think that was an important clarification, because it has also happened that the representatives of Storting may be somewhat uncertain whether former colleagues are here professionally or whether they are here as former colleagues. The Presidency is prepared to make this very clear, of course, that the invitation to have a sign of access to the Stortinget is to be able to visit the Stortinget and former colleagues as a former representative, not intended to be a sign of access used in another professional context. So the Presidency is ready to make this clear. And then I'll finally be allowed to say that there's been a lot of discussions about people who come from the PR industry, people who go to the PR industry, and in some cases also representatives who work in the PR industry. It's also the Presidency's view that it's not all things we can manage to regulate by law. So at the end of the day, the representatives of the Storting are not employed by the Presidency. They're actually not employed by anyone. Nor can the Presidency ask someone who is an alternate to the Stortinget, to quit the job he has, to start another job. Ultimately, this is also about the parties being aware of how they deal with their candidates, and how parties and candidates are assessed by their voters. Some of this discretion will also have to lie in the very essence of democracy in the future. It is a matter of trust, and to a large extent it is a question of the responsibility of the parties for maintaining that trust. On that basis, I would recommend that Stortinget adopt the current state of affairs of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e249	I think we all agree on the importance of protecting the value of having an open magnification and easy access to us magnification representatives, and the importance of great transparency around political processes. Now I see from the vote that the presidency sees Left's proposal so that there are only meetings or attempts at impact here in the house that are covered by the proposal for a registration. I have to admit, I'm a little overreacting to this definition. It may well be in line with how the Left defines its own proposal, but I still support this definition of the concept of the Greatness, because I think it is difficult to limit it to the building. I think it has to be understood that it includes the bodies of the Storting and us representatives. It's now once that we make up the Storting. In any case, this would quickly become a problem if the proposal had been adopted and the result was – as President-in-Office Dag Terje Andersen pointed out, and as pointed out in the vote – that the meeting business was moved across the street to the Grand Hotel. Then I think one would quickly get a new definition of the term Stortinget. That is why we must avoid red tape. We need rules that are practical. I think that over a week, we all have a lot of requests that could fall into the category of impact trials, even if the interests behind or the matter are involved, may be different in scale and weight, and especially if we are concerned that heavy economic interests should be gained more easily than interests with small resources. I was at a meeting yesterday at the United Nations Association in Skien. On the way to the station after the meeting, the manager took up with me an old campaign case for this organisation, namely to make the UN day official flag day. It was an attempt to influence. Should it have been listed in such a register or not? For this is a matter of limited scope, to say the least. But what if he had tried to express the desire for increased allocation to the UN connection? Would it have been within or outside a registration obligation? The point of mentioning these banal examples is that the boundary between what was to be kept outside, and what was to be within the obligation to register, very quickly – daily – could prove to be demanding. Politics is, of course, a draw between different interests and different interests, and I think most of what is happening in that drag fight – whether it is trying to set the agenda or to take care of its interests – is happening in public space, and often with extensive and charitable use of the media. At least I have the benefit of experiencing that someone in hiding has tried to influence the outcome of a case through me, either as a magnificence representative, as a political adviser or as a state secretary in the government apparatus. The most serious example of hidden relations that I know about staging representatives is the former staging representative and Prime Minister Kåre Willoch's extra salary, first from the Shipowners' Association and then as a split layer between the Shipowners' Association and the Industry Association. However, we are now going to have to have transparency in the register of financial interests. That is why we support the position of the majority, which is in line with the assessments that have also been widely agreed on in the past, with regard to the proposal to set up a register. I believe the key here is openness about the contact between stakeholder organisations etc. and the bodies of the Storting and us as representatives. Here we all have a responsibility for ensuring transparency. I agree with what President Andersen said, that it may be useful to have a review of the basis of access to this house, also in the case of former magnificence representatives, so that both we who are here and receive visits, and those who come to visit, are aware of the quality in which they visit us. It is not written in the Basic Law, as far as I know, that former staging representatives should have access to this house in line with sitting staging representatives. So the collegial system is also something you can think about through the necessity of. The Presidency then proposes a review of the quarantine regulations. We agree. I want to refer to the reason given in the article. We need to get a regulation where the provisions are based on clear considerations, also in order to make the job of the Quarantine Committee as simple as possible, so that a person is given a clearer decision-making basis. We need a thorough review, because here, too, there are considerations that need to be weighed against each other. Such an obvious consideration is of course the inside information you can bring with you from a job, especially in the government apparatus, but also here in the house, to the next one. How long will it take for it to expire? The network you're bringing with you is getting a lot slower, which is a problem with the time span you're going to have on the quarantine. Do you want to distinguish between those who set up their own consultancy firms and those employed in information agencies or in the media or those employed in organisations that want that kind of competence inside? We also need to think through the issues of professional bans, even if it will be of a temporary nature. If the way back to civil professional life after a time here in the house, especially in the government, gets too squirmy – what does the recruitment of politics do? Democracy is based on people choosing their own representatives, and therefore we have very few restrictions on who can be elected to this Chamber. We must also take care of the fact that people have been in this room and in government offices and should return to civil – and perhaps come back to politics again. It's a bit like football – a lot of people walk between the track and the reserve bench. There must also be room for that in the policy. That's why we're going to make sure that they don't do things that don't tolerate the light of the day, when they're on the reserve bench or when they're on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e270	I strongly agree with the assessments made by the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy and the representative of Sven Roald Hansen, and the Right supports the conclusion of the majority of the Presidency. Let me also start by saying that the Right is pleased that the Presidency is asking for a review of the quarantine regulations. Such an evaluation would be sensible for several reasons, now that they have been practised for a period of time. I show you, among other things: to the issues raised in the transition from policy to advice in the last year. But I also think it is important to raise the issue of the transition between counselling and policy, especially in relation to government, where it is not known which customers the advisors have had before entering a political position in a department. It's a problem that it'll be useful to really go through. With regard to the proposal itself, as I have said, both the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy and the representative of Svein Roald Hansen have gone through the arguments that contradict, and I am in full agreement with it. One question is, is it the public's right to know who big business representatives are talking to, and what are you talking about? I agree that transparency is important around a decision-making process, but at the end of the day, it is the decisions that politicians are making that are to be evaluated, and not who we are talking to at all times. I believe that it casts a light on the intelligence of the representatives. These are the decisions to be evaluated, and I think it is important that we as representatives have the freedom to talk to whom we want, whenever we want. The second is the question of achieving what is intended — transparency. If you define the transparency of meetings going on in Stortinget, or in premises related to Stortinget, we know that such meetings will be moved out of Stortinget very quickly if you don't want it to be open about it. That is the question of whether the proposers have achieved what they wanted. In addition, there is the question of whether such a register will help to lift the barrier in order to make contact with Stortinget. I don't think the lobbyists or the big companies that you have here a desire for openness around will feel such a barrier, but there may be other groups that don't have the same interest in being registered when they have a meeting with a representative. The last is that this proposal also does not cover other information flows that had to occur between lobbyists and politicians in the form of telephone calls, e-mails or notes. I therefore believe that the proposal will be a blow in the air, where what you want is not achieved, namely greater transparency. I also think it is important that, as representatives, we maintain the freedom to meet whomever we want, whenever we want, and to talk about what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e287	Open influence is an entirely legitimate part of Norwegian democracy. It is – and should be – a high door and a wide gate for people who want to visit the Stortinge to present their case and their arguments. The democratic problems arise only when the attempts to influence paid information advisors are carried out in secret. While traditional lobbying is characterised by professional lobbyists promoting the case on behalf of others, the situation in Norway is that companies engaged in information consulting act as invisible backers of the sponsors, who themselves have contact with politicians. The left's proposal is directed towards traditional lobbying, and although such a lobbying register is a good idea and SV supports the intentions behind the proposal, a lobbying register alone will not solve the problem we're looking to solve. Firstly, a lobby register could quickly mean that the contact between Stortinget and the lobbyists is moved out of Stortinget, and then we are equally far, even though I had hoped – and I am almost sure – that the staging representatives respect the laws they themselves adopt. But as others before me have said, the father is present so that such a law can still be circumvented. Secondly, the main problem today is not that Stortinget is run down by professional lobbyists. Rather, I would like to say that there could have been more people coming to the Stortinget and telling them what they thought about politics, what they thought was important to Norway, which way they think development should take. These include: therefore SV has completed many lobby courses for partner organisations, to learn the tricks free of charge, the tricks for which others have to pay dearly. That's why SV has also arranged their own recording rounds for the state budget, at the latest this winter, as we call 'Gi SV message', how many small – known and unknown – stakeholder organisations get to come and meet big business representatives and make recordings to next year's government budget. What is important in this matter is what we call, in other contexts – if the President allows it – ‘professional backers’. What has made this matter up to date is that well-known politicians, such as former Wraith representative Carl I. Hagen and former representative and councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, have been employed in professional advisory companies that hire out their services, including lobbyists, for good money to the companies and the interests that can afford to pay for them. That's where the problems arise, when professional backers sell their advice on how to win in democracy, for several thousand dollars an hour, to those who can afford to buy these advices. Then the influence is no longer open and direct, but indirect and hidden. They're the ones with the most money that can afford to buy the most expensive services. Therefore, SV's introduction to this case has been primarily to do something about the fact that the information advisory companies today do not indicate who they have as customers, and to what extent, and that this is where we should do something. SV therefore believes that information advisors should be open about who they have as sponsors. Without such transparency, such a lobby register as the Left proposes – and as we in SV think is a good idea – will be necessary, but not sufficient. There should be available customer lists to identify organisations, businesses, public authorities and politicians who have paid for their services. The SV has therefore called for the Government to submit proposals to amend company law with a view to imposing full transparency on companies where all or part of their activities are based on information advice on the part of contracting entities which are in contact with the authorities. Then I register that the parties at Stortinget, with the exception of SV and Left, do not want to go into the proposals to tighten up their professional lobbying against Stortinget. I'm sorry about that. I had especially hoped that the parties that have been in the wind in connection with the fact that former party tops have notified the transition to information consulting companies recently would be involved in highlighting clarity and tightening up their response to this in order to take a clear and clear position on the matter. I'm recording that this isn't happening. However, I have registered with pleasure that there is an agreement in the Presidency to look at the quarantine regulations, and look forward to this review. That means that the matter is moving forward, albeit at a low speed. I therefore take up the minority's proposal from the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e310	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the suggestions he referred to. A comment from the President: I believe that the representative Akhtar Chaudhry is using the term ‘professional advisors’ about what he calls ‘professional backers’ in this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e315	It's rare I start an article in the hall by saying that I agree with everything that Jan Tore Sanner said. I am today. I also agree with everything Svein Roald Hansen said – I am a little more often, but not always. That's a great deal of consensus. The hall we're sitting in was drawn by Langlet as an open hall with the rotunda, so that the hall would be outside among the people. We're in a room that was supposed to be openness around. When we have debates, there are always people in the gallery. All the debates in this Chamber are open. All the matters that come to the Stortinget are promoted through this pulpit, and all the decisions are taken in this Chamber. Everything happens openly when decisions are made in the Storting, and the whole form of work and history of the Storing are marked by transparency. There are many good intentions behind the proposal to the Left. The reason why the Central Party is going to agree with the majority of the Presidency is that we don't think it's going to solve any problem. We're also a little bit unsure of what the problem is. It is a great strength in the Norwegian biggest that we have cultivated the Ombudsman's role, that we have met with many people on many occasions. Most of the meetings are with rapporteurs, LO and different types of interest groups. In the five years I've been to Stortinget, there have been very few meetings with so-called professional lobbyists from lobbying agencies. It's a little phenomenon, but they're behind it. The question is also: how can you create a system that captures all the meetings and all the contact points that each depositor has with different actors? That system is not possible to create, and then it quickly becomes suspicious and troubled instead of solving the problem. So there are several people who have had posts before who have said that it can lead to meetings outside, instead of meetings in the house, if we're going to have a system that just records the meetings in the house. At least we do not want that. The size shall be the single political meeting place. That's where the discussions are going to happen, and everyone should be able to get here. If there is a warning in the UDI or somewhere else that reacts to something, he should also be able to come to the Stortinget and know that his boss e.l. shall not be able to read in a register that he has had contact with us, who are the representatives of the people, and who shall dry to be critical of power and dry to speak with them in the systems which are not satisfied with power. That was point 1. Point 2 is the quarantine code. I think it makes sense now, after we've run the code from the Bondevik II administration, to take a review and see what's the strengths, and what's the weaknesses. We had a big debate last autumn about people who went from the government apparatus to the PR industry. Now we have enough experience to make an evaluation. We can tighten up where it is needed and, if necessary, make other changes to that legislation. So the Central Party supports the presidency there. Then it makes sense, too, the President of the House, Mr. Terje Andersen, to have a review of the work of former representatives of the big business here in the house. It is in the interest of all of us that there is cleanliness and clear rules around it. There have been some doubts, which I have also experienced myself. That's why it's good that someone now takes a round and looks at that code.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e332	The relationship between lobbyists and the communication industry on the one hand and politicians on the other has been updated recently by several singles in the media. Not least, the quarantine rules for the members of the Government have been subject to attention. Therefore, the Christian People's Party also believes that it is important and right that the Stortinget today asks the Government to review the experience of the Quarantine Code and present the experience to the Stortinget. With regard to the Left's proposal for a registration scheme for lobbyists, the Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that the disadvantages with it are more than the benefits. It is an important value that there are low thresholds to address decision-makers. This closeness between people, organisations, businesses and communities on the one hand and central politicians on the other is worth protecting over. The Christian People's Party fears that the registration system proposed can contribute to higher thresholds. The professional actors always manage, but ordinary people can feel that it's wrong to make contact. In addition, a register can help the representatives to limit more precisely who they are listening to, for fear of creating an impression of being ‘in the pocket’ on one or the other. In this case, the registry may inhibit the important and positive part of the lobbying activity. On the other hand, it is a fact that lobbying has evolved to become more professional over the years. Greater openness around this business is desirable, and here the Christian People's Party shares the intentions of the proposers. More transparency can help citizens to better understand important parts of the political decision-making process and to increase confidence in the proper adoption of policy decisions. But the Christian People's Party questions whether the proposed register will be suitable and effective to create the desired transparency. Contact other than the personal encounter at Stortinget shall, for example: not recorded. For example, e-mail and SMS contacts are outside. Meetings held elsewhere also fall outside. Therefore, it is natural to ask whether the scheme outlined will contribute to a proper picture of the lobbying impact on Stortinget. The scheme may also have adverse effects by suspecting that meetings are being held outside the Storting for some reason. Do you do this because you want to avoid registration? It'll be an obvious follow-up from the press. The other side of this is that the meetings and contacts that may be the main reason for public disclosure are deliberately left outside the Storting. None of our Nordic neighbouring countries have introduced such a registration system as proposed. Several countries have taken this debate and have concluded as the majority do today. After these counter-representations, I would like to say that there are also good arguments for the Left's proposal, and the Left shall have the credit for a clear line in the work of transparency in the public domain. The Christian People's Party shares the Left's intention of greater transparency, but is not convinced that the proposed system will be an effective tool in this way. And it's important for the Christian People's Party to keep the threshold low for single citizens when it comes to making contact with decision-makers. In any case, the challenges of lobbyism must be met with clear views of the individual representative and party group with regard to whom you want to meet, etc. If this debate contributes to a greater awareness of this, it is positive and important in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e353	The proposal under consideration today, from the Left, is not a proposal on lobbyism. It's a proposal for transparency. Lobbyism is good for democracy. Lobbyism is, in fact, the basis of democracy, because it is that we, as big business representatives, are given a completely different light on matters. I think there's very little we do that we need to hide. I actually don't think there's any of what we do that we need to hide. But we're at a time when one notices that the political outrage is increasing, then the confidence in decisions we make is falling, as the conspiracy theories about who talks together become more. Then we have to do something. Then we must take action to increase confidence in our democracy. Trust in democracy is based on one word: openness. It is the very process of thinking about democracy, transparency about decisions, transparency about who has affected – openness and trust. When there are representatives here and they say that if someone knew who to meet, it would have defined who you had listened to. Do you really mean that? You mean, if someone knew about a meeting, you wouldn't have had it? If the representative Becquerad had it, what kind of meeting would it have been? What kind of meeting can you imagine politicians wouldn't have had if someone had known about it? Then maybe they shouldn't have that meeting, if you have those types of meetings. It's not possible to regulate everything. I very much agree with that. A lot of systems here in the house are based on trust. A lot of the regulation here in the house and in our democracy is based on trust. But here one assumes in a way that if we make a system over who influences us, someone will take advantage of it. It's a system that we don't trust anyone to follow, where we don't trust that the deposit representatives are going to tell us that, then the depositors are going to find another venue to talk to. There is a fundamental lack of confidence that someone should use such a system. The left has suggested a number of things related to transparency up through history, and we've basically met the same arguments each time. I just want to point out the story when we decided to open hearings here at Stortinget. Then there were exactly the same arguments, that when the hearings came to be uninteresting, then no one was going to care about what happened there, then things were going to be moved into enclosed spaces, and the hearings were going to lose their interest. It's the same as when we fought for open committee meetings around the local government. If it became transparent, so that someone heard what the politicians said at these committee meetings, they were going to be completely immaterial. No one was going to care about them. Nothing important happened at a committee meeting in a municipality because it became transparent. Those are the exact same arguments. The same was true when we were to introduce the Public Health Act. There are many things that are not organized in relation to the Public Health Act. There are a lot of things that are not part of the Public Health Act. Does this mean that you are against the Public Service Act because it does not regulate absolutely all contact in a case-by-case process? There is nothing about text messages in the Public Relations Act either. I am interested to know if anyone is against the Public Service Act because it does not regulate absolutely all contact. The center party thinks it's very important that we keep a secret who we're dealing with, because there might be a warning coming. I agree. Maybe we'll make an exception for the alerts. But it is quite strange that the Center Party believes that, because it is the same party that voted against that we should have anonymous warning when we were to have this into the law. It is the same party that thought that it should not be possible to be anonymous alerts to a company, but as it seems very important that we should have the opportunity to keep all meetings secret, linked to this. It was said earlier here: I have good pleasure meeting someone who will meet us in the hidden. I got it for good, too. All of them, most of them are proud to have been here. I can't actually come up with anyone who isn't, whether it's by telling me at the dinner table when they come home that they've been here, or there's a company or an association that likes to write in the annual report that they've been here. Then why is it so important to keep it a secret? Then why is it so important that we don't tell them that we've met them, when they like to boast that they've met us? I'm using an example here, because I think it's a good example. In my time at Stortinget, we have experienced several times that staging representatives have fought to get medicines on the blue prescription system. I think that's a good example of openness. I think many of those who have fought for it are organizations of interest for diseases. As a diabetic, I know it's important to get the new medicines on the blue prescription system. The trust in the system, the confidence in the decisions we have taken, is weakened because some people think that the pharmaceutical companies have made us take them. If we had been transparent about whether it was stakeholder organisations or the pharmaceutical manufacturers that had affected, it would have increased confidence in our decisions. I think transparency about influence on decisions increases confidence in our decisions. I am also in favour of the review, which the Presidency is talking about, in terms of the quarantine and access cards of former representatives. I see no reason to limit anything when it comes to accessing this house. But what I think is important is to know if a wholesaler is here at the coffee shop, or if he has $50,000 a year to fight for a bridge. Then I want to know which bridge. I want to have an overview of what the former wholesale representatives have been paid to go here and lobby for. So they have to do it. Then I know, when someone sits at my coffee table, what he has as a theme and wants to talk to me about. It's okay. There's transparency that's the solution to trust. There is transparency that can counteract the crisis of confidence under which some of the former staging representatives have built up. It has been said that the light of suspicion is thrown over something when you have openness around it. No, it's actually the exact opposite. It's the light of suspicion that is thrown over something when you don't have openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e383	Lobby business is a good thing. The work of the aggregate shall be characterised by being open and accessible. I think that to a large extent is the case today. But we have to recognize that the power of society is divided differently. Some have more resources than others and can therefore influence more. They have more power. They have more resources for lobbying. So I have a great sense of Left's proposal. But there's something inside of this. There are three conditions I want to develop. One is that it only applies to those who are looking for the Storting. The second is that it is only those who are looking for the size to influence, to be covered, and that it is limited to issues for treatment in the Stortinge. I do not believe that the Left's proposals meet the needs we have. In the last period, or before I was elected to the Stortinget, I became aware of what is perhaps the country's most powerful lobby, the so-called oil lobby. This is not a lobby that is characterized by being in reception in the Stortinget or department and waiting for political direction. What characterises powerful lobby organisations is that they know that central government is big, and they invest a lot of resources to work against powerful officials and bureaucrats in departments and directorates. This will not catch up with the proposals of the Left. I think that is a much more interesting debate. And then you can also look at what you can do to lower the threshold, to increase the availability and to increase the transparency of the Storing. In the fall, when we discussed the budget and had the budgetary process, there were open hearings. In my committee and in many other committees, it was necessary to say no to organisations that wanted to make representations and comments on the budget at the open hearings. But the most resource-intensive and the largest organizations were in place in all committees. So I think that as elected representatives we have to be accountable to our voters, and that's what guarantees transparency. When one listens to the representative Skei Grande, a few impressions may be that there is a ban on transparency. It's not. Each representative and each batch may have full transparency about their lobbying activities. It is a bit sought when the representative Skei Grande talks about a former staging representative who was going to praise a bridge, and then she wants to know what he or she is lobbing about. I would like to think that this lobbyist is a bad lobbyist if she has had this meeting without knowing what this former staging representative is lobbing for. The parties and the individual representative shall contribute to transparency. I don't think this is the last time we have this kind of debate. I think we have to take the debate in an even broader perspective where the concept of power is more central than what I see in the Left's proposal. It's a topic that the press has addressed, which is a follow-up to the needs of the tabloid press and not the need for people out there for openness and accessibility to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e398	I'm too lobbyist because lobbyism is organized influence. In my view, we politicians should let us influence as much as possible, more than today. If that effect can be organised and good, it is much better than that it is unorganised and bad – so I am too. Therefore, this is how I read this proposal and the vote, proposals which ensure good conditions for impact, but which may contribute to two important aspects of what is important. Firstly, I am too influential and lobbyism, but at the same time I want it to be possible to influence everyone – that the most possible will be able to benefit from it in a good way. That's why it's important. As the representative Chaudhry has said, SV arranges lobby courses, where we are simply trying to contribute to our best knowledge of how to influence well. In my view, all other measures that are moving in the same direction are positive. The other important part of this is that there must be the greatest possible openness and knowledge of the influence that is taking place in a society. That is why I would like to thank the Left and the representative Skei Grande for both the article and the proposal, which I believe has to do with openness. In my view, there are two good reasons behind the proposals that are now being made. First of all, I'm of the opinion that it's of interest, also basically, for the general public, to know who big business representatives and political leadership in the departments actually meet. It's important and interesting knowledge. Let me give a concrete example: if the Ministry of the Environment treats an important protection issue of some kind, do they meet the interests of protection and business about the same amount, or is it a very different relationship? Who of the organizations and environments that are in contact actually gets to meet, and who doesn't get it? I think that's actually pretty interesting to know. I think it can lead to public and important debate in retrospect, if it turns out that there is no reasonable relationship here, and it can provide knowledge of how the political system works, and who gets there and who does not. The same thing I think could be said for all departments and for the Stortinget. The other important reason is: I think, as has been said before, that the claim that it can lead to the light of suspicion over influence if we have more openness about it, is the very opposite of what is right. Read the papers, then – the last half of the year. The newspapers are full of the light of suspicion now! I noticed that it is in the setting that if one introduces such a file as has been proposed, it may give a wrong impression of the effect. I have to say that I think it would be more correct to say that it can create a proper impression of the effect, because one would actually get knowledge, not myth, of what kind of impact happens in society. Many here have admitted that they still have the benefit of experiencing what might be called a hidden influence. I am also in that class, but I particularly noticed that the representative Hansen said – a representative with whom I work so well in committees, especially because of his very long experience in politics at very many different levels – that he has never experienced it. I also think it's incredibly little of that. But precisely because – if there is so little hidden influence going on – why is it a problem that we actually get exact knowledge about him instead of basing ourselves more on notions that much of that kind of influence is happening? Another argument that is used here in the hall, which many people have drawn up, is that a lot of influence would move out of the house if we were to register it, for example. down to Grand. I have to add that if one has a meeting that doesn't tolerate the light of the public, one might not move it to Grand, but to some place – I don't know, but a closed industrial plant in the Groruddalen or something like that can be imagined. I just have to say that if there are many such meetings at Stortinget, we will at least need far more comprehensive measures than a lobby register. But I feel almost sure that there are unlikely few such meetings. I think, on the contrary, it will continue to be so that the United Nations Association and others have their meetings at the Storting because it's actually quite fine that people know who a meeting is, and it can contribute with new knowledge. I don't think this problem will occur. Then the representative Schlagsvold Vedum, with whom I usually agree – at least in this room, I kept saying – that an example of this could be a warning. That was a good example. Then you'd probably have to go somewhere else and have it meet. Would it have been any problem with a lobby register that what happens the few times it happens isn't being registered, but being taken in another way? No, of course not. That's not what a lobby register is supposed to do. Many have tried to say that there may be many practical problems. I don't know a lot of regulations and laws where there's not a lot of practical issues that arise when you're going to introduce them. It'll be right here too. It will be in all similar situations. But they are solvable if the objective is good. It is in these cases. And then there's more, for example. The representative Pollestad, who says that we have to go after other and broader measures than just a lobby register for gambling and government. I also agree with that – absolutely. But it can't in any way be an obstacle to us doing the same thing. I will end by saying that I am pleased that the Presidency is proposing a review of the quarantine regulations now. I think I'm wise in the light of the last six months' debate. I also want to point out that there's a lot of other things than what's suggested here, which will be important, for example. the issue of transparency of customer relationships. That I am reasonably sure will come to press ahead in a few years. Here it's actually so that the industry itself has come apart longer than the multiple here has. There are several operators in the industry who operate with openness about all their customer relationships. Many people call for legislation to be introduced in this area. I'm meeting this debate with low shoulders, because I feel very sure that this, as in the rest of society, will gradually move towards more openness in this area. It just goes a little bit slower than it should.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e431	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, started his speech by saying that this is not a proposal for a register, but a proposal for transparency, and that we do not need to hide anything. I think it's completely wrong to say that because we don't have a register of who we meet, it's not openness. You don't have to put similarities between registering and transparency. It's openness. When I met former colleague Øystein Singsaas, who came to talk to us about rescue helicopters – he started the e-mail that he is a helicopter salesman, so that there was no doubt about what basis he came up with – we did so in the bigscale restaurant. It's quite demanding to hide such a meeting in the big food restaurant. I want to distance myself from that connection between registering what we're doing, and saying that because we're not doing it, it's hidden. I think that is completely wrong. But that's how the Left always argues: if you're against any proposal for change and adjustment in the disclosure law, you're against transparency. But that's not how it is. Trine Skei Grande said, I think it was for the representative Bekkevold: What meetings would you not have had if you had to register it? I don't think there would be a problem. But there are meetings that shouldn't be registered, because here we're not just talking about the Storting, we're also talking about the government, for example. in a fixed negotiated situation relating to the settlement of wages and salaries. It should then be possible for a Council of State to make an under-hand contact that no one can look up and see is taken up. There are situations where, in politics, we must have a confidentiality room that the public should not be required to look into. That is the broad consensus. We have it in the committees at Stortinget. We have it in the government. It is enshrined in the Public Health Act to protect government notes and the government's internal deliberations. And we have to be able to have it in conversations between us. It's probably not the red-green government option would have been possible if you couldn't have a confidentiality room where you could talk and develop trust and lay the foundation for it. I think the opposition parties will also experience that if they try to develop it elsewhere, in the public space – where things usually don't go very well. But again – it is not that things have not happened if they are not on TV. It is not that things are not public if they are not in a register. So the representative Skei Grande used the fight to get some drugs on blue prescription, which was led by profiled representatives here in Stortinget. Then we wonder who was behind it: Was it the industry, or were it the interest groups? As far as I can remember, at least no one was hiding it – it was not very secret that the stakeholder organisations were concerned about this. Then you can wonder if there's any economic interest behind it. In that case, it is possible to drill in. We have a press that has a problem, and we can ask questions. We can call a hearing, and we can ask those questions at the hearing. It is not the register that guarantees transparency. So Trine Skei Grande – and so did the President-in-Office, Dag Terje Andersen, in his post – touched on something that we might need to look at, namely our former colleagues, who have free access to this house. Sometimes they come on behalf of someone. Sometimes they have some local rapporteurs to build a bridge, and sometimes they have NAFs with them or whatever it may be, and sometimes they have none. Then we wonder, is there now a former colleague I'm talking to about this and the hint, or does he have the antennas out there, because he has an agreement with the organizations x and y about having ears and eyes up and helping – because there is. Yes, then there are two things we can do. Either we can restrict access and say that no, when you're done here in the house, you don't have access. Should you have access, you must have an appointment. Then he has an agreement with us, and then we know why he has an agreement. Or we'll have to ask the question, what are you sitting here slying about now? Why are you asking me that? Who is it that you pass this on to? There we all have a garden to set up. I think this has to be solved in several ways, and records are not the solution to the issues that lie around this with transparency. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, for a reliable opinion. I have to take a small reservation in relation to his introduction that we should let ourselves influence as much as possible. I'd say we have to listen as much as possible. And what I hear, sometimes goes in a slightly opposite direction, so that then letting us influence everything we hear can lead to a little bit of a spaga. We must not get into the situation that we are their leaders, so we must follow them. And then we can kind of flip around in different directions. So we're going to listen, but sometimes we're going to have to look.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e454	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2353]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e475	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e486	Norway is to be seen as a major act in marine areas, and we have a great potential to exploit them to produce ocean-based energy either in the form of wind power or other forms of energy. The proposition and the legislative proposal under consideration today include both a strategy for the development of business and energy resources related to ocean-based renewable energy and a proposal for a law on renewable energy at sea, namely the Law on Marine Energy. This is a matter which is primarily characterised by a great deal of cross-political consensus, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment for their good cooperation during the processing process. The case has its background in the climate agreement between the Government Parties and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left from January 2008, where the parties agreed to establish a national strategy for power generation from marine mills and other marine renewable energy sources. Such a strategy should address the need for research efforts, consider setting up a dedicated research-driven innovation centre in this area and find a suitable legal instrument, concession system and, not least, define areas that can be used for energy production without over-conflicting with fisheries interests and other industries as well as the marine environment. The legislative proposal is based on Norway’s long experience in the management of hydropower resources, petroleum resources and electricity and gas infrastructure. The proposal involves regulating the entire life cycle of an energy plant, i.e.: both planning, deployment, operation and shutdown, and includes both renewable energy production installations and installations for the conversion and transmission of electrical energy at sea. The law states that the right to use renewable energy resources at sea belongs to the country. The scope of the law is, as a general rule, the sea areas outside the baseline, but it may also be applied within the baseline in some cases. The legislative proposal lays down licensing obligations for the construction, ownership and operation of such facilities. Furthermore, the legislative proposal is based on land assessments and the related impact assessment procedure. When opening the area, actors are invited to apply for a concession. Provision is made for the pre-qualification of tenderers and for an impact assessment. In order to ensure the progress of projects, the authorities will also have the possibility to set deadlines for the start-up of energy installations. Furthermore, the proposal states that the offshore network infrastructure should not be loaded onto shore-based electricity customers. The concession period is proposed to last up to 30 years. On the right, we want to have a concession period of up to 50 years and propose this. The background that we want a longer concession period is two-fold: in the United Kingdom, the concession period is set at 50 years, and we are on the right hand side concerned with providing a level playing field around the North Sea Basin. Furthermore, several hearing bodies have indicated that a longer concession period is preferable in view of the extent and cost of this type of investment in renewable energy in fact and that this requires a long and predictable horizon in relation to the framework conditions. It is positive that work is already under way to assess appropriate areas and that the results of this work will be presented in the last half of 2010, and that a strategic impact assessment of these areas, including a consultation process, will be undertaken in 2011. It is important that this propulsion plan is maintained. In its comments, the Committee has underlined the importance of taking into account the fishing activities in our seas, and I would also like to signal the importance of this from the Chair today. The development of ocean-based renewable energy must take place in good co-existence with other industries, in particular the fishing industry. The proposal has identified the southern part of the North Sea as the area that it expects will initially be most relevant in the use of marine energy, since the area is close to large markets and links to infrastructure are likely to be easier. It is worth noting that a joint committee is asking that the North Sea too be seen with the same intensity, among others. because there may be other wind conditions here that make it interesting in a complete picture of the energy production of the continent. It is good that a law is now in place to exploit marine energy resources outside the baseline. In Europe, in particular in Germany and the United Kingdom, there are large plans for the development of sea wind – not only plans but also financial support schemes that make it attractive to invest. In fact, one expects a market of between 700 and 900 billion DKK to be invested in sea wind energy production in the coming years. This is a market for which Norwegian enterprises and competences are also positioned. Statoil and Statkraft have been granted a concession to further develop and, where appropriate, to expand a large field on Doggerbank in the third round of the British concession, which was recently published. It is good that these companies are paying off, because it is not surprising that the expansion of marine energy in Norway has such a high cost level compared to the possibilities of financial support that it is not realistic to consider a large-scale expansion of marine energy in Norway with the first. It is therefore important to put a demonstration plant for Norwegian technology in place. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party on a 50-year concession period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e516	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e519	The climate crisis is facing major challenges for the world’s society. The main challenge is energy. It is a transition from fossil to renewable energy. This is absolutely necessary both for climate reasons and for the prosperity development of the poor part of the world, where the population is growing rapidly. Europe’s choice of energy policies addresses the climate challenges. In addition, Europe has a strong desire to become less dependent on Russia as a dominant gas supplier. Thus, the strongest drivers of European energy policy are climate and energy security. The phased-out coal power must be replaced. Natural gas and renewable energy sources as solar and wind sail as the new energy sources. Wind power has been exploited as a source of energy for decades, but it is only in recent years that expansion has really taken its toll off. Marine wind turbines have become a major and important part of expected future energy production. There are enormous perspectives in the investment in wind power. The rapid expansion creates opportunities for industrial development and employment, which are very fragile at a time when the economy is on the brink after the financial crisis. It is said that in Germany there are now more people employed in wind power generation than in the automotive industry. In England Prime Minister Gordon Brown has said that he expects 70 000 new jobs in this industry. It is expected that by 2020 40 GB of wind will be installed at sea, involving investments of approximately DKK 800 billion. In 20 years' time, the global market for investment in wind power is expected to total NOK 1 700 billion. Europe’s need for more renewable energy provides great opportunities for Norway, both as an energy supplier and as an infrastructure provider. Our traditional investment in hydropower has given us a renewable share in the energy mix that is formidable. In addition, our big gas resources are on the base. Both have a potential for growth. When, in addition to hydropower, we also include our great potential for wind power, we see that Norway's role in European electricity supply can be great. Wind power is precious power compared to hydropower. The cost picture of electricity production and price rental in Norway means that wind power per today and in the near future will play a marginal role in the Norwegian energy balance. This must not lead to hasty conclusions that wind power is not interesting. The massive investment in wind power globally will lead to a product and production development that will reduce costs considerably. There are therefore several reasons why we should commit ourselves politically to the development of wind power, and especially to sea winds. We have a great potential for the production of power at sea. Enova's talking about 1 400 TWh. But in the near future, I think it's most important for us to focus on the industry. We have an industry with offshore experience and power skills that could claim to compete in the job contest. The competence built up through the 40 years of development of the base in the oil and gas industry is worth gold when we are now building on this with renewable energy at sea. But then it is important for our supplier industry, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that the State contributes funds to research and development. The contributions made today include: led to Hywind outside Karmøy, which is the world's first floating sea windmill. The company SWAY has received concession and financial support for the development of a huge windmill in Eyegarden, where it is testing up-sized windmills, which is absolutely necessary to bring down the costs of windmills in the long term. We have research centres for environmentally friendly energy. We have various networks of industry and research around Norway working on this, which is large and attracts an incredible number of businesses and business environments, as well as research and development environments, which are involved and driving development, and which are involved in and drive a transformation in industry to address the challenges facing the supplier side of wind power. The role of Statoil and Statkraft in the development of sea-based wind power in the United Kingdom is well known. We are in many ways completely technological and when this is to be expanded, but it is a tough competition for our industry to get into this sector. I think there might be reason to mention that the experience we have in operating and maintaining installations in the North Sea today, will also be gold worth when these windmills come up and will be operated in the future. Then, from the industrial and research environments, the need for test and demonstration facilities has been highlighted on a larger scale than what we have today. I think it's important to get there. I think that, for example, The marine sul project, on which the Western Alliance has been granted a concession and is ready to expand in the North West, could be a good place to set up a test and demo plant. We have also received input from the industry, such as this “Demo 2020” note – a test and demonstration facility with eight turbines worth DKK 2.5 to 4 billion. These are interesting insights, and I think it is important that we, on the government side, also participate, and that we come in cash, quickly, with support for this product development so that Norwegian industry can take the role that we hope they will have when development and expansion begins, especially in the British sector. The second role we politicians play is the role of regulators. The legislative proposal that we are dealing with here is, of course, the most important part of it, and it goes into the series of traditions we have for the management of the country's natural resources, especially on the energy side. We make it very clear that these resources belong to the state. The framework provides for democratic control over its development and over the management of resources. A balanced use of land is envisaged, taking into account both the environment, other industries and the conditions that may be involved. There is a broad political consensus on the law, as it stands. The only question I want to comment on here now is the question of concession time. This issue has been addressed in the proposition and has been discussed there, and it is clear that there are good arguments for both 30 years and 50 years. What is important to carry with it is that it is added that the normal concession should be extended when applied for, if there are no special conditions that warrant otherwise. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good and tidy job in the Committee during the examination of this matter. I think it's been a teaching process for all of us, and it's a good bill that we're now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e552	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur and the Committee for a good cooperation on an important and forward-looking law that the Law on Marine Energy really is. The Progress Party agrees with the Government that it is important to establish a law regulating the use of land and the different forms of energy at sea. The Maritime Renewable Energy Production Bill shall provide the State with the legal framework to grant concessions and otherwise regulate conditions relating to the planning, deployment, operation and decommissioning of renewable energy installations. The legislative proposal also deals with the transformation and transmission of electricity from the place of production and further towards the consumer. The legislative proposal is largely based on land assessments and related impact assessment procedures. The Government writes in its proposition that it wants Norway to develop further as an environmentally friendly and climate-friendly nation and to be the leader in the development of environmentally friendly energy. The EU is a driver of renewable energy with its 2020 objectives. By 2020, EU countries will produce 20 pst. more renewable energy than today. Very much of this renewable energy will come from wind turbines, and especially wind turbines at sea. As the government writes, it will probably take a long time for us in Norway to build wind turbines on a large scale at sea, and especially liquid wind turbines, which are both costly and technically difficult. The electricity price from wind turbines at sea will be too high for Norway. Nevertheless, it is of great importance that the Norwegian supplier industry prepares to supply equipment, among other things. sea windmills. The incorporation of Statoil and Statkraft into the UK giant windmill project at Doggerbank could have a significant impact on the Norwegian supplier industry. A large part of the global climate challenges will be addressed with renewable energy. This is also agreed by the Progress Party. Greater renewable energy production will help reduce global climate emissions. In the long term, sea wind will be able to provide a significant contribution to the renewable energy produced today. The Progress Party will particularly point to Norway as a major power of energy export. Hydropower has been and is the pillar of domestic energy consumption, both for industry and for households. Norway has a high potential from both regulated and non-regulatory energy sources. Reserves in hydropower are not insignificant and should be expanded in the opinion of the Progress Party. Protected watercourses need to be re-assessed in the light of today's more environmentally friendly development opportunities. Hydropower energy is cheap to produce, and should be expanded to a much greater extent than at present. Hydropower will become even more important when the EU renewable directive is put into effect. In windless days and when the need for electricity is particularly high within the EU, a large Norwegian surplus of hydropower can be the best guarantee for lower greenhouse gas emissions from EU countries. The alternative for Norwegian hydropower to replace EU wind power would have to be coal power to a large extent. Wind power from land-based installations also has a very high energy potential and will be prioritised before installations are built on deep water in Norwegian waters. The Progress Party believes there is a great need for a thorough review of remaining water and wind resources in Norway. When such surveys are available, priority will be facilitated. Without such priorities, it would be difficult to plan and develop a satisfactory electricity transmission network for the consumer. The view of the Progress Party is that the use of hydropower is most environmentally friendly and cheapest. Therefore, this type of renewable energy must come first. This view is shared by many in the industry and among leading economists. In a March issue of Technical Weekly, BI professor Torger Reve says, among other things. Norway should invest in the environmental technology where we are best. He goes on to say that hydropower is the best renewable energy we have, and that there is no kind of renewable energy production we can do better in this country. It is important that operators in the Norwegian sector are given the same conditions as in other neighbouring countries. Therefore, the Progress Party, together with the Right, proposes that the concession period be set at 50 years from the start of the facilities, against the 30 years of the Government. So in both of these proposals, there is an opportunity to apply for an extension of the concession period. The United Kingdom, with which it's natural to compare, has a 50-year concession period. The Advance Party, together with the Right and Christian People's Party, believes that the Petroleum Authority will be responsible for the health, environment and safety of marine energy installations. Summing up, the Progress Party supports the Government's proposal for the Marine Energy Act. It is important that the legislation is in front of the need and is in line with the legislation of other countries in this area. Standards for power generation, not least for a network for the collection and supply of wind power, must be developed together with EU countries. In the bill, the government makes a reasonable progress where the government itself is to assess the applicant companies, and ultimately to grant concessions. The party of progress shares here the government's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e588	Even after five months at Stortinget, I have to admit that a few days are more exciting than others – and today is very exciting. Today I'm actually very proud, because I'll be among them as if a few decades were saying that I was dealing with the Law on Marine Energy, I was involved when we laid the foundation for the next energy adventure in Norway. And I think that's very polite. And then it makes the hall not very full, the experience even more exclusive. 100 years ago, Norway showed its way with its law on hydropower. The fact that the state's resources benefit the community is not a general rule on a global scale. In a number of countries, we still see the results of a wild policy, where a few earn large sums of money to reap values that should have belonged to many more. Maybe it has extra big symbolic power in the case of the oil. Nearly no country can refer to the distribution of oil wealth that Norway can. On the contrary, oil in many parts of the world is associated with unrest, social instability and conflict — even war. Oil is an example of the fact that resource wealth itself does not necessarily create wealth for people – it is political choices that do. Therefore, it is quite natural that Norway should ensure the rights of use of our offshore wind resources. It is part of a proud tradition, where overall planning and politics create values for the good of the community. It is therefore quite natural that the law should be based on elements of petroleum legislation. It is good for professional environments and businesses, because the links are many between today's offshore activities, our management of hydropower and the future energy production at sea. Cooperation between Statkraft and Statoil in the Doggerbank project illustrates this. It is also good for democracy, because it does not become international capital forces alone that dictate the conditions for its use of resources. It is also important to ensure comprehensive planning of offshore energy production. Germany has a law that gives public governance with the development of networks and infrastructure, England does not. For each actor, marginalisations that match their own needs are, of course, the most profitable. Overall planning is not their responsibility. On the other hand, it is in the interests of society that the development of infrastructure at sea, the potential supergrid of the future and the distribution of power at sea are a public responsibility. We in SV therefore believe that this perspective is important, and that it is natural to look at, for example, in the extension of the work done today. State network as system operator. This issue is one of several to be addressed now, together with the relevant areas of renewable energy production at sea, environmental, food and fisheries interests, etc. An inter-ministerial working group – it sounds very dry, but I think the work is exciting – will present a report on this already in the autumn, and it is only hope that we will be able to keep the pressure ahead. Starting a process that turns into a new energy standard for Norway requires that we keep our commitment and keep the grip on the matter, beyond the debate today. It requires financial arrangements that take into account both long-term profitability and the high initial costs. This requires that we maintain a focus on the knowledge environments in Norway and the enterprises that are spearheads, among other things. SWAY in Bergen and Smartmotor in my hometown. It requires testing and demonstration facilities and the active involvement of industry, which have a natural role in the development of this energy. We know that the theoretical potential for renewable marine energy in Norway is enormous. I think we have a pretty long time. But it is up to us to ensure that this potential is exploited in a socially beneficial way, in a way that creates new Norwegian jobs, new challenges for our technology environments and for the supplier industry. The law we adopt today is a first step on the road, but above all it is a commitment that we should take on with the greatest zeal and joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e603	This is historic. Norway is, and will remain, an energy nation, even when the oil is gradually replaced by renewable energy sources. That is why I am pleased that the legal framework for the production of renewable energy at sea is now in place. Sea energy represents an almost unlimited reserve of power. The potential is enormous. Enova has calculated that the physical potential for sea wind in Norwegian waters is staggering 14 000 TWh per year. years. To put it in perspective: 1 TWh is about the annual power consumption in the Drammen. Sea breeze is only one of several forms of energy that can be harvested from the sea. Wave power, tidal power and salinity can also provide exciting opportunities. In fact, a large-scale Norwegian investment in offshore wind power is well ahead of time, but in the long run there may be a large source of income for Norway. In Soria Moria it is stated that Norway will be an environmentally friendly and world-leading energy nation. Climate challenges and expected energy needs in the world in the future require a massive shift from fossil to renewable energy sources. Marine energy can get us a good deal towards that goal. Soria Moria also states that green jobs in energy production and environmental technologies will become a new growth industry in Norway. Investment in ocean-based renewable energy represents good opportunities for Norwegian enterprises and communities of excellence. The global market for offshore wind power is expected to increase rapidly. We have to get into the market quickly. Norway has a significant advantage through our experience of oil and gas production on Norwegian soil. We have extensive experience in building, operating and maintaining sea-based installations. We already see that new markets are opening up. It is gratifying that Norwegian players are involved in the construction of what has been referred to as the world's largest offshore wind farm. The physical potential for power generation is gigantic. We need to focus not only on opportunities, but also on the challenges facing the future development of ocean-based energy. Marine power generation technology is still at an early stage, with both economic and technological challenges. There are also challenges to the development of offshore power grids. The only full-scale floating windmill in the world is just put into operation. The commercial availability of renewable energy production requires even more research and technology development. In addition to the technological challenges, the environment, safety and industrial activities shall also be taken into account. The Act states that energy installations are to be planned, built and disposed of in balance with the environment, safety, fisheries and maritime transport. The production of marine energy is at an early stage, and we still have knowledge needs. We don't know enough about the consequences of offshore wind power for seabirds. We also have a lack of knowledge of how wind turbine noise affects fish and marine mammals. In the future, building further knowledge is crucial. It is also essential that the fishing interests are taken into account when identifying appropriate fields for wind turbines. The dialogue with interested interests, in particular the fishing industry, must be good, in particular with regard to the choice of area. In the future, we need to focus on providing the broadest possible basis for identifying areas that are suitable for the development of wind turbines in terms of technical and economic conditions. Southern areas of the North Sea will have the shortest transfer distances to the consumption markets in Europe, but have challenges related to co-variability with other major planned sea-area expansions. North Sea areas have longer transfer distances to markets, but due to other wind and weather systems, they will have less covariance problems in electricity exports and also have larger wind resources. In both sea areas more knowledge is also needed on possible electrification of the cap with offshore wind power. Therefore, it is important that future land studies assess possible areas in the North Sea in addition to the southern North Sea, in the light of the technical and economic conditions indicated in the proposal, and in both sea areas, assessments are made of the possible electrification of the sea-based wind base. Today, we have taken an important step on the way to establishing the basis for a future large scale Norwegian wind power generation. The legal framework is in place. We have learned from our long experience in the management of hydropower resources, petroleum resources and electricity and gas infrastructure. The law on renewable offshore energy production is based on this. Natural resources shall remain in public ownership and shall be managed for the benefit of the Community. We have taken an important step towards green jobs, green energy production and green environmental technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e631	The legislative proposal and the strategy discussed by the Stortinget today are a first cautious step towards what may prove to be an important future industry for Norway. The oil age is on the rise, and we are on the way into the renewable age. In some years today’s oil installations in the North Sea may have been replaced by wind turbines and other renewable energy technologies. The North Sea oil has given us enormous values and contributed greatly to the development of our welfare society. I'm grateful for that. At the same time, we know that oil resources do not last forever, and that the combustion of oil and other fossil energy sources has created challenges in terms of the global climate. The combustion of oil and gas contributes strongly to global warming. It's hard to predict the future, but I have a hope that today's fossil energy production will eventually be replaced by renewables, including in the North Sea. The proposition we're dealing with today is two-fold. It contains both a strategy for the development of business and energy resources related to ocean-based renewable energy and a proposal for a law on renewable energy at sea. The strategy is a follow-up to the Climate Change Agreement between the Government Parties and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left from January 2008, which agreed to establish a national strategy for the generation of power from marine mills and other marine renewable energy sources. The law shall provide the legal framework for the granting of concessions and otherwise regulate matters relating to the planning, development, operation and decommissioning of installations for the production of renewable energy and installations for the transformation and transmission of electricity at sea. The use of fossil energy stands for 70 pst. global greenhouse gas emissions, and global energy use is increasing with universal and improved living standards. Increased renewable energy production will make an important contribution to improving the global environment. Marine wind power could in the long term provide a significant contribution to the renewable energy produced in Norway today. Marine renewable energy investment will represent opportunities for Norwegian enterprises and environments of competence. The global market for offshore wind power is expected to increase rapidly. Norwegian companies have significant competence from offshore petroleum activities and power generation on land, which can also provide opportunities for renewable offshore energy production. Norway today has an important position as an energy supplier for Europe. By further investing in energy production, we will further develop Norway’s role as energy tower power. Several countries have already invested significantly in the development of marine energy, in particular offshore wind turbines such as fixed installations at relatively small depths. The EU Commission has already notified an action plan for wind-based marine energy as part of its renewable directive. The greatest potential for conflict in this case is likely to be directed at fishing interests. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that a commitment to marine energy can be reconciled with good co-existence with coastal fishing interests. The establishment of offshore wind power production or wave power plants may adversely affect fishing if the installations are located in fishing areas. The potential for offshore wind power, both from fixed and liquid installations, exceeds the expected electricity demand in Norway in the coming years. It is therefore important that there are good opportunities for the disposal of power from Norwegian offshore wind power production in the European electricity market. A new third generation core network for the transmission of power in sea cables along the coast, a so-called supernet, could be important in this way. If such a new network is to be built, it means large investments, but it will also facilitate large future revenues. It is therefore important that such a network be thoroughly investigated, and that the first investigations are already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e657	The Sea Energy Act, which is being dealt with here today, is an important building block in that construction plant, which will be a major investment in marine energy production. The left agrees with the Committee's position, which is also a follow-up to the agreement in the climate agreement. It is positive that the climate agreement is followed up at one more point, although the Left considers the Government to be too passive in pursuing the national emission reduction objectives, which are widely agreed. The proposal for the Law on Marine Energy also contains a national strategy for marine renewable energy sources. As early as April 2007, the Left in Stortinget proposed the development of a national strategy for renewable energy production at sea, including marine mills. This proposal voted the government parties down, but after the press from the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, this entered into the climate agreement that was concluded in the Stortinget in January 2008. However, the strategy put forward by the Government lacks important elements, such as concrete objectives for the development and signals of a competitive support device, which will allow development to take place in Norway, and not only in other countries, such as Norway. Great Britain. I want to spend time here today drawing up some lines for the future. The growth of activity related to oil and gas has been a major cause of Norway’s strong economic development and prosperity growth over the past decades. We now see a number of state initiatives being taken to speed up the investment in renewable energy in many countries, and unfortunately Norway is on the jumbo scene in terms of renewable energy support. As part of the overall strategy of the Left to gradually replace oil and gas extraction with the production of clean, renewable energy, we will stimulate current clusters around the oil and gas industry to shift investment and competence to renewable energy and future-oriented economic activity. In the future, renewable energy production and exports of renewable energy solutions will have to provide the large revenues. In particular, Norway has great opportunities to develop and implement new technologies in the field of new renewable power generation, both on land and at sea. To achieve this, increased research efforts and improved framework conditions for the development of renewable energy sources and climate-friendly power technologies are needed. This is why the Left has called for, and also proposed, the establishment of a state investment company aimed at investing commercially in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and the environmentally sound transformation of existing business. And we are impatient about putting in place the green certificate market for support for land-based renewable energy production. Finally, the Left believes that there is a need to establish an overall support regime for the development of renewable power generation at sea, which is internationally competitive, and we believe that a national value creation programme should be set up to focus on the development of marine renewable energy sources, including the State. contribute to a strong increase in appropriations for research and pilot projects on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e671	In June last year, the government presented the proposal on the Law on Renewable Energy Production at Sea – the Law on Marine Energy. This document consists of a strategic part that points out the direction of offshore wind in Norway and a bill that provides a basis for the concession treatment of off-line installations. It is a historic event that we are today completing the law for the disposal of our natural resources for energy purposes for the benefit of the community. First came the hydroelectric power with groundbreaking legislation 100 years ago, then the petroleum legislation early in the 1970s, and now we are completing to secure the rights of exploitation of our wind resources at sea. At the same time, the law indicates that we are now investing in renewable energy into the ocean! 50 years in advance, it is quite possible that looking back in history, you can see that March 11, 2010, is a date that is clearly remembered in that context. There are good reasons why Norway should invest in offshore wind power. The energy potential in Norwegian sea areas is very high. Our business life is based on a technology that gives us a good starting point for actively participating in the development of renewable energy production at sea. The legislative proposal provides for public control and control of the disposal of renewable energy resources at sea and is based on elements of the petroleum legislation. The State shall provide an early assessment of other relevant societal and environmental interests before opening up areas for applications. It will reduce potential conflicts, ensure coordination with network development and increase predictability for actors. The law is a framework, and additional requirements are necessary, including: as regards health, environment and safety. In order to assess how best to organise the supervision of HMS, an inter-departmental working group has been set up that now assesses, among other things. the most appropriate supervisory authority. The right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal that the Petroleum Supervision should be the supervisory authority is an advance of this investigation. Norway has over 100 years of hydropower experience, and we have 40 years of experience in offshore petroleum activity. We are a shipping nation that knows the conditions at sea, and we have research skills and high-tech suppliers that are world leaders. One example is Statoil's Hywind mill, which is the world's first fully sized floating wind turbine. Research and demonstration are necessary to reduce costs and to contribute to future development in Norway and in Europe with a wide range of Norwegian technologies and competences. History has shown that the Norwegian supplier industry is adaptable and that it seizes new opportunities. It gives me hope that many jobs in technology and the supplier industry are also something we will see in the coming years. Renewable marine energy is a high priority in research and demonstration. As highlighted in the strategy, it is important to develop demonstration projects that can take knowledge from research environments further. This is central to the success of Norwegian industry with a sea energy effort in the coming years. Two of the eight research centres we have for environmentally friendly energy are focusing on wind at sea. A third centre shall look at how hydropower can be exploited as best and as environmentally friendly as possible in interaction with other renewable energy sources. In addition, Enova has set up a demonstration programme for offshore power generation with financial support, including: to the demonstration projects Hywind and SWAY. Last September, the NVE was assigned to lead a directorate group with the Directorate for Nature Management, the Directorate for Fisheries, the Coastal Agency and the Oil Directorate. This group shall rough-sort the areas concerned for renewable production at sea. It shall include, inter alia: take into account other land use interests, the environment, sea depth, wind resources, market potential and the relationship with the transmission system, etc. As the Committee points out, it is important that a broad assessment be made of the various sea areas in the Norwegian economic zone. The group shall present its work this autumn. Marine wind land assessments and offshore transmission system planning are closely linked. It is possible to envisage different solutions for the network connection of offshore wind power. The main principle proposed in this round is that on-shore network customers should not cover the costs of a transmission system at sea. I would also like to mention briefly that we have signed a declaration on an offshore in the North Sea. It's an important work and part of the broad job we're doing now to get the ocean energy effort in place and transformed into concrete energy production.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e697	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e700	The proposition we're dealing with today is hardly a disagreement about. But many in the industry are still wondering what will happen in the future in terms of actually being able to create the jobs that many people are talking about, and when commercialisation will happen. In the election campaign, Erik Solheim traveled to Rogaland to look at Hywind mills, and exuberantly exclaimed that this would help the EU meet its 2020 targets. It also means that one must have built up quite a number of TWh with offshore wind power in Norway in order for Erik Solheim’s promise to be fulfilled. Does the Council of State believe that Norway will have developed particularly many commercial wind turbines that deliver electricity to the EU as early as 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e709	No, I don't. I believe that the perspective of this is probably longer. The reason for that is that we per. Today, there is a cost level in this area that is very high, and I think we need to see significant technological breakthroughs before we see the large commercial uptake and the major breakthrough of marine energy technology. I think that SWAY, as we are now seeing evolve in the West, and where one has technology that helps significantly reduce the weight at the top of the mills, is an example of what we need to do more. The mills we have today are probably not well enough adapted to strong wind and clear sea conditions, so we have a long way to go here. The sooner, the better, but there must be considerable rounds in terms of technology development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e716	This is about energy, but it's primarily about industry and building industry here at home. The council itself says that he does not expect a domestic market. At that time, the importance of bringing up test and demonstration facilities is becoming more important, because the development of Northern Europe is now taking place. Norwegian industry needs a place to develop technology and try out, get reference projects – and they need them now. Demo 2020 is a project with over 100 companies, five universities and four research institutes that have merged to want a test and demonstration facility, just to qualify the Norwegian industry to take advantage of the opportunities in Europe now. They are asking for support and dialogue with the authorities, and believe that such an installation will have to stand up in 2011 in order for us to be able to make use of the market in Europe at all. Governments have received a request from this group. He got it in February. Can the Council of States say anything about the possibilities to support Demo 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e725	I am a little surprised if the representative Meling believes that we should now have individual projects – I had just said – bypassed the queue and beyond the formal processes we have in support of renewable energy in Norway. The size has adopted a framework related to Enova, in which Enova is given the necessary competence to take decisions on individual projects. It would be totally wrong if I went in and signaled support for single projects and single ideas from this pulpit. We have considerable resources. We have just over 2 billion kroner within the Enova system in 2010. A few weeks ago, we gave 135 million. kr of it for the SWAY project, which is in practice what the representative Meling is concerned about, namely demonstration projects and development projects that contribute to the further development of the technology. So we're working widely on the intention I hear of the representative's question, which I fully share, but going into individual projects here and should short-circuiting the processes in terms of applications would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e734	In my statement, I mentioned that the Left has proposed the creation of a new semi-state investment company, Climate Change, which is to invest specifically in technology companies. Does the Council of State think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e739	I believe that when we have now raised the appropriations in Enova to a level that is very high in relation to what it was, among other things. When the Left ruled it, we have an opportunity to be active by the authorities and go in and support technology development. I just mentioned the project SWAY. We've had the Hywind mill where we've been in with tens of millions of dollars. We now have muscle from the authorities, which means that we can be an actor, that we can be a co-player in terms of technology development. So, of course, it's possible to look at it in relation to organization, but I think we'll be honest and say that it's really about wanting to spend money in this area. That is what we will now do when we spend almost 2 billion kroner on renewable energy over the state budget in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e746	I would then like to take this opportunity to ask further questions about how the Council of State has thought that Norwegian industry and Norwegian suppliers will be able to enter a market in Europe, such as Germany and the United Kingdom – we are talking about 700 billion – 900 billion kroner – and deliver what we all praise of competence and technological solutions, when we know how the British, for example. put out their tenders. Statoil and Statkraft had to sketch out which British industrial companies they then had the opportunity to deliver to projects. They obviously put a lot of money on the table in subsidies, and they want job creation back in the United Kingdom. It's the competitive image. If we are to have the hope that Norwegian environments will be able to assert themselves in this market – as long as we know that our own domestic market is well ahead – then it is urgent to get it in place. I would like the Council of State to show greater impatience in making use of this possibility for the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e753	I believe that my impatience is very great. I think I have also shown it on many, many occasions in helping to raise the total state allocation to this so that we can produce new projects, spend money on demonstrations and contribute to technology development in Norway. I mentioned SWAY and Hywind as examples of where we are at the top of the world when it comes to technology development. It is also concrete business development. A little while ago I was in Sogn and Fjordane, among others. in Måløy. There I also saw part of the reality we see out on the coast. I visited concrete companies that are now operational, which are in the market, and which have competence as the wind power industry in Europe in demand. These are special built boats, they are new technologies to test wind resistance, etc. So fortunately, we are there that the industry in Norway is in the market. But I'm impatient, as the representative, after moving on. That's why we're going to spend a lot of money in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e764	There are several in this debate that have drawn the parallel to the history of petroleum and the strategic choices made at the time of the late 1960s and early 1970s. It's in many ways a good parallel. It's about someone who believed in something few others believed in. It's about someone who saw opportunities there where few others saw them. It's about politicians who took hold, took control and provided national control, and it's about Norwegian technology development. The law we are adopting today is also new work. It lays the legal framework for what is to be done on a Norwegian pedestal in the coming years. Then, of course, there's every reason to be quite sober about what marine energy will mean for Norwegian energy supply in the coming years. This is technically demanding. It's expensive, we know it. But there is also every reason to have great visions on behalf of the Norwegian supplier industry and the great opportunities to participate in the technological developments that are going to take place here and elsewhere in the years to come. The representative Henriksen referred to the 800 billion estimated to be invested in sea wind by 2020. It is primarily here that we have a lot to learn from the petroleum history, about how crucial the domestic market has been for the Norwegian supplier industry today to compete with the best in the world. Until we are there, it is essential that we have good test and demo projects in place. A few weeks ago, we were told that Statkraft and Statoil have signed a gigantic contract for the expansion of Doggerbank outside the United Kingdom. That communication brought with it some criticism that this should have happened in Norway. I have to say that I am extremely pleased with that project and with the role of two very heavy Norwegian energy companies in it. The United Kingdom is a country that is largely fired on coal. They have taken on enormous commitments through the renewable directive. They have to take drastic action. The contribution of other countries to strong subsidies, to technological development, must not be a problem, and especially when the main energy companies in Norway are involved and are making heavy changes in it. Hopefully, there is a lot of learning in the projects that can be used to commercialise liquid sea wind in Norway, which is much more demanding technically. We have Hywind, the world's first floating sea windmill, but we're still at the research stage. That is why it is good that two of the eight renewable energy centres set up just over a year ago are engaged in sea wind operations. So ocean energy is more than just wind. We've got the world's first salt power plant at Hurum, also a very exciting project. The potential in waves is unknown, but can also be great. There are many who are skeptical of the profitability of sea winds. Of course, this is where the great uncertainty lies. Research, testing and pilots can cut costs. At the same time, however, I believe that the renewable directive and the heavy commitments that many countries have now received will help to increase demand and the willingness to pay for Norwegian renewable energy, although, of course, the perspective of this goes much beyond 2020. The flexible mechanisms of that Directive can also put us in the position that foreign actors come to Norway with their national support systems in their backs and want to develop sea wind power here. Then it is also my strong wish that sea breezes can contribute to a greater degree of electrification of Norwegian pedestal than what is realistic to see today. Then we can contribute to emissions cuts from the sector that has had the strongest emissions growth of all since 1990, with a doubling in the vicinity. The challenges are big, but then there are also big things we want to do. Today, we are laying a building block in what can be the foundation of a new era for the energy nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e787	This is a debate in which almost everyone agrees on the content itself that lies ahead of us, but where perhaps some of us become very eager and others become a little more party braked as to how the future will look purely commercial to the actors who will live on it. The government has not presented a regime – and neither are they to be criticised for it, because I respect the fact that it is complicated and takes time. But I still think that when many sketches as big visions as you do here, you create an impression in the industry that there will be framework conditions that actually make it possible to live up to those visions. And I'll warn you a little bit about that, because we have far too many times in the Norwegian energy debate that things are going to happen, without the framework conditions actually lying there when the time comes. We got an example of this in Today's Business on 12 January 2010, where the head of Statoil's renewable energy strategy, Alexandra Bech Gjørv, said that they have been told to invest in onshore wind power for ten years, and when the projects come, the framework is not there anyway. A little bit is realized, but far from what the industry thought they would realize. And I think that might be the same thing here. The comparison with oil and gas seems to me to be a bit sought out, because oil and gas have been on their own legs almost from day one. You've had risk capital, you've made money on it. We know that offshore wind power will require considerable subsidies for a long time in the future. It may be interesting to invest commercially from an actor even if it's subsidised, because as long as you make money, it's interesting. At the same time, however, we know that in many countries in Europe, they have had generous support schemes, for example. in the case of sun in Spain, but when you start to intensify those support schemes because it starts to cost a lot of money in total, we also see that the industry around collapses because it has been built too quickly in an immature state and is unable to defend its investments in competition with others when you do not get the same generous subsidies. Although the United Kingdom has decided to study Doggerbank and given assignments to, among others, Statoil and Statkraft to sketch the possibilities, we should respect that the English like to when this comes on the table and they see the total bill, not necessarily adopt full expansion. So the expectation that this is a market of NOK 900 billion that Norway can just take off as much as we want, I think we'll be a little bit careful with. But at the same time, I would like to say that it does not mean that there are no food routes here for the Norwegian supplier industry. We already know today that there are Norwegian companies that are well linked to e.g. Vestas as subcontractors, including: from my home country, Rogaland, and lives well with it. But there's a difference between being a sub-contractor and thinking that you should get control of the whole industry yourself, as some people think. There are two important themes that the Storting must bring with it, and not least the Government, as you move on in this. One is, what are we going to do with the force? It is obvious that we need to build significantly with sea-based wind power in Norway, it is for export. Then I believe that very few Norwegian taxpayers will think it is okay that the exported power should also be subsidized with crowns per cent. kWt just to get Europeans to buy it. This means that I don't think that there will be very much offshore wind power in Norway in the near future, and I'm very happy with the answer that the Council of State gave, because it shows a certain degree of soberness that the Swedish government has not had in this matter. Question two, which is related to question one, will then be: With a lack of home market, how will one manage to develop the supplier industry, so that they can actually compete outside? There, I believe that as politicians, we have an absolute role to play in ensuring that it is a R & D project, and in ensuring that we contribute to the funding of pilot projects to test out technology. That's how you can get the supplier industry to practice in and out of the green certification market, so you can realize a little more wind power than you've done in recent years. Then you will also have the experience. In this context, we must remember that in Europe and in the rest of the world there is an enormous amount of wind power installed in many countries. In the United States, in Germany and in China, they already have a huge advantage. Yes, we're good at making things flow, but I think it's more realistic if we say we're going to be more project partners in the future than we're going to take over this industry just because Statoil and Statkraft have entered a project in England. This is about good resource use. English people have to do this, because they do not have other renewable energy alternatives. Norway has significant quantities of water, onshore wind, bioenergy and geothermal heat competing for offshore wind. There is a perspective to be taken into account in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e807	The new Marine Energy Act is an important tool for renewable energy at sea and will provide the basis for a commitment in this area in the years to come. Norway has been an energy storm on oil and gas for decades, and so will we for many years to come. Similarly, we have large resources that can be exploited when it comes to wind power both at land and at sea. We see today that other countries are investing heavily in the development of offshore wind power. This applies not least in the United Kingdom, where Norwegian interests are also involved in major expansions. Both in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Sea there is a great potential for the production of wind power. Wind power is an important resource for achieving both the 20 pst target in the climate agreement and in the EU. renewable energy from 2020. It is expected that 40 GW wind power will be installed at sea by 2020, and that means formidable investments in the years to come if this is to be realised. It is very positive that a joint committee goes in to assess the area of the northern North Sea as well in the first round. Large areas are needed for the development of offshore wind power. Different wind systems and depths make different solutions necessary. Southern areas of the North Sea have the shortest transmission distances to the consumption market in Europe, but at the same time they have challenges related to co-variability with other major planned seas. Area in the northern North Sea has a longer transfer distance to the market, but due to other wind and weather systems, there will be less covariance problems in power exports, and one also has greater wind power resources in the northern part of the North Sea. This flexibility is important from the start. The potential for offshore wind power, both from fixed and floating installations, is much greater than the domestic demand for electricity in the coming years. Against the background of Europe’s high renewable energy needs, this will provide great opportunities for exports of electricity from offshore wind power generation in the European electricity market. Norwegian offshore wind power can play an important role in meeting the European renewable energy demand in the future, both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to ensure Europe’s security of electricity supply. Good electricity transmission infrastructure is crucial for the development and development of renewable energy production at sea, security of supply and the rational use of resources. A new 3rd generation core network for the transmission of power in sea cables along the coast, a so-called supernet, will be important to achieve this. It is very positive that Norway joined the planning of a European super-network in the North Sea in early February. This means that Norwegian renewable energy can have an important place in the European energy balance. Norwegian hydropower is pointed to as an important factor in the European power system, and Norway needs to facilitate the exploitation of this potential. This means that we should already start planning a Norwegian supernet further north along the Norwegian coast. It will add both Norwegian hydropower and Norwegian wind power to the European super network, and it can help get more participants in the split layer to generate grid capacity further north. It will also make it easier to assess further the development of wind power, and it may reduce the need for the largest lines within the country. It'll be positive in many ways. We see today that it is too expensive and too bad technology to exploit wind energy in an economically defenceable way. Therefore, the Right would like to facilitate demonstration facilities both to test out technology and to pre-qualify Norwegian operators for markets outside Norway. Norwegian companies show great willingness to participate in technological developments before sea wind power, and Demo 2020 is a good example of this. They represent more than a hundred industrial companies, five universities and four research communities, from Verdal in the north to Kristiansand in the south. They have established unique cooperation and wish to establish a Norwegian test and demonstration programme for marine wind and ocean energy. As the Council of State notes, the technology environment in Måløy in Sogn and Fjordane are also directed towards offshore wind. The sister companies Easy Form and Best Mould design and produce original noise pedals for windmills for customers abroad. Stadt Towing Tank has an 182 meter long test pool and launches newly developed technology, among other things. into offshore wind. Brothers AS developed the new concept Sea Bridge for the entrapment of offshore wind turbines from the boat, while Måløy Verft builds service and supply ships for wind farms. Shipowner Fredrik Odfjell in FOB Shipping has booked the first boat and has option on three more. Odfjell says to the newspaper Firda that the industry believes that within three to four years there is a need for 100 new boats for wind farms. It shows some of the potential of these industrial developments, and it is also an important part of a future investment in marine wind energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e835	Today, we are dealing with a legislative and regulatory framework for future renewable energy production in our marine areas. We have traditions in Norway regarding this type of legislation. It started with the concession laws early in the 1900s for the use of hydropower. It continued with the law relating to the harvesting of petroleum deposits in the 1970s, and it continues to deal with this proposition today. The conflict between private capitalist interests and the interests of the community becomes apparent in such cases. We all remember how anti-interest attitudes have flared up in the treatment of the home-fall institute in recent years. When it comes to billions of values, it's more important than ever to be ideologically conscious and keep an eye on the community's best interests. When it blows at the worst and the pressure is greatest, a strong back and a clear political anchoring are required. For the Workers' Party, this is the result of an ideological anchoring and conscious choice when we are clear that the country's large and natural energy resources are our property, and are therefore to benefit the community as much as possible. In our opinion, it is fundamentally unfair whether such large values should be in the pockets of individuals or companies. In order to avoid precisely this happening, clear legislation is needed, both in relation to any ownership rights and the framework and driving rules, when it comes to who will be responsible for the specific harvesting of resources. In addition, it is essential to have a tax regime that ensures a fair distribution of the profits and values harvested. In addition to the perspectives I have now mentioned, a good framework is important in terms of attracting private capital and private stakeholders. Stability and predictability may be the main factor in successful Public Private Cooperation. It is difficult today to have a secure and definite view of the future potential of renewable offshore energy production, whether offshore wind turbines or other renewable energy sources in the ocean. Here the prognosis cracks enormously, from the greatest optimism to the most negative pessimist. Regardless of who should be given the right, it is important to have an industrial thinking around what can come from renewable energy sources from the marine areas in the future. Norway has a high level of industrial competence in offshore installations and solutions. In addition to this, we are a great energy nation, with all the advantages it brings. We must manage that with all the responsibility in it. We need to ensure that this competence makes us world leaders in renewable energy. This gives us great industrial opportunities that we must not let go of. We can create thousands of jobs and get great value creation in this area in the future. We have to take care of this opportunity, and the treatment of today's case is an important part of this work. The framework for the production of renewable energy at sea, which we are adopting today, I think will prove to be very important for our future value creation, so that we can have great values for distribution in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e852	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e855	I think it's incredibly happy that we're putting this code in place today, because no matter how a twist and turn things around, it's so that if you don't have a code on which to base, you can't get any development either. That's why this is very, very good. It is also a first step on the way to something that can be big, and which will in any case be important, because no matter how a twist and turn it around, we need to reverse our energy production, as the rapporteur of the matter also pointed out. One has to make sure to come from a fossil energy world to a renewable energy world, and then there is not one trace that is the simple answer – one has to follow all the ways to the goal. Offshore wind is undoubtedly one of the major potential roads, because the resources are difficult, the areas are difficult, and there are many countries that are interested in extracting this. I believe that one of the key roles that Norway can play is the role we are now taking in relation to technology development. It is precisely because in Norway we have significantly lower electricity prices than in most other countries, and we also have a power system based on renewable energy, and therefore it will be that we have the opposite way into this issue than some other countries have. Other countries say: We have very polluting energy production, we have to move on to something else — and then offshore wind is a bet both in Denmark, in the United Kingdom, in Germany. We have an energy production that's pretty clean. That means that our goal, when we get this up, will be the export target, which is extremely important to us in the longer term. The second is that we have an opposite path within the technology side, because where other countries have been investing in wind on land first, and then investing in wind at sea, we have had an offshore technology competence. Now that we're good at chassis in offshore technology, we've got companies like Ovec Tower, Aker Verdal and others who are interested in bringing this technology out and are technology suppliers there. On the technology side, I also think it's right to mention exactly SWAY and Hywind, which are very exciting projects that attract many environments. But I'll say one thing in the end, and that's that we have to have an overall approach to this. There's one area where we're polluting a lot today on energy production, and it's offshore, in relation to the petroleum business. There is no doubt that the costs of energy production in the case of the petroleum industry today are high enough to defend, for example: wind power produced from offshore wind turbines. That's why it's extremely important that the state has an overall approach when we look at how we can generate growth within this industry in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e866	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2353]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e882	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e891	This is also a topic that is going to be debated several times this spring, but as it is said, a good thing can't be done too often. What we have to say is that Norway has one of the world’s best parental leave schemes. The current system offers good opportunities to combine work and leave. What is important for all families is to be able to spend time together in the important time that the first years of the child's life are in view of the child's social and human development. Proposals focus on important issues. They believe that provision should be made for parents to be able to choose when and how to withdraw their parental leave and that they will have extended access to leave to the child is 12 years old. Although the Committee does not support the proposal, the Committee agrees very much with what the proposers say here, but then within the overall framework of the current system. Different parents have different needs and policies need to be taken into account. Although the Committee does not support the proposers with regard to introducing a flexible parental leave until the child reaches the age of 12 years, it is indeed worth noting – and it is indeed very gratifying – that an overall committee points out the importance of having a policy based on the freedom of each family to find the best solutions for them. A single committee also agrees that different parents have different needs and that the policies pursued must take this into account. What I think is a little incredible in this matter is that one agrees on this, when one then knows that the government is pursuing a slightly different policy. For the Progress Party, it has also been important not to go in and control the weeks that parents have at their disposal. Each family must have great freedom to find solutions that are best for them. Here one must have the best of children in focus, and not punish the child if father has no occasion or mother does not have the opportunity to take out all those weeks. The situation today is that mother loses the weeks that father does not have the opportunity to take, and that affects the child, because they need to have their parents at home in the first year. The progress party has faith in Dad and that Dad wants to be more at home, and we have faith in the family and that they can figure this out for themselves. The goal must always be to give the child time with their parents, which we ensure by giving the family full freedom to share parental leave among themselves as they find it best for their family. For the proposal: The Committee endorses the intention of the proposal. There are a lot of good things that have been mentioned there, but we do not support the very proposal to extend this to also apply until 12 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e910	Let me state, in line with the rapporteur, that Norway has the most shy parental leave system in the world. Although Sweden has longer leave than we have in Norway, payments in Norwegian parental leave schemes are significantly better. I think it is quite polite that the Progress Party boasts of the parental leave system we have in Norway. It's deliberately fought out of the left side and the women's movement and the so-called state feminists that you talk about so contemptuously from that side. There would not have been such a good parental leave scheme in Norway today if the left-hand forces had not fought it through in governments that have largely departed from the left-hand side. With regard to the Left's proposal to extend the parental leave to 15 months, where three months should be reserved for father – and that it should be removed within a ten-year period – we do not support it. The reason is that the cost – the price tag of the proposal – will be between 4 and 6 billion kroner. We believe that there are far more targeted measures to spend so much money on, and we believe that we get little left for it. We would have used them quite differently if we had had so much money to spend on the families of young children. The weakness of today's parental leave is not that it is too short or that it is not flexible enough. The biggest weakness of the parental leave today is that not all fathers have earned rights, and that 80 pst. the parental leave is withdrawn by the mother. That's why government parties want to strengthen fathers' vested rights, and we've said in Soria Moria that we want to extend the feather quota to 14 weeks. We've already expanded, from six to ten weeks in the last magnification period. It's going to be quite exciting to look at the experience from the extension to ten weeks, because I think that such an extension will help us to have a much more equal parenthood than we've had up to now. The reason for this is that while we've only had six weeks' family allowance, half of the families have been taken out for vacation. Then the father does not get the opportunity to be at home alone with the little child, become familiar with the routines and feel the joy of being at home and caring for the child. I think in a couple of years we'll see a huge effect of just this. Therefore, I would like to strongly warn against the Progress Party, and parts of the Right, which now want us to remove the feather quota. Had we not had the father quota, which was introduced by Grete Berget in 1993, fathers today would have much less time with their children. It is true that in Norway we are still very tradition-bound, and we have strong gender roles. It is expected that father will be a primary care provider and that mother will be the primary care provider at home. So removing the parental quota would be to put the same parent – and the father’s ability to take part in care – far back in time. Finally, I would like to say that it has been March 8th. The big theme of March 8th this year was the book for Marie Simonsen and Ingunn Yssen, where they are a little provocative in form and say that girls lose when they have children. In reality, they're just saying the same thing as the Equal Pay Commission has said: when families have children, something special happens, because until you have children, boys and girls are quite equal in terms of wage development and career. But when the child arrives, the girls are parked in terms of salary development and career – while the boys just rage by them. So if we're also going to look at the equal pay dimension of this, we have to make sure that we have an equal parent at home. One of the most important contributions we can make there is just expanding the spring quota and keeping it stone hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e927	The parental leave has ensured that in their first year of life the child is given the opportunity to receive good and proper care. For all the families covered by this scheme, it is valuable to have the opportunity to spend time with the child in the first year of life – and to participate in the child’s social and human development. I think the proposal from the Left in many ways is good. It is good because it just raises the question that many people are concerned about a day, namely whether families should be given more freedom of choice – this is an issue that is becoming more and more important in the debate. You have on one side the red-green government, which wants a longer parental leave because you want to give more time to father. For government parties, it seems that it is more important to increase equality between parents than actually to help families live good family lives and give their children good care. On the other hand, we now see in this case that none of the parties in the opposition are satisfied with today's parental leave scheme. We see that both the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right demand more freedom of choice and more flexibility. And that's not weird, because we know that the parents want to be able to control their everyday life even more. In the Right, we are concerned about an ever-increasing government of childhood and family life, as we see under the Red-Green Government. We are also concerned that it will be difficult for the red-greens to fulfill the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration where you want to extend Father's leave. When we hear about the Minister of Finance's tightening-up projects, everyone understands that there won't be much money to expand the parental leave in the near future. Therefore, the Right fears that the extension of leave weeks to father will go at the expense of mother. For the Right, it is important that the family itself should have the ability to determine and find solutions that best suit the individual family, precisely because families and parents and children have different needs and different desires for their lives. That is why we are also willing to enter into a debate and look at how we can make the leave system more flexible and more marked by freedom of choice. We share the views of the proposers, the Left, on this issue, but we are not prepared to address the solution proposed by the Left. However, from the Right, we would stress the importance of facilitating children to spend a lot of time with both mother and father in their first year of life. No one disagrees that Dad should also take a lot of responsibility for childcare in the first year, but it is nevertheless most important that Mom and Dad should decide for themselves. It gives good care to the child, it gives good opportunities to mother and father, and that's what gives good family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e942	The representative of Solveig Horne is quite right in saying that the Norwegian parental leave scheme is among the most shy in the world, and the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul is quite right in saying that much of it is the profits of the women's movement. Paid parental leave is not a matter of course worldwide, nor has it always been in Norway. But it's important for well-being, and it's important for equality. We know that women still do more work at home and take more care of children, and we know that it is a factor that takes into account that we still have different wages in Norway. SV has ambitions that parental leave and a more equal parent will help to reduce the pay gap in Norway. In many cases dealing with labour rights, the Left Party shows a lack of ability or willingness to understand power relationships between the employer and the employee, and I believe that the same is true of this issue. I believe that with a period of 12 years, as proposed, this would pose a risk for the employer to press ahead with the launching of leave withdrawals. In particular, I think it could be a problem for men who also with today's system have problems getting out more than their 14 weeks. In this perspective, the rhetoric of the right-hand side on freedom of choice becomes meaningless. We're talking about parents' time with children, and most parents are employees. So, finally, I want to file as a little visit that Norwegian families basically have good conditions in Norway through a decent working life with good holiday rights and good labour rights, and whose left and right sides are still concerned with ensuring parental time with their children, is also the work of a strong trade movement and central settlement crucial in that fight. The proposal of the left shows that there is no understanding of power, whether it is exercised between sexes or between classes. Therefore, SV will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e955	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Left for presenting the draft representative for parental leave. It's an expression of a positive commitment to family matters, which we also know and have seen through the media lately that the center party shares. It shows that there's a community in the center of the family. We're all busy improving the family's condition, and that with the best starting point for the child. We are concerned with better parental leave, but also with parental leave for more people by granting independent entitlement to the fathers and more to those who do not follow the line of work and thus receive a one-off allowance that represents only a fraction of the other receiving support. We have a very good parental leave scheme in Norway. We shall be proud and grateful to our predecessors for that. But it can get even better. It should benefit more people, and it should be further developed in line with the needs we see in society. The Christian People's Party wants a flexible parental leave. We have programmed that our solution is a flexible parental leave of 68 weeks, i.e. 16 months, and that these can be taken out until the child reaches the age of 10. We believe that parents should be able to distribute the leave period freely, but that 10 weeks should be reserved for each of the parents. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote. Our aim is to facilitate a better everyday life for the children by giving them more time with their parents. We will also make life easier for all parents by making it easier to combine working life and family life. We think everyday life could be much easier for many if they had more leave time to take out, for example. for school holidays and weekends. Just how the families are going to spend the extra time, we're not going to go into it, the point is more time for the family and that the children are going to be more together with their parents. We know today that as many families experience a break in life, the flexibility to which both the Left and the Christian People's Party belong will make it easier to get the cabal to go up even after a break in life, when getting together between the parents. It's clear that this costs money, as it's referred to, but we think it's right to prioritize it. It's time together that's really important. And socio-economically, it is important to facilitate and stimulate the birth of more children. So a little bit about the father's part of the parental leave, since it's become a theme in the setting. The Christian People's Party believes it is very positive that fathers take and get more responsibility for their own children. The participation of fathers in the child’s first year of life is important too early to establish a good relationship between father and child. The parental quota is particularly important because the gender distribution in the parental leave often sets the standard for the employment distribution of parents later in life. Increased parental withdrawals will also contribute to the sharing of care for children as they grow. At the same time, we have seen that there seems to be a statistical link between the sharing of care tasks and the risk of a breakup. In addition, a better distribution of leave withdrawals is positive for women’s position in the labour market. Experience shows that mild coercion is what is needed to change gender-based choices in this area. The parent quota has been shown to be very effective in increasing the proportion of fathers taking parental leave. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly put forward proposals and asked the Government to file a case that Dad, on an independent basis, is working up the right to paper commission, which not everyone has today. Finally, I want to follow up on Gjul's posts, where she refers to the plays that came on March 8 around the book from Simonsen and Yssen. There are many important discussions to be taken about the distribution of care at home even in the years to come, but just to achieve what we want, that fathers should get on the road more, it is important to talk about it in a way that does not devalue the parental role; that there is a burden that parents have to divide between themselves. It's actually something positive. We want fathers on the road to take a greater responsibility – as a privilege for parents to share, not as a burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e981	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e984	It's possible I have to start with a little bit of history. The women's movement has been enormously important in order to achieve in particular the permissive regime we're talking about here, but giving the left-hand side responsibility for all social reforms is perhaps a easier history rewriting. After all, everything from eight-hour day to sick pay was left-reforms long before parties that today boast about it were intended – just as they were said. I agree with the Workers' Party's definition of what the challenge is today, namely that fathers must be given the right to earn, and that fathers must take out more of the leave. I fully agree with that. That is why the Left has introduced the right of fathers to earn in their budgets, and that is why we have put forward this proposal for a representative. We were within a slop of school electoral rhetoric and old-fashioned thinking about the power of the working life here a little while ago. I want to bring this down to the reality of people, to the understanding of reality out there. Then I can tell two stories about two dads who have fought for this to be passed on to the Left. One had just started a business when the woman discovered that she was pregnant. Of course, they wanted this baby. The man has just started his own company and knows that exactly the six months that it is relevant for him to take out leave, is absolutely critical of his company. There is no job manager required here. He's just in that phase of his life. This wasn't completely super-planned, but it was super-disgusting. He lost his freedom of choice, for of course he gets transferred his leave to mother. Then you're actually in a phase that's so important that, according to today's rules, it's okay to transfer even the smallest weeks to your mother. The other story is about a father who has just travelled on tour, a big tour with a record launch. This is also a true story. This was planned for many years, that baby was not exactly as planned. There are a lot of fathers who experience this crash with their lives. It has nothing to do with employers who pressure them not to take leave. I don't think it's that much easier for an employer to push someone who wants leave for a one-year-old than anyone who wants leave for a six-year-old. This is reality out there. The reality is that people are not employed in large companies with disgusting capitalists as owners. There are a lot of people who are employed in their own small companies. Sometimes it is that you plan to have a mother have a baby when it suits your mother, but you don't care so much about it for Dad at the same time. With our proposal, it can suit Dad when it suits Dad, and Dad gets the opportunity to take out much longer leave than he has according to the system we have today. This is primarily a proposal to increase the freedom of choice of fathers and the ability of fathers to take longer leave. We could have promoted our basic proposal, but we in the Left are concerned with dialogue and the committee's proceedings, and now we see that we can get more involved. That is why we support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which we consider to be a slightly unified proposal of ours. Then we're at least two parties. I think this is going to be future, because there are very different lives. Not everyone fits into the socialist, square structures of power. It's actually completely different out there. There are small business papers out there. Out there, there are dads on a music tour, out there, there are moms and dads who live very different lives. We need rules to allow them to be good moms and dads who get to know their kids and get to spend time with them, sail if it doesn't fit into the squares we decide here at the house. This is not just a social reform and a father reform, but above all an electoral reform that allows people to be with their children much more than they get today. Because today we especially force fathers into a square, and they don't fit into it, they just get to have it as well. Then the train went. We believe that the fathers should not be left on the platform when the train leaves. We believe that there should be a route that suits them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1003	Let me first underline that today's parental leave can be completed until the child reaches the age of three. Parents may combine work and leave and thus extend leave. They may work full-time for a period and defer part of the leave to later. Most parents take out most of the leave in their first year of life. There are absolutely understandable reasons for that. It's a privilege to be at home with the child in the first year. But parents have different needs, and many take advantage of the flexibility of today's system. For example, some fathers do not take out the spring quota continuously, but distributed over a longer period, and many extend the leave on graduated withdrawals. It is fully possible with the arrangement we have today. For me, it's a point that fathers take out leave early, both to make early contact with the child and to take part in baby care. This contributes to an equal parenthood. We know that an equal parent also contributes to more stable and better families for fathers, mothers and children. The distribution of leave provides a basis for a good distribution of care tasks between parents, not only in the first year but also later, and gives mother and father equal opportunities for participation. An equal family is most robust in today's society. In Soria Moria II, the government has announced the extension of the parental leave to 48 weeks by 100 pst. coverage or 58 weeks by 80 pst. and extension of the spring quota to 14 weeks. The left proposes 15 months leave, of which three months are earmarked for father. Experiences from Iceland, Sweden and Norway suggest that fathers take out more than the birth rate, i.e. that most fathers are likely to take three out of the 15 months proposed by the Left. So it's going to give you a relatively smaller feather take-off than the government's arrangement. In addition, the fathers of the left model may withdraw their months when the child is in school. It does not, in my view, give the same effect on the care distribution as 14 weeks early in the child's life. When this comes to accusations of antisocial thinking because the question of power in working life is raised, I have to say that it's not about it, but about the reality of many men. The flexibility that citizens talk about can quickly prove to be the freedom of many men in our working lives. There are few things I get so many enquiries about, as fathers who in different ways face obstacles at their workplaces to take out leave. I therefore do not support the Left's proposal for a parental leave that can be used for the child is 12 years old. Permits should be used to provide flexibility and good care when children are small, while at the same time contributing to increased equality between parents. When, in addition, the Left's proposal is significantly more expensive than the scheme proposed by the Government, without responding to the main challenges, namely how we get more time with the children for father, and provide access rights for more men, I think it's a special use of big money. In conclusion, although we have a very good parental pension scheme in Norway, we still have some very important challenges to work with. In today’s legislation, parents are not fully equal as caregivers. Father's ability to take out his own earned rights depends on his mother's adjustments before and after birth, while mother can take out her rights completely regardless of what father does. The Human Notice announced the investigation of an equal and simplified system, and Soria Moria II states that the Government will ensure more groups of fathers independent of tax. This is something I'm working on. I have a very clear ambition to make suggestions on how we can create a more equal and simpler system that guarantees rights for more men, and that ensures our children good contact with both parents when they are young.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1024	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1028	One of the comments in the statement states that the entire Committee will point out that it is important to focus on a family policy based on the fact that each family should have a great deal of freedom to find the solutions that are appropriate. The Committee also agrees that different parents have different needs and that it is important that the policies pursued take this into account. Can the Council of State see that this conflicts with the policy of this government? The government obliges father to take out the weeks in the spring quota, while mother cannot take over the weeks, so that the parents themselves do not have the full freedom to distribute the weeks between themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1035	No, not at all. On the contrary, the policy of the Government gives more freedom to each family than to the policy of the bourgeois opposition. This is because the legislation we have today allows us to transfer the weeks to Mother if there are good reasons for that, to which it was referred in the example just mentioned by the representative Skei Grande. But where there is a fundamental distinction in this debate between the government parties and the opposition, we see that there are more than formal rules restricting the freedom of choice of families. These are the traditions and expectations that society, employers, women and men have to be their mother and father, which also impose clear limits, and which are the reason why almost no men took leave before the father quota came. That is also why if the representative Horne succeeds in his project to remove the spring quota, the clock will be turned back. More women will be at home. Fewer men want to be home. I think that means less freedom for the individual woman and man.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1040	I have two questions for the Council of State. Firstly, the Minister of Finance is in the media every day and says a lot about the economic outlook and the government budgets ahead. Having announced the expansion of the papacy commission in Soria Moria, is the question to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: If the Government wants to expand the papyrus issue, take the whole increase in the total parental leave we have today, if the budgetary situation so dictates and the Minister of Finance requires it, and so you do not get coverage for increased leave? The second question is raised by the post of the Council of State Lighthouses and the post of the representative Gjul: What is important for the Government’s view on parental leave? Is it the internal distribution fraction between mother and father, or is it the total care that kids get from their parents, which actually gets better if we extend the parental leave altogether?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1049	The overriding reason why we have introduced the leave scheme is the consideration of young people. There's also a belief that it's good for kids with like-minded families. If both women and men take an active part in child care, it creates more stable, robust families with a better reproductive environment for children. Therefore, the arrangements we have, with a father's quota, are for the child's best as well. I am skeptical of an extension of the total leave period in the direction proposed by the Christian People's Party and the Left. We already have a very rough leave arrangement. I think we're going to build up time something, not least to give room for a further increase in the feather quota, but then I think the time is right to make sure that everyone has the right to exit, rather than even more expansion of the total leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1056	There is something new to sit here in the Chamber and hear a Swedish State Council argue against schemes from a cost perspective. It's interesting to take it that we obviously encounter harder times. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to give Father the right to self-sufficiency? We all agree that Mom and Dad today are not equivalent to caregivers. Father has a B-stamp as a caregiver because he does not have an independent right to benefit. What will this government do to enable us to put in place, as soon as possible, a system in which the father is also guaranteed the independent right to benefit when he is to withdraw his father's quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1063	It's not radical to spend money in a bad way. SV has never been for the extension of the leave as far as the Left and Christian People's Party suggests. We do not think that is necessary. But we believe that a certain extension, in line with what the government has proposed, is wise, not least to provide more room for father. So it's said very clearly, both in the man report and in Soria Moria II, that the government has the ambition to bring about a more equal parental death scheme. That's about. 6000 men today who do not have access rights, and it is important to do something about it. That's why I'm working on a review of this whole system to see how we can create both a more equal system and a simpler system for families. That's something we're working on now, and we're going to come back to Stortinget with when we have a clear suggestion as to how such a model should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1070	The cord shift is over. The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1075	It is not my intention to pull this debate out, but there was a small dispute about who manages reality. In SV we have a slightly different reality picture – and I would of course think that it is closer to what I am seeing out there. Not everyone in Norway is his own boss. Fathers work in Statoil, at Rema, in Siemens, in health care, in child protection and around, and not everyone runs their own company. We know that men who want to take leave meet obstacles, even informal ones. We know that with the package and the thought that women are carers, there is also a package and a thought that men are not. The fight for the formal rights of fathers in the parental leave is also a struggle to be regarded as proper foster fathers, and you can experience a lot of ridicule as well as regular pressure. That's the stories we get to file. These men do not get a handshake from the right-hand rhetoric about freedom of choice. The left must like to think it's old-fashioned to talk about power and work life. I believe that the over 800,000 people who pay the quota to their trade union will disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1082	I would like to add some comments to what has been said. I very much agree with Mr. Skei Grande's comments. It appears that there has been a broad political majority that has raised important mechanisms in this area, both the parental leave and the extension of the papacy. The history – and the records from this room – show who has voted for what improvements and who has proposed increases in government. Then there is a cost element both in the proposal for the Left and in the proposal from the Christian People's Party, which is almost equivalent and which is being discussed. Obviously, it costs money, there's no doubt about it, and there's a big investment in the government budget, but it's going to be a bit of a bad perspective. We all know that one of the major issues that we dealt with in this room in the last period was just about a pension reform that was triggered by the birth of too few kids. It gives us great financial challenges in relation to the welfare arrangements in the future. So in that perspective, it's actually a good investment to facilitate family life, to make it easier for families to choose different solutions that make it attractive to give birth to more kids. This is not the only motivation for such a proposal, but it is important to look at the cost of such important investments. Then the representative shows Gjul again to the performance from Simonsen and Yssen on March 8th. I think it's relatively simplified to say that they say the same thing as the Equal pay Commission says, simply because they refer to the consequences of career and pay etc. Then they say if women are rational, they shouldn't have children. I actually hope that the representative Gjul doesn't join, because it's a very clear choice of value to say that those values are more important than giving care to kids and spending time and investing a part of their lives on it. In order for us to create a more equal distribution in the responsibility for the parent role, we have to talk up the parent role, appraise it, so that we show that it's actually a privilege for men, and not talk it down as a burden, which inhibits other things that are really important in life, such as career and status. That, I think, is a basic starting point for us to reach the intentions that many of us here in the hall have associated with equal distribution of care for young people and getting fathers on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1095	The representative Håbrupke's last post made me have to take the word again. Hope really can't have understood what this is all about, because there's someone who's really fought for the freedom of women, it's the left side of Norwegian politics. What has happened is that Norwegian women have had an option. Norwegian women have the opportunity that most other women, including in southern Europe, not having. We can actually choose both to have children and to be active. What we have done is that we have provided for good parental leave schemes, kindergarten and not least that we have an organized and regulated working life. So pulling in Yssen and Marie Simonsen, which says that if women are rational, they wouldn't choose to have children -- then you kind of don't know what this debate is really about. Because what it's about is that we have to have arrangements that allow women to make choices – not based on what is expected of the role of their mother, but on what she thinks is best. Still, we have great expectations of the role of mother. Many people talk about ‘a bad mother’, but it’s very rare you hear the term ‘bad father’. In the event of a breakup, there are a lot of mothers who experience that if there is a father who becomes a caregiver, the caregiving and the ability to care for the kids will automatically be asked. It really tells us that we have a pretty long way to go, and that there has to be a lot of action to make sure that women actually get real freedom of choice, and that families get a real freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1105	It was the representative Gjul who made me take the floor. I think it is a pity that this debate has been exasperated to be a debate on the stupid play that came from Ingunn Yssen and Marie Simonsen on 8 March. It is so foolish that it should not even have been mentioned from this pulpit. It shows how cramping initiatives from the left in Norwegian policy are, when you have nothing else to discuss on March 8th, but that women who give birth are unhappy because they do not have the same opportunities in working life. Now it starts to be put so at the head that even people who are for equality and almost for quotaing start to shake their heads and say that now the whole debate is just beginning to be a parody. What scares me is the red-green argument in the debate on parental leave. They argue that father and mother should be treated as closely as possible. They forget that parental leave is, in fact, a scheme to ensure that the child is well cared for. In the first year of life, parental leave shall give the child the opportunity to be taken care of and to bind strongly to both mother and father. It seems like it's completely subordinate -- the most important thing is that mom and dad take out just as much leave. It's going to be completely wrong for me. We completely forget that this is about taking care of the child in its first year of life. I think it's going to be completely wrong when equality goes so far that the main goal is that mom and dad should earn just the same amount of money, that both mom and dad should be the director, and that mom and dad should be the same amount of money at home. You completely ignore the need that every family has to choose how to live their lives, and it's also not to show respect to women who, for some years of their life, may choose to work in a smaller job share, who may choose not to earn half a million, but to be at home with the kids and follow them up. I think it's sad that we've come there that you don't respect women for the choice they make, both in terms of professional life and children, that it should be that you don't be seen as a successful woman if you don't make enough money and work a hundred percent, but actually choose to be home with your kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1113	The President will recall that the concept of 'bad' has been advocated by former Presidents, even though in this context it was the opinion of non-Government representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1116	After the last decade, I need to make a few final reflections. Now I haven't read the Yssen and Simonsen's book, I'm going to do that. But this is not a debate about whether someone thinks it is wrong to have children, but a reflection of what the Equal pay Commission has also said, namely that many women lose their jobs when they have children. I think that, with respect to reporting, is something that should worry us all, and that is politically important to address. Let me say that when the representative of Hofstad Helleland takes up the red-greens in order to lack respect for women's choices, I think it's rather special, including these indications that we should not be concerned with the best of the child. So it's been two days since we dealt with the Children's Act, where we see in a number of areas that there may be important equality policy considerations that it is difficult to take because we give priority to the child's best. We've been very clear about that. I must also say that I think it is a bit nice both to read the Right Comment and to try to interpret the Right Position in this debate. The representative of Hofstad Helleland said in his speech that it is obviously more important for the Government to increase equality than to give the family a better family life. No, that's not it. Equality is important because it gives families and children a better family life. That's where we have a fundamental disagreement, because the right-hand side doesn't see that importance. Then I also find it a little strange that it is impossible to find out what the Right now thinks about parental leave for the future. On the one hand, the representative of Hofstad Helleland is out and will abolish the feather quota, while other representatives of the Right will not. The comment in this case is impossible to interpret in any direction, so there is a great deal of uncertainty about what this means. Then I get a little need to remind myself that the crusade that the representative of Hofstad Helleland is obviously involved in against all forms of quotaing, is not a settlement with all the world's socialism and harmful forces that she is engaged in. It is also a settlement with her own party's history, which has backed up most of the quota proposals – whether it be commercial or spring quota – over the years. So what the right really stands for in this case, it's cool impossible to figure out, and I think it's more than me who had the pleasure of getting it solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1127	The President is not sure whether the term ‘crusade’ is a term that should be used by the Chair, especially against the Right. The next speaker is Øyvind Håbreek. The representative has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1132	It wasn't my intention to drag the debate so much longer. But I want to make it clear to the representative, Gjul, that what I tried to address was that Gjul referred to Simonsen and Yssen as if they were in practice saying the same thing as the Equal pay Commission. But according to VG 8 March, the ice says: "Our point is that if women had acted rationally, they would not have had a child." It was therefore alarming that the representative, Gjul, said that they said the same thing as the Equal pay Commission. But they don't. I am not going to take the representative Gjul to the income for what they have said. But I think, even after the last round, that it's important to point out that there's too much hope for the mother's role, doesn't have to mean that we're going to draw expectations down to the role that father's had in history. There should be no goal, and it is not for the child's best. We should evaluate the father's role and thus get better care for the kids overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1144	Now this debate is starting to get really interesting. Who has the credit for the good arrangements we have today should be unsaid here. But I just want to remind the hall that one of the country's foremost women champions is Betzy Kjelsberg, who is the great-grandmother of the Party leader of the Progress Party. It may be that there are some good things there. I guess the system we have today isn't one that's told us to cut. We have one of the world's best arrangements. Who has the credit for it is not the important thing, but that we have a very good order. The council stands here and says he's terrified of giving the family full freedom, he's terrified of thinking that the best thing for the child is maybe that mother is longer at home, or maybe that father is longer at home than the weeks he has today. He says that more men will not be at home, or more women will be at home. Yeah, what's up? The most important thing must be for the child to have his or her parents at home as far as possible. The party of progress is a bourgeois party, and the difference between the bourgeois and the socialist parties in this is that we have faith in the family, we have faith in father. I think that when the modern father today gets the freedom to choose how many weeks he'll be at home, he chooses to be at home. I'm not afraid he'll say that then it might be, then he doesn't want to be home. The party of progress has faith in the family, faith in the modern father. That's what's going to be the best thing for the child – that parents themselves get the full freedom to decide who's going to be at home with the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1153	The issues we are discussing today are, to a very large extent, issues of development, of attitude development. I think it's striking how the red-green parties, and perhaps especially SV, struggle to hang out in time. It's a rhetoric and an argument that I think I remember – and that's when I feel old, when I start to remember – from very, very many years ago. I think it's important to remember that the world has actually evolved quite a lot, that the world is dynamic, and attitudes are in strong development. The right starting point is that the right will be a party that will look ahead, and we will have a debate on this from the realities of our time. This is not a static phenomenon. It is quite right, as the Council of State pointed out instead, that the Right has supported quotaing. The right has supported many grips around equality that have had to do with setting a framework for choices. But we believe it is high time to take part of those debates up again, because we believe that new generations of men look differently at the question of taking responsibility at home. Fortunately, we have been in such a development. We think it is important to take these debates now, and we are going to have important debates on these issues at our national meeting in May. So I also think that part of this is the result of a fair and strong women's fight up through, perhaps especially in the 1970s and 1980s. I think that the gender perspective at the time was at least as important as the child's best perspective, without having to make any final accounting on one or the other. I don't necessarily want to criticise it either because the equality question was – what to say – very justified to address. But I think that now that we're discussing this again, it's necessary to take care of the child's best interests as a whole, to have it heavier in the discussion than I think was the case with many crossroads when the main course for this was set 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1178	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker was Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Lars Bjarne Tvete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1189	I want to start by giving praise to the Left, which is behind this proposal. That's a very good suggestion. The only thing that is wrong with the proposal is that it does not get a majority in this Chamber today. However, a unanimous committee agrees with the Left-wing proposers that child protection is a very important participant in order to ensure that all children receive a safe and well-growth. There is no doubt that child protection has significant tasks in today's society, especially when it comes to municipal child protection, where we feel that some municipalities have a well-functioning and good child protection, while others struggle with little resources and long-term remains. This has serious consequences for the young people concerned. A unanimous committee also agrees with the Left that child protection does not have the power to provide the assistance needed by many children due to major resource and interaction challenges. It is therefore important to stress the importance of the establishment and continuation of research and development programmes, in order to disseminate good knowledge of the challenges facing child protection and how child protection succeeds in its work and why it does not succeed. It is important to look at financial management and resource management in the area of child protection at both state and local level. The aim is to achieve effective child protection, where resources are used for actions directly aimed at children and their families, and not at a top-notch organisation with unnecessary bureaucracy and administration and where political and ideological leadership is governing the business. The right considers that total responsibility for child protection at municipal level in a number of municipalities will provide better child protection. We have this, among other things. seen through the pilot project in Trondheim, where they showed very good results over four years as a pilot municipality. During the trial period, the level of child protection competence in the municipality was strengthened, and there was a high degree of political commitment and willingness to invest financially in child protection. It's not weird. Local politicians were given responsibility, and through that responsibility they also became much more involved in child protection, and provided increased financial resources. At all, the offer to children and young people was improved, and it evolved to be very diverse during the period of the pilot project in Trondheim. It is very unfortunate that the pilot project was not continued when everyone agrees that the project proved to have such good results. On the right, we share the wish of the proposers to open up the possibilities for municipalities to take full responsibility for all the scope of child protection. To this end, the right supports the Left’s proposal to look at the division of labour between the Municipal Child Protection Service and Buffetat. I assume that the other parties explain their individual views, and I want to address the suggestions that the Right Party is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1206	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1209	It's a big focus on child protection, and it's important. Proposals shall be commended for putting the question on the agenda. It may be absolutely vital for a person's life that society is able to intervene as quickly as possible when it is seen that children need extra follow-up and may be subjected to care failure. That is why there is also a broad and cross-political consensus that we want an equivalent and good provision of child protection across the country. Unfortunately, we are still told that this is not the case. Some municipalities break the law every day. And we also see that there's a lot of inequality between municipalities. Another example of an unforgivable sin of omission was received in the evening post today, where we see that child protection has received a two-digit number of concerns about the growth of two children from a mother and yet did not intervene. It is told that the boys were raped, that they have been kept underwater to be threatened to commit sexual acts on men and on one another. Child protection reported it to the police, but the police did not intervene. What we also see in the matter is that the first concerns were reported already when the oldest boy was only six months old. So this is not just about the failure of child protection, but it is about the fact that there is a wide range of measures that obviously do not work well to protect and help children. Attention is also desirable in this room and with proposals from the parties on what can be done to improve the situation. But I find it hard to see that the proposal we are now debating is solving some of the world's things in today's situation, rather the opposite. I think maybe the biggest cities would have the power to take such a responsibility, but for the vast majority of today's municipalities, this could be dramatic. They already work with too few employees and major tournaments, which limit continuity and good professionalism. The proposers also say in the proposal that this will be successful if ‘a municipal reform is implemented in which several public tasks are decentralised from the state to the municipalities’, and that ‘such a reform requires a new municipal structure that will ensure that far more children than today live in municipalities with sufficient expertise and professionals in the field of child protection’. But these assumptions are far from in place today. That is why the rapporteurs themselves argue that this proposal should not be adopted today. I agree with the Council of State in the letter of reply that this needs to be carefully evaluated, and that you need to look at the whole of the measures around the children who need help. Yesterday, the county of Nord-Trøndelag provided the annual statistics on the child protection service in the county. It resulted in the front page of the Trønder-Avisa today, which says that child protection fails, and that there is a dramatic situation around the municipalities. The County Council points in particular to three areas, which I would also ask the Council of State to include in its evaluation work in the context of stepping up child protection. One is the ownership role in today's municipal structure. We see that intermunicipal cooperation works well, but not well enough, and that it may indicate that some councillors who do not have the responsibility of the host municipality lend something back, and there may be a potential risk that they will leave responsibility to those who have the responsibility of the host municipality. There are already major manning problems, with large turnovers, which prevent stability, and this should be looked at in this context. The second is the percentage of child protection. The county of Nord-Trøndelag has produced statistics for the last ten years that show that the rate of accommodation has been around 40 over the entire ten-year period. At the same time, child protection leaders across the country say that the complexity of matters is increasing and that the severity is increasing. I ask the question whether this means that the threshold of actually responding to children in need of help has become higher, in line with a development of more serious problems around these children. A stable deposition rate actually indicates that. The third is that two and a half of the children who are currently taking action are actually lacking a plan of action. There is a breach of the guidelines that is, therefore, it must also be included in the evaluation. With this in mind, I would like to refer to the rapporteurs' own arguments. I believe that the Storting is wise to await the evaluation that the Council of State has outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1235	Child protection is very important. It's one of the most important issues that this committee is working on. Child protection shall be a national tool to help the children in need of assistance. But when I listen to the posts of Arild Stokkan-Grande – who was also a very good post – where he pointed to a lot of child protection failure, child protection failure, a high percentage of accommodation, and that we have had several episodes in the media in recent times that show how crazy the situation in child protection is, I must remind you that the government parties and the Labour Party have run the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality for many of the last years. Why has this not been addressed before? I'm just asking myself that. The intention of the proposal that is on the table today is very good, but I do not think the proposals that are there are the solution to the issue of child protection today. I think the more solutions lie in the proposal that we are going to discuss next Thursday, where there are concrete proposals that might help in the field of child protection. Child protection is important to ensure that all children are brought up safely. When the nearest ones fail, it's important that we have a device that works perfectly optimally and ensures that the children who need it get help. Child protection has one of the most important tasks. They have a great responsibility that they have to take with them. For the Progress Party, it has been most important that child protection helps families as far as possible, so that you may avoid getting an acquisition. But all too often we see that you have to take the children from your parents. We often see that it's too late, which is what child protection should look at. It's disastrous when child protection fails, for the children who need it are actually the weakest of the weakest, and they need help from the state. I also refer to the matter that it was said about in the evening post today: In Vestfold counties, then, three municipalities have received strong criticism – one has received strong criticism and the other two have broken the Child Protection Act. I'm absolutely sure this isn't a unique case. This actually happens more every day in the individual municipalities. There is something that the Council of State needs to take with it, and look at the guidelines and procedures of child protection in each municipality, to ensure that this does not happen again. It's important to have supervision. We have received a report from the National Audit Office, before Christmas, which shows that very many of the children who are entitled to supervision are not supervised. We also see any omissions that do not result. We have to fix that. The child protection reform that was adopted had many good intentions. It was supposed to ensure a similar offer for all children in the country. But we often see that this is not the case. We have a lot of small municipalities where everyone knows everyone, and where the municipality has no finances or resources to give children the offer they should have. The size of the store makes the law, but the child protection does not follow up. We've seen that multiple times. Then the government boasts that they have a government budget of 400 new posts. A lot of municipalities have said that they have not been able to follow this up. It's worrying, because when it's given money and boasted that now we're going to get a raise in child protection and it doesn't happen, it goes out on the kids. For the Progress Party, the counties have also been an important matter. We want to put the students down. We want to have another solution to this. We clearly see that the situation we have today, with a long trial period, is not good either for the family or for the child. It also has to be corrected. We see that there are major conflicts between the municipalities and the state child protection. It's something that you have to focus on. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will not at the moment be involved in transferring everything to the municipalities – we do not believe that this is the solution. The municipalities have to make it work, what they have today. The intention of the proposal we are currently considering is good: all children should be given equal opportunities and all children should be guaranteed safe growth conditions. But I think it's important that we look at the arrangements we have today, that we do them better, and that the child protection that we have today meets the law that is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1263	Firstly, I would like to commend the Left once again for giving priority to family policy and child protection, even when, unfortunately, they are no longer represented in the Committee. With regard to the concrete proposal from the Left that we are now discussing, the Christian People's Party agrees that it is reasonable to go through the division of labour between the state and municipal child protection. At the same time, however, we would stress that it is too early to conclude whether the current organisation of child protection should change significantly. Nor should we underestimate the value of a strong children's, youth and family budget, with the opportunities it offers for good responsibilities, professional development and well-established cooperation with other relevant services. But we therefore support the proposal to review the division of labour. Nevertheless, it is important to see such a proposal in the context of the overall situation in the field of child protection. And it's important to stress that it's not primarily the organisation that's the main problem, because today's situation is that there are major deficiencies in all aspects of child protection. There is also evidence of this in the latest budget proposal from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. We don't succeed in helping all the kids who need our help. It's very serious and sad, and we can't accept that the situation is like that. Due to the weak local economy, there are concerns not being reviewed. For the same reason, many people are not offered post-protection. The resource situation in municipalities therefore leads to too little capacity, too few employees, too little time and too little competence. Therefore, it may also be reasonable to review the division of labour between State and municipal child protection. But I would like to stress that it is not just the municipal child protection that is struggling. The participants are unable to comply with the time limits for processing. Hundreds of children are waiting for a foster home. Similarly, it is with those who have a foster home and do not have a supervisor. So there is a need for a broad escalation of child protection resources as such. It is then sad to note that the position that the Committee has delivered today, which is about that, and where there is a chance to make a cross-political, wide-ranging national commitment to child protection, clearly shows that the majority in the Chamber, the government parties, will not carry out such an escalation. There are no ambitions or objectives for child protection that are in any way related to the challenges. The representative, Stokkan-Grande, says that child protection fails to protect children. It's a very strong statement from the largest government party. But who governs child protection? It is the majority government that governs child protection. The conclusion is therefore that it is the red-green and government that fail child protection. There has been a chance to participate in a common cross-political promise, and it shows the committee position today that you are not willing to participate. When you say so strongly from the pulpit here today about the situation in the field of child protection and the only concrete contribution is that the proposal we have to deal with today is not to be adopted, it does not hold, and it does not stand as a believer. The opposition should be encouraged to await the Government's own evaluation of the child protection reform and assessment of the state. But what we have to deal with today is that the opposition is impatient. We don't have time, and child protection doesn't have time to wait for an evaluation from a government that is unable to show its ambitions for child protection, which is unable to tell us what goals and deadlines have been set to achieve in a totally unacceptable situation, where children for whom the authorities have assumed responsibility are not offered a proper offer. It requires ambition, it requires goals, it requires action. That is what this debate must be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1284	The intention behind the Left's proposal is that we see that today we have a child protection that is under heavy pressure and that does not work well, and then we have to look at whether the structures and resources are properly prioritised. For me, it is important that the child is at the centre of child protection – that it is not the state’s need, organisation or structure, nor the municipal structure. I believe that we should organise the state of public welfare in such a way that you get your tasks done. If it's so misorganized, we have to reorganize, because that's the task that's the point. If we have a structure that isn't adapted to make good deals, we have to do something about it. There is another thing that surprises me, and I also support the proposal on testing schemes: once the testing schemes have been carried out and the testing schemes prove to be working, why are they not allowed to continue? It's a big wonder for me. It happens that I tell child-restraint people that they hope that as a child-restraint child, you are in one of the big municipalities, such as the city. Oslo. The reason for this is the numbers we see, for example. in Trønder-Avisa today. There you can see that the number of concerns per person. employed in Nord-Trøndelag is far above the average. 253 children in small Nord-Trøndelag received their concerns message without any study. We're looking at numbers on how you can't deal with the challenges. It's not like there's a paradise somewhere else either, but if you're going to make good arrangements around kids, you actually have to make arrangements around the kids and not try to get the kids to fit into the arrangements. The way the structure is today, you bring power up – you lead the structures up – and then the kids just get so good to fit into it. Those who sit and decide what should apply to each child are not even those who meet the children. Here, it is clear that not only resources — more resources — are needed to ensure good child protection, but also a new organisation and not least competence. We need to shift skills and knowledge closer to our children – closer to them. Same thing you've been up to in the past, you have to be able to review the arrangements again. In today's BT, an investigation has been presented to show what people who are employed in child protection are seeing about the job they do. It turns out that in the institutional and foster home offering to Bufetat, questions arise as to whether they think it is well adapted to the needs, and 77 pst answers. of the child-restraint workers in the municipalities that they are in total or in part in disagreement. 77 pst. of those working in municipal child protection believe that the institutional and foster home offer to Bufetat is too poor. It's actually like 41 pst. within Bufetat also believes it is too bad. But 77 pst. Of those who sit with their children in their office, it seems too bad. It is mainly child-restraint workers in municipalities who believe that the systems around them are not working. Then the question is, are they the ones who are right, or are we the ones who are right? I believe that it is those who work in local child protection – those who meet each child, those who need to find systems for each child – who are the best people to assess this. I understand that the Progress Party does not agree with the Left’s proposal – that is quite logical. The progress party will have more state and more price and more individual, while we want the decentralization of power and solutions that are adapted to each, rather than standards that people are going to enter into. So that makes sense. But I am very pleased that today we have received a proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party, which I believe is also an ideological approach in terms of where we believe that the power in relation to the children should be. I think it should be as close to the children as possible. I want professionals who can see the children in their eyes to find solutions for them. I want people who know the everyday life of the children to find solutions for them. Then there has to be organisational action, there has to be a grasp of competences, but first of all you have to shift power down – power down to where the children are.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1299	All children shall have equal opportunities and be given safe conditions of growth. For us as a society, it is a particularly important task to make sure that it also applies to children with child protection. We have a special responsibility. It is the municipal child protection service that has the primary responsibility for children in child protection, and the state regional child protection service is to assist municipalities by offering institutions, providing foster homes and helping municipalities in the difficult cases. The goal is an equivalent and good child protection offer across the country. The representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden believe that municipal child protection is not capable of providing children with adequate and adequate assistance, and I agree with that in part. Many municipalities carry out their statutory duties, but we recognize that there are geographical differences in the supply of the most vulnerable children. Some municipalities break the Children's Protection Act every day. We can't accept that on behalf of our children, and that's why we have to do something about it. The representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden believe that the child protection reform has led to further red tape of child protection, and that the solution is to give the municipality overall responsibility for child protection. It is a proposal that has been investigated in the past. Prior to the 2004 reform, the transfer of municipal tasks to the municipal sector was also assessed. The competence and capacity of the municipality was one of the arguments against such a transfer. Small municipalities are initially difficult to obtain qualified staff, and in addition it was not realistic to imagine that all municipalities should have their own institutional services. It was initially difficult for the county councils, and there was no reason to believe that it would be easier for the municipalities. For the largest municipalities, which have a population base equal to or greater than many counties, the Ministry at the hearing considered that taking over the tasks of county councils in the field of child protection and possibly the area of family protection would be feasible. But with the then municipal structure, the characteristic of a large number of small municipalities, there was also reason to ask questions about the competence and capacity of the small municipalities to take over the county responsibility. I find reason to remember that it was the parties that today appear to be most critical of this reform, which had government responsibility when this reform was being worked through. So it's tempting to interpret the new sounds of the bourgeois parties as a recognition that they didn't do good enough work that time. It is structural problems in the area of child protection that we must address, but I miss a slightly more sobering attitude of the citizens in view of the history they have in connection with this reform. Today’s organisation has been in place since 2004. That's the basis, I mean, to ask questions about whether we're best served with today's organization, or whether we can do it in other ways. But to make such assessments, we need systematic knowledge. We are now in the start-up phase of a comprehensive evaluation of the state child protection reform. We're going to look at a number of important areas. It includes state child protection assistance for municipal child protection, the provision of institutions, cooperation between child protection and mental health protection, and we also need to evaluate the economic and professional governance of state child protection. That evaluation shall include not only own organisation but also the cooperation of child protection with other important bodies in the life of children, such as: mental health protection. The community perspective becomes important in the evaluation. Municipalities have a primary responsibility for children's protection and follow-up responsibility when the child receives assistance in the form of state measures. We have one child protection in Norway today, and this evaluation must also reflect this. The results of the evaluation will be available in 2011. It will provide us with a better basis for assessing the issues on which the representatives of the Left are also concerned. It is important to consider how, within today’s structure, we can achieve better results both in terms of cooperation between municipalities and countries, in terms of overall resource use, and in terms of, for example: the provision of institutions to children. The government has recently done a lot in this area, both in strengthening municipal child protection, in strengthening supervision, and in initiating processes to improve Bufatat. I recognise that it needs to be done more, and I agree that we need to look at the structures of child protection, but I believe it is imperative that we ensure thorough knowledge before we come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1316	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1319	It is good to hear that the Council of State is as concerned about the situation in child protection as it is. I just hope there's going to be an order of it. The case we read about in the evening post today about three municipalities in Vestfold, two of which have committed crimes and one gets strong criticism, is really worrying. It was terrible to read and hear about such a situation. The problem is that I don't think these are the only cases. Many municipalities often resolve matters because they hope that one might move to another municipality. The council itself said that some municipalities are violating the Children's Protection Act every day. It is the Council of State that is responsible for not doing this. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State now oblige all municipalities to go through their procedures and ensure that the municipalities do not violate the Child Protection Act? And I have one more question: What are the consequences for municipalities that violate the Child Protection Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1329	I think I am responding to the matter that has arisen, in the same way that all the members of the committee do. We are deeply concerned that such things can happen in Children's Protection Norway. It is important that this is followed up. It is such that there are too many municipalities, among others. is a small satisfactory relationship between the number of cases and case handlers. It is a resource issue, but it is also an important structural and routine issue. It is now the State Health Authority that has the overall responsibility for overseeing. It is important that, in matters where there are objections to the situation, whether it be national or municipal child protection, we ensure that supervision follows up these things, and that the municipalities, in the end, follow up the reports and instructions they receive. I assume that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1336	The Red-Green Child Protection Spokesman says in the pulpit here that child protection has failed children's protection. It is a common judgment of the red-greens themselves over their own efforts since 2005. It only means one thing, that the red-greens have failed the child-restraints the most when we – if not every day, almost every week – read serious stories in the newspapers about how the child-restraint children experience everyday life. I record that the Council of State in several areas claims that there is also work going on in relation to child protection. From the Right, we don't have time to sit and watch that so many children are subjected to serious abuse. We don't have time to see more children being exposed to more horrible events. What will the Council of State do in the short term to improve the situation of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1343	I am concerned about improving the resource situation in municipal child protection, and I am concerned that we are looking at how we can turn stones to do something about the structural problems we have in child protection. But I have to remember when it is said that the Right does not have time – I fully agree with it, I do not have time – that we must have a grip that works, and there we have a common responsibility. I think it would be useful for child protection if we took seriously the cross-political concern that is for this, rather than making it a party policy, because I do not, of course, record that the Right in its alternative budget had solutions such as that. would have caused us to have a different resource situation in child protection. We have to assume that an important reason for the situation we are in in the municipalities is not that it has not been committed in recent years, but that the number of cases has increased even more than the amount of bet. It is also a result of the improvement of child protection and the achievement of more. But it also creates bigger challenges, and means that we have to bet even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1353	It is true, as the Council of State says, that it was the Bondevik II government that proposed and implemented the reform that is organizing child protection today. But there are no parties that six years after reform, will lean back and say that now everything is fine. We will further develop the organisation of child protection and review the division of labour. The Council of State is – I must say – very honest about the situation of child protection, not least in the municipality, when he says that some municipalities break the Children's Protection Act every day. Then I have to say: we have listened and listened and listened to the Council of State who has been talking and talking about child protection for a long time, and it also has other councils before him. But I just have to say, we don't know how the council has intended to deal with it. We don't know what the Council of State intends to do with child protection. So the question is simply, how long are we going to wait before we know what the council is going to do with child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1360	That's the way I've notified you, that we're going to evaluate the reform. I think it is necessary to do so before we can propose major structural changes. I also believe that the representative representing the party that spent four years making the reform will agree with me. That evaluation is therefore due in 2011. With regard to the resource situation in municipal child protection, I call for a little more clarity from the representative, Håbreek, whom I think has made a good proposal – which we will be discussing next week – that is knowledgeable and which goes to the heart of the problems more than the proposal we are discussing today. But when he swings to the great heights that the Government will not vote for his proposal next week, I rather think he will look at the extent to which we meet the description of reality, and say that we should do something about it, and then realize that it has always been like this in Norway – always will be like this – that a government governs through budget proposals, not through private proposals from the Christian People's Party. It's still going to be like that. But I believe that the glimmer with which we meet Håbrupke's proposals should be reasonably reflected, that we see that we have a cross-political concern and a cross-political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1367	“Rausheit” was a good key, and the government thinks they’re loud when they vote down proposals both today and other days – that’s okay. The Council of State believes that there is a daily violation of the law, and agrees with us when we say that it is not acceptable. What's interesting then is to hear if it's at all possible to show some roughness in relation to the proposal that's here today. Are there elements that the Council of State sees as positive in the proposal that has come, or is this completely disc bomb – and all should start again? After all, the government has had five years to restart again, sail if it is not the Council of State that has been sitting and having responsibility all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1374	I mean, as I said in my speech, that this reform, which also the Left in the government was helping to create, and the criticism that is now coming against it, shows that there are things about the reform that were not done well enough. There is also a kind of concession from the Left through this proposal. I agree that we need to look at the structural challenges we face in the interaction between municipal and state child protection, and look at how we get the best possible use of resources, how we avoid duplication of work, and how we get the most consistent way of meeting children. So I have said on several occasions, including in my article in the debate today, that many of these challenges are challenges I also see; they are issues I also see, but I think it is hasty today to conclude with what should be the future organisation. We will have a good basis for such a debate when the evaluation is available next year. I'm initially willing to turn rocks here and have no prior position on what the solutions should be. There is a debate I am looking forward to, which we need to include with sufficient transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1381	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1386	I would believe that also members of the Christian People's Party believe that it is wrong to speak falsely, and perhaps especially from this pulpit. But when Øyvind Hope claims that government parties do not want a child-restraint plan, it is a false claim. Hopefully, it knows both when he looks at the state budget, which has taken into account 400 new child protection posts, and when he reads the letter of reply from the Council of State where he says that it may be the first step in a long-term and comprehensive child protection programme. I also think there is reason to remind the assembly that, after all, there has been quite a grip on child protection in recent years. Reforms have been implemented, money has been granted, legislation has been strengthened, among others. the obligation to document and to evaluate how to follow up the children and the obligation to provide feedback to those who report concerns about the protection of children. The problem is that despite constant changes in rules, structural changes and appropriations, this happens, and it is likely to continue to happen. Despite an amazing effort by those who work in child protection, they must also see that they are unable to help all the children they would have liked to help. It's about system failure also from other agencies, which I pointed to in my previous post. We also need to remember that part of the increase in child protection requests is actually about greater trust in child protection. It's positive. Therefore, an ever-increasing number of enquiries is not just a problem. But it becomes problematic if we see that the lack of resources, coupled with the increased number of requests, leads to a higher threshold for intervention against children. Then we have a serious problem. The Committee has also heard through consultation that the protection of children is given tasks for which other bodies are strictly responsible. Therefore, I believe it is wrong to adopt such a proposal as we have before us today, precisely because it takes into account a municipal structure with a portfolio that is completely different from what the reality picture is like today. That's why I and the majority believe that we need a comprehensive and thorough evaluation, and that in that process, when the Government returns to the Stortinget with its own case after the evaluation, we have the opportunity to turn all the stones to make sure that we get a child protection that works for our children. We must all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1397	It's tempting to have a little bit of history written on the basis of the very correct starting point of the Council of State that this reform was the Bondevik II government that stood for. I can assure the Council of State that there was no simple matter at the time rather to find the grip that was the result. During the entire previous ageing period, child protection was a repetition in this room. Under alternate state councils, we had one debate after another – I get to say one worse than the other – based on actual examples of how child protection has worked. I think it is very gratifying that the Council of States has at least come to the realization that something needs to be done here. There is something new with this Council of States. There have been some government councils before we got there. I am pleased to receive the evaluation that has been announced. I hope that it will not take long from an evaluation until we actually get a real debate and proposals for solutions, because this is to those degrees of overtime. I think that when the government has been doing this for almost five years, it's time for a little bit more, we'll say, imagination in terms of harvesting experiences. To the extent that I think the government deserves criticism, it's simply because I think you've been stiff-legged in connection with, for example. to launch some pilots in this area. Some municipalities have set in motion intercommunal cooperation between the small municipalities for their own machinery, and have tried to approach what has been the most important and central issue of a municipal solution. I think the government could have strengthened those attempts and perhaps gained experience from these attempts as well. Over the years, the right has had a number of very concrete proposals on how to improve child protection. I can hope that someone will turn to the papers, because I can't explain this right now. But if you turn one in the papers, you want one, for example. find ideas on a common Internet portal for child protection that could make the offers more accessible, look at the balance point between foster home and institution and perhaps also look at the private resources in this area and how to strengthen the overall supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1411	Let me first stress that there is a lot of good work in Norwegian child protection every single day by skilled professionals across the country. Let me also say that I respect the fact that the government parties want a solution where you want to run your own evaluation process, you want to spend more time, etc. and await it. What I don't manage to settle down with is to wait for such a long evaluation process and then come back to the Storting after a few years, without knowing what direction you're thinking – what goals you have, what ambitions you have for this sector. In its reply, the Council of State points out to me that the government parties govern through their budgets and not through Document 8 proposals from the opposition. I think it was a rather special statement. I assume he didn't mean it like that, but he was very close by depreciating the government parties' responsibility for his own voting in this room. There is reason to ask questions about, especially when he also mentions the proposal referred to as a good proposal. In addition, when you say that you're running through the annual budgets, what does that mean? In fact, it is the government's own choice to direct the child protection sector from budget to budget, because funds have been invested for some new posts in municipal child protection for the current year. But what happens next year? There is no one who knows – not even the Council of State – until the budgetary conference of the Government is over. The fact is that in other areas, the Government has provided large-scale reports and plans, and we have adopted joint planning documents here in the Chamber – care, mental health, the nursery sector and full childcare. The government has presented its plans for years to come: here we are today. There we are going, and we are going to follow that in the budgets ahead. During his recent speech to the County Council on 23 February, the State Council, according to the Ministry’s website, said: ‘But we need to be honest with the fact that the challenges are great, and that there is a need for a promise – not least in the area of municipal child protection, in addition to the need to improve cooperation between different actors in the area of child protection.’ I'm holding on to my claim. The councils have been talking and talking. We've been listening and listening. And I don't know what the council wants with child protection, what kind of ambitions, goals and deadlines he's set to solve the very serious challenges that the government parties themselves have pointed out here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1429	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1445	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1454	The state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmann. Both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. Samemen, in addition, are indigenous peoples who have a call for special cultural protection under international law. The merger is therefore also established by the law of partnership in order to comply with the Constitution § 110a. This gives the whole thing a special status as a popularly elected body with great freedom. I would like to take this opportunity to also thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I would like to express my satisfaction that there is such a broad consensus in this country in terms of Sami issues. An overall committee, i.e. all lots, with the exception of the Party of Advancement, shall agree on the observations in this case. The 2008 Joint Annual Report sets out the work of the Sameting, the tasks of the Sameting and economic and administrative challenges. The communication covers a wide range of areas, ranging from work on discrimination and gender equality, cross-border co-operation, regional policy issues, land and environment policy issues, through culture, cultural memory protection and languages, to kindergartens, schools and the preservation of traditional knowledge. It is not possible, within the framework of this article, to address anything affecting the Sami communities. I have to draw up something, and it is not that what is not mentioned here is not considered important. The majority of the Committee has taken note of the need to clarify the budgetary procedures applicable between the Government and the Sameting. I understand that the Sameting, like the municipalities, needs a certain predictability in the budget framework from year to year. The same applies to the need to clarify the framework for next year's activities so early that it is possible to make sound budgeting for next year. These needs can be understood, regardless of the formal position of the Sameting. There has been a working group in turn that has looked at different models that can be used, but no agreement has been reached between the Sameting and the Government in the consultations on the issue. Hopefully, a clarification of budgetary procedures will come soon, and it is hoped that this will meet the needs of greater predictability and some earlier clarifications for the budget work of the Alliance. Knowledge of the Sami community, and in particular knowledge of special Sami conditions, is an important decision-making base for us as politicians. It is therefore important to continue the work on Sami statistics. I am pleased that the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church will contribute to ensuring further funding of this work. The majority of the Committee has also noted that the long-term objective of the Sameting is that the production of Sami related statistics becomes a firm and established activity. The proposal for new mineral law aroused great debate both in Finnmark and in Sami environments. It was also expressed in demanding consultations between the Government and the Sameting. The plenary session also ended with not being able to support the bill. I am therefore very pleased that, in its Declaration of Accession, the Co-decision Council clearly states that they will deal with the adopted law. Expressing it so explicitly and clearly is a responsible contribution to alleviating the differences between stakeholders in the implementation of the law. However, that said, there is reason to respect the considerations of the Sameting on the need for long-term local ring-effects and participation to ensure the preservation of Sami interests. The majority of the Committee has also indicated that this will be an important prerequisite for mineral activities. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of following up the Government's action plan on Sami languages. The plan was presented in May 2009 and has a working time of five years. Language is one of the factors — if not the most important — ensuring a culture. The Sami languages, especially lukewarm and southern Sami, are threatened, in the sense that they are spoken only by hundreds of people. The measures described in the action plan must be followed up and will be followed closely by me. With this I have, on behalf of the majority of the committee, the pleasure of recommending the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1475	The activities of the 2008 merger are what we are debating today, but this is also the annual debate that the Stortinget is coming back to on Norwegian common policies in practice. Some things have happened since 2008, including: it has been a merger choice. In that merger choice there was a significant change in relation to the previous one. Among other things, for the first time the Progress Party got representatives into the Sametinget – three representatives got the Progress Party into the Sametinget. They did so on a program that is essentially about the closure of the Sameting. So it's like a lot of co-workers have voted in the Progress Party, because you want to put the whole thing down. I think it's interesting to notice, and I think this hall should think a little bit about it. There are some very good reasons for that. In the Great Britain's association with common policies, some dramatic mistakes have been made through history. A Keyword is principlelessness. So you've been able to construct a system where people have different rights in a society based on ethnicity. So the big business has built a DNA democracy in Finnmark, and so far also in the whole country, but it is especially in Finnmark that this is of great importance. That is something I think – and the Progress Party sees as – totally incompatible with the principles of liberal democracy. Nevertheless, the Stortinget has stood for a policy of separating people according to blood background. Another key element of the policy pursued is historylessness. As a northerner – I have a family way back in Northern Norway – I can't see the artificial distinction you're talking about from a lot of representatives in this room, about two people, and that these are clear ethnic groups. First of all, there are actually three groups that have a long history in North Norway: there are Samis, women – or what should perhaps more correctly be called Norwegian-Finnish – and there are other Norwegians. There are people who have lived side by side and married across centuries. There are no clear ethnic dividing lines in North Norway. That is why the whole policy that has been pursued from this Chamber, from the Grand Duchy, becomes completely meaningless. But there might be some reasons why it's been like this; maybe there's things back in history, the Alta fight and all of this. Maybe it's a little bit of a distance. I note that it is more than 2,000 km from Stortinget to Karasjok. Maybe that's what we see in this area. The Committee was recently travelling in Finland, and in Finland, and was given a special look at common policies. One of the things that I think many people were surprised about was the conflicts that are now present in Finnmark. For me, and for the Advance Party, this is nothing new. It is something that has happened because one has created a policy – with all good intentions – but one has created a policy that distinguishes between people living in North Norway, after constructed ethnic dividing lines. Sometimes it is permissible to think about and note that you may have made a mistake. Maybe it was wrong to create the Sameting where choice depends on the right DNA. Maybe it was an error to create FeFo, where, in practice, joint privileges are granted. Perhaps there is a mistake in the way we handle the entire reindeer management and all the strong rights that lie there. Maybe it's time the Storting took lessons and that maybe, hopefully, this is the last period we're dealing with an annual report from Sametinget, just because we put it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1492	Now we're in March 2010, and we're going to deal with the Sameting Annual Report for 2008. Two weeks ago, the Committee in Sametinget met the debate on the Annual Report for 2009. Both the Government and the Stortinget should make an effort to get the annual report for treatment some time before. I also notice that the Government’s review of the annual report of the Company refers to actions undertaken in May 2009, i.e. the language action plan, five months after the period we are currently considering. Enough about it, you don't have to be so formal when you're about to deal with an annual report, and I realized at Per-Willy Amundsen that he put up for the big joint political debate, where the history of the Progress Party was now going to be echoed in the Stortinget. I think I'm going to disappoint Per-Willy Amundsen by saying that the Progress Party is quite isolated in its view of the Sami people, and reminds me that the Basic Law § 110a actually equates Sami and Norwegian, so that's what the Advance Party is trying to write about the story, I think he's standing alone about. I also remind you that Right e.g. wanting to shut down the county council and the county council, but we're making choices and making good choices at the county council, so it's not unique that the Progress Party has got representatives into the Sameting. I think it's great. I also noticed when we were in the Sameting, that the representatives who were there from the Progress Party thought they had been received in an excellent way and had slipped into the community – and that seems positive. The merger probably does not have such a big problem that Stortinget handles the annual report for so long after it was up to date, but it is a little bit less satisfactory. In its consultations, the Federation and the Government have not been able to reach agreement on new budgetary procedures. This was the case rapporteur, and the Right supports the fact that this must be done and that both parties must now try to find a good solution to this. Also in the case of new mineral laws, there is disagreement. This was also an important issue when the Finnish law was dealt with, without any conclusions being drawn. It is now important to find solutions that can realise the many exciting and value-creating projects in Finnmark and other parts of the country and in areas where more value-creating activities are needed, while taking care of Sami interests, reindeer and other outreach industries in a way that everyone can live with. The whole thing, as we heard when we were up there, has a big focus on Sami languages. In particular, lulesamic and southern Sami are vulnerable languages, and considerable efforts are now being made to strengthen them. Here, it is important that the Government’s May 2009 action plan is followed up, while providing for decentralised and flexible language training schemes. I myself have visited Brecken School in the municipality of Røro, which teaches in southern Sami. I was impressed by the enthusiasm and creativity used to teach languages both on-site and interactive through distance learning. This is a vulnerable environment that is important to provide good working conditions. We also had the pleasure of visiting Sami University, which now has new, great premises in Kautokeino. On the right, it is important that the university now has the opportunity to develop as an independent institution that has Sameland as a working and admission area, where one places emphasis on Nordic cooperation, and that the government is increasingly seeking to get Finland and Sweden — and perhaps Russia — to fund the Sami university, so that we can get a Sami university, which already has students from the Nordic neighbouring countries, but which could also become more likely to become a Sami university for the whole of the North Calote. I think that's important. It would have been exciting to hear if the Council of State has any thoughts about how the Sami college is going to evolve further. There have been signs, for example: from Helga Pedersen, that they should join themselves with the high school in Finnland, which the Right would strongly warn against. The conspiracy has held elections and formed itself, new parties have come in, and many new young representatives are now putting their mark on the important work being done by Sametinget. But we'll get back to this, hopefully in less than a year, when we discuss the Annual Report for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1511	I would like to begin by saying that I fully agree with the representative Trond Helleland that it must be an objective, both from the government side and from the Stortinget side, to be able to deal with the 2009 Annual Report several times faster than we have been able to achieve. Much of this is because there were elections last year, but it is clear that if we all make an extra effort, this debate will also become more up-to-date. I think we're going to work to do that. After being away from the same policy area during the previous ageing period, I think it is very good to be back and see how some of the issues that were discussed very strongly between 2001 and 2005 have now come into being to a much greater extent. A lot has happened in the same policy area over the last few years. One of those things was the Finnmark property, another was the Sami college, which is a magnificent building where it lies and looks across the whole of Kautokeino and acts as a collection site and a power centre, not only for the Northern Sami part, but also for the entire North Calote. It was very exciting to see how this has evolved over the years. Something else I want to grips with is exactly what several others have been dealing with, namely the position of lulesamic and southern Sami. When we were visiting Finnmark, we were at a language seminar. I was surprised, I must admit, how bad it was for the lulesamic and the southern Sami language. It was an alarm clock for me. I was also stunned by one thing, and it was that when debates are conducted in the Sameting, interpretation is not carried out into lulesamic and southern Sami. There's something that I think it would make sense if the government went into dialogue with the Sameting about, that the Sameting took a discussion around it. Because it is clear that there must be a development that strengthens lulesamian and southern Sami, it must also be possible to speak those languages in the Sami Parliament. From my point of view, it would certainly be an advantage. Another thing that's very easy to notice when you travel in Finnmark is that there's a lot of conflicts here. We've been aware of that. It's not right, as Per-Willy Amundsen says, that this is something that we're not aware of. We'll read about this. It's very easy to notice that there's a lot of conflict going on here. In most of the lots, there are discussions where there are lines of division in terms of part of the Sámi questions. This may be particularly linked to the reindeer management and to what goes on the Finnmark property. I believe that what is important, and which is also discussed in the Sametinget, is that the whole thing is more responsible for issues related to reindeer management. The background for this is: when you see that so many conflicts are linked to it, while there is something that the Sami Parliament does not take up and discuss in full, it is strange that there is not going to be a central issue in the Sameeting. How this is to be done, I think it's quite natural for the Sameting to decide for itself. But that discussion makes sense. It is also very exciting if Finnmark’s property can develop to a greater extent in order to contribute to the economic development of the whole of Finnmark. We think that will be positive for Finnmark's people, both for those who are Sami and for those who are not Sami. In the case of Sámi higher education, the Government now has a review of this, to see how to strengthen Sámi education. It is natural to come back to all the questions relating to the Sami college, after that investigation has been carried out. That investigation also sees Sami college very positively and wants to participate actively in that process. I think it's absolutely necessary to make sure to strengthen the Sami as a force center. When it comes to history, there's one thing that's important to say. If there is someone who is historyless in his talk of common politics, it is the Progress Party. The Per-Willy Amundsen report mentions nothing about research policy. There's no mention of how the Sami language has been completely overrun over the last century, there's nothing to mention that language is actually very important. Both in terms of identity and culture, it is extremely important to make sure that the language is strengthened. It is not possible to see differences between people in Finnmark, whether they have Sami blood or not, but it is quite possible to hear differences between Sami and Norwegian when spoken. We also expect the Per-Willy Amundsen Progress Party to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1528	The Municipal and Administrative Committee was recently on tour to Finnmark, where we, among others, visited the Sametinget. For me, it was a useful introduction, not only in general local and northern policies, but also in indigenous policies and the challenges facing each other. As a representative of the South Tribe Team, I know best about the challenges facing the Southern Sami population. They include: related to language training and learning material issues. Südsamen is a minority in the minority. They live very widely — often a few in each municipality — with the result that many schools have very few students, perhaps only one or two who are to be trained in southern Sami. It goes without saying that the resource needs per person. The student then becomes very large. Much of the Southern Sami language training and the revitalisation of the language are based on idealism and on pure hard work. I'm concerned that the Sameting takes this into account, and that they're facilitating that lulesamic and southern Sami are also getting their language revitalization. Here I believe the Sameting must go ahead with a good example, and through their own priorities show that they take the conservation and development of southern Sami and lulesamic seriously. As has been said before today, the Sameting is missing per. Today, interpretation in these languages – even there. Neither in Sametinget can the midterms speak their own language. The cleaning industry in Trøndelag, like the reindeer industry in Finnland and elsewhere in the country, is facing a tough everyday situation in the area of predatory issues. This gives rise to difficult conditions for the industry and makes industrial development difficult in relation to reindeer management. This challenge shares the Sami population with District Norway elsewhere. It's urgent for both together and for others to change this. They warned the changes in predatory policies in the Government Platform, Soria Moria II, must be shown in practical policies. There is a real danger that the reindeer industry in many areas will be wiped out unless the number of predators is reduced. Same people work partly across borders, and much is happening internationally in relation to the rights of the indigenous population. Negotiations on a common Nordic Convention are held, inter alia: on the stairs. It shall coordinate rights and facilitate interaction between partners from different countries across borders. I hope that Stortinget, like Sametinget, will be kept continuously informed, so that we will be able to assess the changes in Norwegian legal status that this might entail. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that we are actually dealing with the Annual Report on the Company's business for 2008 and that after the Sametinge itself has adopted the Annual Report for 2009. I hope we can get the processing time for such messages down, so that the Storting does not, as now, receive the annual report for treatment over a year later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1543	So, as we've made a point now, we're dealing with the annual report for Sameting's operations for 2008. I agree with those who have said that we must try to make it so that we are somewhat more up-to-date. It is the 2009 Annual Report that would be interesting for the Stortinget to discuss now in 2010. It has to be possible to do something about it. We have an indigenous people in Norway, and it's together. Same ones come from what are now four countries: Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. Norway is the country which has ratified ILO Convention No. 169, confirming the right of indigenous peoples to preserve and further develop their own culture, and the obligation of authorities to take measures to support this work. The Christian People's Party will be involved in securing the rights of all together to their own language, culture and social life, as enshrined in international conventions. It must be built up under the diversity of the Sami community. Common policies require follow-up at municipal, county and national level. The merger is a democratically elected body of the Sami population and must therefore be the Government’s leading pre-missive provider on Sami issues. The specific nature of the joint must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. Many challenges lie at the intersection of Sami industrial interests, general industrial development, the use of natural resources and land management in Sami settlement areas. Central authorities have a separate responsibility for the preservation and further development of Sami culture. The policy of assimilation, which was pursued from the 1800s onwards, was to a great extent detrimental to the Sami language and its reputation. Lack of knowledge of Sami relations contributes to creating prejudices. A lot of Sames have met with shell words and bullying because they're common or have Sami backgrounds. This is a disgrace in our common history. Language is a very important part of culture. It is therefore important that the Sami language be preserved and continued. Sami is not just Sami either. There are a total of ten main dialects or languages in this group, and a number of subdialects. Children's Ombudsman Reidar Hjermann wrote in a chronicle in Nordlys on 6 February 2009 that one of the biggest challenges facing Sami children today is in school. Among other things, he said: that, to put it mildly, their training situation is worrying, with both the lack of teaching materials in their own language, the lack of teachers to learn away, and the lack of instructors to provide room for a flexible schedule. The child ombudsman believes that Sami children do not get what they are entitled to, namely a good Sami language training. This impression is also confirmed, inter alia. in the very interesting master task of Elin Anita Sivertsen on the identity of young partners. She writes that for some people learning Sami has been a struggle where the young person himself, or the family, has had to investigate and demand the right to learn Sami. Studies on Sami languages carried out in the Sameting in 2000, 2004 and 2008 as well as the evaluation of the 2007 Sameting Language Code have revealed that most public bodies covered by the Sameting Language Code do not fully comply with the requirements of the Law in relation to the right to use Sami in contact with public bodies in the Sami language management area. In other words, we have a job to do here. The Government presented the Sami language action plan in May 2009. It is developed in dialogue with the Sameting and shall have an effective duration of five years. I expect the Government to follow closely the plan, so that this really provides the basis for a stronger effort for the Sami languages in different areas of society, in particular in the fields of education, education, public service and care, as well as the use and visibility of Sami in public contexts. In the end, I just want to say that I hope that the three elected representatives of the Progress Party in the Sameting will find the tasks that the Sameting will take on, so interesting that they do not have a single agenda, namely to put down the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1564	The Law provides that the annual report of the Sameting is to be transmitted to the Government and submitted to the Storting every year. I noticed that several representatives have pointed out that it has been a long time since 2008. I just remind you that the message was submitted from the Government on 12 June 2009. I will of course take it with me that we will make a greater contribution to progress in the matter, but it is also important for us to involve the departments in the follow-up to the Sameting Annual Report. As many have said here, it is important to remember that together is a recognised indigenous people in Norway, and special legal standards have been developed internationally to ensure that indigenous peoples' lives and culture are maintained and developed. I am pleased that Norway is behind the international obligations, and that is a central part of the government's common policy. The examination of this Annual Communication here today shows that there is a broad consensus in the view on Sami issues, and that an almost overall committee – with the exception of the Progress Party – is united on the few comments that have been made in the case. So let me comment on some of the questions that have been raised. It appears from the Opinion that the majority of the Committee has taken note of the lack of agreement on the new budgetary procedures between the Government and the Sametinget, and that the Sametinget towards the Ministry has indicated the need for more time to assess the present draft and, where appropriate, propose alternative budgetary models. The majority point to the need for clarification of budgetary procedures between the Government and the Sameting. To this end, I would like to inform you that the Ministry is in regular dialogue with the Consetation on the matter and is now awaiting feedback on the outline of new budgetary procedures between the Government and the Sameting, which was submitted to the Sametinget in the autumn of 2008. The matter was last addressed by the Sametinget at the six-monthly consultation meeting just before the New Year. The merger wants the work on budgetary procedures to begin and will come back with a proposal for consultation procedures. The matter was also discussed with the Ministry of Finance in the annual meetings of the Sametinget, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church in February. Then I agree that a living Sami language is central to the maintenance of the Sami culture. If we lose the Sami languages, we lose an important part of our cultural heritage. The Sami languages are currently in a vulnerable position. This is particularly the case in areas outside the Sami language management area and in the Southern and Lulesamian areas. It is therefore important for the Government to facilitate the future use and interaction of the Sami languages. Against this background, in 2009, the Government promoted an action plan for Sami languages. The action plan is drawn up in dialogue with the Sameting. During the action plan period, the government will provide the basis for continued efforts for the Sami languages in different areas of society — in particular in the fields of training, education, public service and care, as well as the use and visibility of Sami in public contexts. A prerequisite for a safe future for the Sami languages is to promote the status of languages and to make established linguistic rights visible to users and authorities at different levels. The action plan has a working time of five years. Annual reporting will be made on the implementation of targets and actions in the Action Plan. The first report will come in 2010. On the basis of the issues raised in the 2007 evaluation of the Code of Languages of the Law and on the basis of the extension of the administrative scope of the Code of Languages of the Law to include both northern Sami, lulesamic and southern Sami languages, the Ministry, in cooperation with the departments concerned and the Sameting, has initiated work on reviewing the rules of the Law on Languages. I would also like to take with me what Trond Helleland said about the need to coordinate Nordic efforts at higher education level. I think that's a good idea, and I'll take it with me. It is also important that we have good knowledge when developing the policy area. That's why it's important to focus on having good data on the evolution of the population. There has been a great decline in the population in the Sami areas, and we have to take this seriously. I think it's important to be aware that the major challenges require us to facilitate the further renewal of Norwegian society. It also applies to the Sami areas. Then the debate I meet in the Sami areas – and in part also the debate in this room – testifies that there is a need for more information on Sami issues, and that is something I want to take the initiative to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1594	It then opens up for a cord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1597	I would like to take up the thread on which the representative Heikki Holmås was in, namely that in the Sametinget there is no interpretation of lulesamian and southern Sami. Like Heikki Holmås, I was also very surprised by that. When we know at the same time that lulesamian and southern Sami have major challenges, I will challenge the Council of State to see if she can also help us put this in place in the Sameting. So, in consultation with the Conseil, will the Council of State look into whether it is possible to get to it quite quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1603	I want to say that in the same way as the committee, I have also been to the Sametinget and visited the Sami areas quite recently, and I was also surprised that there was only interpretation in northern Sami in Sametinget, and I had a dialogue with the joint president about it. It's the whole thing that's responsible for organizing the whole thing's business, and I think it's possible, within the framework available to the whole thing, to have interpretation in Sami languages other than northern Sami. But what I see as a major challenge in the Sami areas is access to interpreters. That's why, in meeting with the Sami college, I have also focused on the need to get more and better interpreters so that we have enough interpreters to interpret in the Sametinget and to meet the need for interpreters beyond the Sameting business. We can follow it up in relation to the dialogue we have with the Sameting, and see what possibilities Sameeting sees within its framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1610	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1615	I must be allowed to say that I am provoked by the rhetorical Progress Party uses in connection with this debate on the activities of the Sameting. In my opinion, the representative Amundsen, through the use of rhetorical instruments, tries to draw the picture that Sami people in Norway have a particularly positive discrimination against other Norwegians. It is good that the Progress Party has the position that they do not recognise the reason for the Constitution § 110a that the State of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, and that the State thus has a responsibility to preserve and respect the culture of two peoples. What I don't think is so good is the attempt to present it as if Sam's rights unilaterally go at the expense of the Nordics' rights. I would challenge the Progress Party to specify in concrete terms what rights they are talking about. For me, this is primarily about taking care of the cultural, linguistic and other specificities of Sami. In fact, as several of the debaters have noted, these conditions have been systematically suppressed — even suppressed — by the Norwegian authorities over many years, and this has resulted in a need to try to repatriate the language, culture and other conditions. For the Progress Party, it is an argument that co-operatives are not the largest minority in Norway. For me, it shows that the party has missed a very central premise in democratic thinking – that it is not the size of the minority that is important, but that everyone has a right to respect for who they are. It follows from this that it is up to the majority – i.e. us – to have a separate responsibility in relation to all minorities, no matter how many they are. That is the significant difference between democracy and majority dictatorship. The Progress Party is trying to present it as if the democratic system we have with a merger will in future also be a basis for other groups, especially in the Oslo area, as their comment states, to claim similar rights. It is a claim that falls on its own unfairness, all the time the reason for the Sameting and § 110a is a recognition that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two people. It is well clear that the state of Norway was established before the 1970s, when the immigration of the groups to which I assume the Progress Party refers started. In this way, I believe there is little chance that they will be able to claim their own ‘samting’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1636	As a finnmarking, it's nice to sit and listen to the debate, and it's great to hear that a committee so important has had a long journey in my own county. Then you've kind of seen some of the variation up there, you've seen the most diverse county we've ever seen – different Finnmark district – and you've got a bit of knowledge in different languages, cultures and probably eaten a lot of good food, during the visit there. So there's a little bit of the debate that I think is interesting. Very often, we mix things up when we debate Sami questions. Be aware that Sami issues are about Sami culture, history and language, while reindeer operations have asked for permission to be treated as an industry, and have therefore asked themselves not to go under and be managed by Sametinget. They're going to be treated as an equivalent industry to other industries up there. So we're going to take care of ourselves to put too much cultural strain on the reindeer, because it's not certain that the reindeer industry will survive with it. So to Holmås and the discussion around FeFo. There I also have to ask the Storting to go with my own hand. Let the Finnmarks try to manage the values resulting from the Finnmark property. There we have the opportunity to have a good dialogue between the Sameting and the County Council. Maybe we'll fix that problem ourselves. What a strong back Finnmark states could stand with afterwards, if the Finnmarks themselves had got together and agreed on how to manage the values – created good things out of it! I can unfortunately not avoid commenting on the Progress Party and their rhetoric. So here we're going to have the expression "reconstructed ethnic differences." With respect to report, I stunned when I sat down and watched TV. Did we get an example here of reconstructed intelligence? So it's obvious that there's no way to say that there are no ethnic differences when you look at the Finnmark population. It's out of the discussion. Then I have to add that if that's how the Progress Party is so seriously concerned about the conflict lines that are in Finnmark County, and about the conflicts that rage up there, then it's quite possible for them to pour oil on the water. It's like these discussions come up at regular intervals – preferably when it's election year – and, most importantly, in the torch, the Progress Party. If you're interested in doing something about this, it's the Progress Party that has the largest space for action – simple and simple. Now I want to give the Progress Party a little bit of the tool they can use in these debates to mitigate the conflicts they're so worried about. The first tool is called respect, and that's respect for diversity. If you add it as a core value, you're going to get a lot, a lot further when you're going to help us in Finnmark to live together. The next is respect for the debate. It's actually also the way to have respect for the counter-debateants so that you let all the voices go. With respect for all the pleasant debates I have had with the Progress Party – you have a piece to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1653	Now I am very pleased that it is not the representative of Bakke Jensen who defines what should be allowed, and what should not be allowed in the public vocabulary. Then I think this debate had become relatively poor. The problem is that the Progress Party has been the only party that has dared to address the issues we are seeing, especially in the Bakke Jensen County representative. We have no problem taking that debate, but we do it, of course, on a respectful and proper basis. It's a matter of course in every context. But assigning others the kind of characteristics that I feel Bakke Jensen is doing, he should stick too well to. I am not commenting on the last article any more. What was kind of interesting was what the representative Sivertsen came with. He talked about how important it is to take care of Sami language and Sami culture. I fully agree with Mr Sivertsen. That is precisely what is at the root of the common policy. But we do not need anything, of course, in order to preserve Sami language and Sami culture. We do not need to create anything as special as the Finnmark property in order to preserve Sami language and Sami culture. That's what's the jumping point. So they have designed some so-called democratic bodies, such as the Sameeting, which are ethnically based, ethnically composed, and which give clear privileges to the community. It's absolutely beyond question. So it's your blood that determines your vote. It's a DNA democracy. The same applies to the composition of the Finnmark property. There's also ethnically biased distribution, which means that one group in society gets more power, and then you get it, of course, at the expense of other groups in society. But this is not about language and culture; it's about the Stortinget's failure in its common policy. So it wasn't just two groups that lived in Finnmark on the day you drew the boundaries – in 1751 it was? There were actually three groups. It should not be forgotten that those referred to in some context as women – others called them Norwegian-Finnish – were also present when those borders were drawn up. So I think there's more that should relate to the history description in a slightly more correct way. So it's also like this, and that's my appeal point, that no one is proud of the research process that happened when it happened together. But a new wrong can't make up for an old wrong either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1664	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1682	==References== 34,000 farms are empty in Norway today, while surveys show that about 400,000 people could be interested in taking over these and, not least, using them. As former municipal and county politicians – even though some years ago – I was often involved in these kinds of things, where there was a seller and a buyer; a seller who, for one or more reasons, wanted to sell his property to someone who would like to live and further develop this property. They agreed on the price, the acquisition date, what should be included in the deal, that the seller would possibly have to live there for a while, or get other rights for a certain period – i.e. that everything was settled between the seller and the purchaser. Often the papers were written by e.g. a lawyer, so that everything was orderly and thoughtful. Then the case came to the municipality for political treatment with a recommendation from the councillor and often with a refusal, or a partial refusal, because for example. the price was too high in relation to the return on the farm or that some of the property would be sold as additional land to one or more neighbours. This often led to a political majority in favour of the position of the councillor, and it resulted in that there was no trade, because the seller did not want to sell the farm at an too low amount. After all, this was a work of life that sometimes several generations had built up. It could also be that the trade did not happen because the buyer wanted to buy the entire farm and not only part of it, or it could be too short for the buyer to move to the property. So it often ended up with the seller, i.e. owner, kept the farm, leased away the land and had logging in the forest when it was desirable. But what's bad is that the building mass, both housing and operating buildings, was only used occasionally, and the decay began. The same can be said about the cultural landscape both in and around the tuna, spreading to the entire property. Thus begins the evaporation of our districts. No new takeover. The years go by, and by the time of death some years later, the maturity has come too far. No one wants to take over a drop-out property, and the farm is sold as extra land to the neighbor. In the Rendalen municipality of Hedmark County, the average age is 48 years, while in Jären is 35 years. This says something about if you are to have growth, a rule and law must follow along in time. If you want to work not only for a few farmers, but also for electricians, carpenters, people in shops, health professionals, people in good associations and sports, we have to say yes, that is, have a yes mentality, even if some of those who take over a farm don't live there all the time or not just run with what the farm has produced all the years. Many people probably read in the Bondebladet a while ago about him who got NOK 3000 in a fine every day because he was running with lofting inside the barn. As I understood it, this was a good enough way of life for him, but the authorities said no. Unfortunately, he is not the only one who gets no, when you want to expand your income. Another example is from my municipality. A small user wanted to lay out a small part of the property to seven cottages. He had potential buyers, and he got permission from the municipality, but only to five plots. Then there was nothing of it, for his income by selling these plots was in empty number. 6 and empty number 7th@item: inlistbox The other covered the costs of reprocessing and selling costs. I can frame up many situations where people want to buy empty farms, but they want to some extent to use them in a slightly different way than before. It would create the growth that the districts need. It would create quality of life, and not least it would create light in the windows. It would also create optimism in those who already live there. It's often the case that if the neighbor picks up, builds something new, infects it. Maybe you don't do that much, but something you want to do. This would again have created an increase in value that both the owner and his descendants would have benefited from, and not least society in general. It would also do a lot for the tourists, and what we want to show them. No one would be proud to show up an area or a building where many of the 34 000 empty farms are standing. In addition to the 34 000 empty farms, we have a sad development in the number of farms being run. In the last four years, while the Central Party has had the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and we have had the same government as now, there have been 4,419 fewer farms. I think it has a clear connection with the empty farms. When it does not pay to clean up buildings and properties because, among other things, it does. are maximum selling prices, give up, or at best, keep them at the same level. Some opponents – and perhaps the vast majority – claim that with the policies of the Progress Party, many of these farms would be bought up by rich people and used only for resorts. Yes, it may be true that some of them would have been, but there would have been light in the windows in parts of the year, the buildings would have been taken care of, cleaned up and expanded. It would create work and positive ring-effects, and the earth would be led away to the neighbor, so that he had his use strengthened – a win-win situation for everyone. The services offered in the village would have flourished, and that would have served everyone. It has been said by current and former governments that agriculture should be the backbone of the rural settlement. That was perhaps the case before, but that spine is today very fragile and little tolerable. I think the dawning peasant revolt we see today, not only is political trouble in front of an agricultural settlement, but something more serious. In order to save the countryside and agriculture, we need to think again. Laws, regulations, spatial plans, control plans, etc. must be changed to the level of the day, and not least to be seen in the future. The current owner of a farm, whether it is a small farm or a large farm, must have the right of access back. The right of disposal must be transferred to the owner. There is no one who voluntarily wants to give up the farm for a ridiculously small sum, when it has a completely different value. Then the owner sits on it until there are changes, and hopes that it will be in his time. The optimism of agriculture must return. The number of decks of good food soils needs to be strengthened, as was the case in the last two years with bourgeois rule, before the Stoltenberg government took over. For the last four years we have lost approx. 141,000 dean. Anyone who doesn't realize that something has to do with today's agricultural policy, laws, regulations and regulations in every way, will, as I see it, be involved in raging the districts at a fast pace. Reconciliation must take place, so that optimism and quality of life return. It is more important to live in the living quarters than to have the penitentiary we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1712	About one fifth of the houses on Norwegian farms are not used for housing. Some are empty; other houses are used as cabins or recreational dwellings. The discussion on how empty farms should be used in Norway is an important debate. It is about more than the right of disposition of the landowner, namely how to maintain and create living settlements. It is important for urban and country development, and it requires continuous efforts from different actors. I therefore thank you for the interpellation that allows me to draw attention to this issue. Fortunately, many today want to participate in the traditions and living environment of the countryside. Surveys show that almost 400,000 people can expect to buy a small use. Many people want to buy a farm to live there, while others want to use it as a cabin or a leisure home. Many people want something more or nothing than the current market can offer evenly over. They want what we can call a lifestyle property, which is more than an empty but less than a farm. They want a flower meadow and a pastry. Attitudes such as this should be taken into account in policy-making and require a nuance of policy thinking. We know that the size and yield possibilities of agricultural properties vary, and that smaller properties can be suitable for such lifestyles. For more resource-intensive agricultural properties, the basis for agricultural production is more crucial. For such properties, I feel that there is a broad acceptance that the owner must be subject to certain regulations and obligations. Such properties, which are often entitled to public transfers, which depend on operation, must be managed in such a way as to restore something to the community in terms of food production, industrial development, cultural landscapes, housing and living areas. I do not share the confidence of the representative of Bredvold that the legislation is the reason why farming is not inhabited. I believe, on the contrary, that if the regulations were to be removed, it would be possible for many more farms than today to be used as leisure property, and only as leisure property. In my opinion, there may be many reasons why properties are empty. On the other hand, there is water retention – the owners do not see the possibility of selling, and potential buyers do not think it is possible to get the purchase. On the one hand, there are family, relatives, relationships, deferred inheritance settlements, for example, and on the other hand, I think there is a lack of organization and planning. Municipalities do not see and develop the potential of many smaller properties in a lifestyle market. I think a lot can be done with more attention and information on this issue. The policy objective must be to facilitate the use of the resources of the empty dwellings in order to ensure their settlement in vulnerable communities. In my opinion, this is about several things: if the owner does not use the farm for housing or nutrition himself, we should stimulate the sale of the farm or the dwelling. In addition, those who want to live in the house must have the real opportunity to buy, they must not compete at price with owners who want to use the property for purely leisure purposes. In addition, in order to ensure long-term settlement, employment must be provided or created for those who are to live in the houses. In 2008, it was sold approximately. 2,300 properties with more than 5 covered agricultural land or 25 covered forest. About half of these properties were below the current limits of dwelling and price control. Turnover figures show that, in the current legislation, both life-style property and agricultural property are available. It is an important task to make use of this option in a more targeted way. Results can only be achieved through joint efforts by both community and community communities, and efforts must be based on a diversity of instruments. The effects of the efforts must be seen in a long-term perspective. Many municipalities and counties are making a solid effort today. We must be concerned with practical solutions that facilitate the success of the work they do. Several regions and municipalities have launched targeted project work to ensure that delocalised use is permanently settled. I have noticed in particular that some projects have focused on what can be called ‘building life brokers’ – people and websites who actively visit passive owners with unoccupied farms and who communicate with people who want to buy farms. In practice, this has proved to be a fruitful approach. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has supported several such projects. An example is the project ‘Light in all glass’, which is a cooperation project between municipalities in Buskerud. The project has a broad political base, including: in the county. The aim of the project was to settle 100 more uses in five years from 2007. After three years, at the beginning of 2010, 40 uses were sold and 19 rentals for housing, and they had 150 stakeholders who wanted to take over. This shows that it is useful to make targeted efforts. As I said, this benefits because the effort is focused. I think it should be focused on this type of action to a greater extent than what is being done today. Together with the targeted use of today's legislation, this may lead to those who want to do so being able to obtain a dwelling without being competed with by people who want to buy a cabin.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1733	I thank the Council of State for the contribution, and I hear that the Council of State has the same goal as we all have, that as many as 34 000 farms we have that are empty are to be inhabited. If you do a little math, let's say that all of these are sold, of course they don't, but let's say, and it moves three people to each of these farms, so it's 100,000 people moving from a center into the districts. There are quite a few people, and it is clear that this will create quality of life, not only for those who move out, but also for those who are already there. I know some of these measures, and there are also many municipalities, at least relatively many, trying to get foreign residents. Among other things, there are many who travel to the Netherlands, to trade fairs there, and get Dutch people here, and for example. in my municipality it has been positive. But it's so small, and then we might have to have targeted measures, as the Council of State says. I haven't really seen so much of the targeted actions. So the Council of State said that one should ‘stimulate’ for sale. When a central government council and a socialist government say that one should stimulate sales, it scorches a little in my head: what does the word'stimulators' mean? Is it by a little coercion, or is there any other thing that's going on? I hope that the Council of State will come back to what the Council of State and the Government put in the word'stimulators'. Otherwise, as I said, it must be easier to reintroduce a farm. I mentioned the example with him who was driving with the lofting. He was not allowed to do that, NOK 3000 in fine every single day, and it goes without saying that then the authorities make it difficult for people who want to live on a farm and operate with other types of nutrition, possibly in addition to the industry that has been there before. So I would also like to hear a little more — if the Council of State would like to say something more about it — about how the Council of State will help to make it easier to operate other than milk production, grain production or grass production, for example. lofting, etc. Another example might be that there is more to bet on farm tourism. Farm tourism is in the shot, but then the villages we show can't have 34 000 farms that are empty. I also think it's important that we all share in this, because, as I say, if the neighbor makes something positive, builds on, paints, cultivates, then it spreads optimism, and the others will also be involved in this. So I think there's a lot we can do and contribute to here all, but it has to be voluntary, and not by coercion and the regulations that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1746	I believe that the aim of the representative of Bredvold for more activity in the countryside – the exploitation of resources that exist there – is shared by us. However, there is probably some difference in attitude about how to achieve the objectives. And to a large extent, the representatives of the Progress Party – also the representative of Bredvold – talk about replacing Community solutions with the individual’s freedom to decide for themselves – that is, that one should remove laws and rules, that one should regulate and “release the peasant free”, which is a slogan that the Progress Party sometimes uses. In my view, freedom of choice, to use that term, is a valuable starting point. But that's not enough. Social considerations are important in deciding how to exploit property resources in this country. This is a consideration that one cannot expect the owners to take for themselves. Property law, referred to in the first article of the Bredvold representative, allows balances to be made where both the interests of the owner and the interests of society have a central place. And I mean the law we have today, it keeps this balance in a good way. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is a continuous process to ensure that the law is adapted to the challenges of our time. Last year, the Stortinget adopted major legislative changes, including: in such a way that fewer properties were subject to the obligation of concession, dwelling and immovable property. In addition, housing rules were simplified so that they have become better tools for municipalities in order to ensure housing on farm. The amendments were adopted with the support of a large majority in the Grand Duchy. In addition to this, I sent for approx. a month ago, a new circular containing changes in price control under the concession law. I have decided that price control should be avoided if the purchase price for built-up agricultural property is less than NOK 1500000. Thus, the lower limit of when price controls are to be carried out has increased to twice that. This means that smaller properties, where the housing function is more prominent than the economic aspect, can be priced more precisely on the market. This allows several small properties to be sold. It is thus based on the idea that some properties can be offered in a larger market where the desire for a lifestyle property can also be cared for – while other properties with a greater resource base are reserved for those who want to have their profession – and activity – in agriculture. These changes are not based on light-winded solutions where community concerns are absent. However, in my opinion, together with a deliberate use of the rules in the municipalities and active local community brokerage, they can contribute to the resettlement of empty farms. I trust that the municipalities are aware of this, and that it must be worked purposely over time to achieve such results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1759	I would like to begin by commending the fact that there has been an interpellation about empty use of the garden. But I would argue that so far this debate shows very well the difference between the light solution of the Progress Party, where there is a one-sided focus on the right of the landowner, and the wholeness approach of the Government, for the benefit of the community. The party of progress will replace the values of the community and the big community with the individual's right to decide for itself what gives the best gain for the individual. According to my opinion, the representative Bredvold and the Advance Party are coming with the wrong medicine in the closure and removal debate. Agricultural property laws make it possible to make decisions where both owners’ interests and societal concerns have a central place. This is more than the basic owner's right of disposition – that is to keep up with and create living settlements. The big question is, how do we really want our country to look like? The Labour Party agrees with the Minister of Agriculture that the political objective must be to facilitate the exploitation and security of settlement. This represents an unused resource for empty dwellings. When the owner himself does not use the garden for nourishment and housing, I agree that we should stimulate to the hall. Then I'd like to give the representative Bredvold the right thing to do, because it probably has our rights too little to focus on the small agricultural estates. If the garden is of a certain size, we can't put ourselves in the situation that the garden goes to leisure property and is made fallow, when someone wants to take over and drive it. If we are to have living farms, food production, active horticulture and landscape care, we must have animals on pasture. This is the only way we can have open landscapes in the future, but it does not grow again with forests. There are open landscapes with living villages the tourists will see and experience in Norway. I can't do that to bring forward another aspect that is decisive to keep farmers who want to drive the use of the garden in the future too: it's that the farmers must have a return – a income – to live on. In addition, we know that the earth's population is increasing in the future, and then it must be totally wrong medicine to lead a policy that makes food soils fall. The Minister of Agriculture adopted lifestyles as an outline — a little more than an empty but less than a gardening. I look forward to the further discussion on this in the agricultural messages, because the towns have a lot to offer as an appeal to many. The government has made changes. Last year, we made changes to our promises so that fewer ownership judgments will be covered by the obligation of concession, the obligation of professional secrecy and the right to vote. The Minister of Agriculture has proposed that a double the lower limit on when a price control is to be carried out. For smaller properties where the housing function means more than the economic aspect, it will be a price determination closer to the market value. But I certainly believe it is right that we should still exempt property with a greater resource base for market pricing, and give priority to those who want their profession in agriculture. In contrast to the Progress Party, I have confidence that local politicians will take decisions that are in the best interests of the community. There are tens of thousands of property that are not covered by the law today. If the representative Bredvold is entitled to the removal of the regulations, then these small farms would have gone away as hot quail bread. In my state, there are many generation shifts in eczema. Many uses also need large investments to meet new demands for, for example: disengagement. If the young people to take over are also required to compete for prizes with owners who are only to use the property for leisure purposes, not many will be left with financial muscles to continue their gardening. And what about the press areas, where very many agricultural properties will have an alternative value in the market far beyond what is actually the yield on the garden? We must have stable and active farmers, and then there must be income opportunities and social conditions that make possible both full-time and part-time agricultural settings. I then agreed that both the obligation to pay and price control are good tools on which we have to build. Finally, I will say: I have had a lot of advice around with farmers, both small and large farmers. I have not heard a call from the industry and the farmers themselves to release, as the Progress Party makes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1793	The Progress Party wants an agricultural policy from political governance to see the farmer as a self-employed person in line with other small business managers and small business owners in Norway. The farmer's task is to produce good, healthy and safe food and not to stand by the bureaucrats in the department. The Progress Party will facilitate food production rather than a system of community gardeners. Norwegian farmers need to have a simpler regulatory framework to deal with and to a greater extent to be released from public governance. The work on simplifying and modernising agriculture has stopped completely with the red-green government. The Progress Party believes that it is time for the government to show the power of action and give farmers the opportunity to decide for themselves how they will operate their own business. It must be a paradox that since 2000, there have been more than 20 000 fewer farmers in Norway, while production has increased. It must also be a paradox that it is with the Central Party in government that the closure of Norwegian agriculture reaches new heights, with almost 5,000 closures in a few years. The Progress Party is accused of being the biggest threat to Norwegian agriculture – as we have also heard in the previous speeches here – but we see in practice that the red-green government, with the centre party at the head, has almost started a liquidation and closure of Norwegian farmers throughout the country. The Progress Party is concerned that there must be a review and change of, among other things. the law of the land. Today it is only on paper that the farmer himself has to control his own land, for all farmers have noticed that in practice the bureaucracy of the agricultural authorities determines how the land should be used, and not the farmer himself. The Party will reintroduce the full freedom of ownership and production for food producers. The need for today's system of support schemes will then gradually be reduced, and we will also introduce a compensation scheme that supports those who are adversely affected by changes in agricultural policy for a period of time. We believe that conversion measures must be provided for those who want to produce new industries in agriculture and market their output. With the Progress Party in government, Norwegian farmers would receive a significant tax relief. The Progress Party will have a new agricultural policy that can underpin robust Norwegian food production across the country, which can offensively meet the ever-closer international competition and exploit export opportunities in a freer food trade. The Progress Party believes that the socialist agricultural governance system is an obstacle to developing food production in the direction of consumer considerations and away from bureaucratic constraints. The Progress Party is disappointed that the other parties in the Grand Duchy are not taking a settlement with an agricultural policy that has failed in relation to the objectives of housing, employment and income levels. The agricultural industry has undergone major upheavals in the last 20 years, and the number of production units is halved. Despite negative developments in low incomes and closures, production regulation policies and limited ownership continue to exist. The Progress Party considers it urgent to introduce a new agricultural policy through an entrepreneurship model, where private ownership and industrial freedom are central. We believe it is important to distinguish between nutrition and district policies and to ensure that the farmer regains freedom of nutrition through full ownership and the right to control his own production. Competition is the key prerequisite for a good entrepreneurship environment, and therefore the established mechanisms preventing this need to be phased out as soon as possible. There we've been and seen New Zealand, where it really goes, so it sucks, because they've deregulated what's deregulating by rules, they leave the industry in charge and also leave the market in charge. The Progress Party will give farmers the freedom of nutrition and soften the rigid production and market regulation that restricts competition today and that prevents the producer from developing production. We believe that freedom of establishment in all productions must be restored and will only maintain production restrictions that ensure the environment and good animal protection. We are proposing a reduction in subsidies on production and we are pointing out that greater freedom of activity will provide better income for food producers than the passive support schemes provide the basis for. As the only party in the budget, we have put forward proposals to add SEK 1.5 billion in conversion aid for agriculture, which will contribute to conversion and innovation. It is time for Norwegian agriculture to be innovative. The Party considers that the agricultural industry must find its place among the usual productions seeking a market in the most undistorted form of competition. Our policy provides for modern framework conditions that will create new opportunities for food production across the country. Those who have followed the development of agriculture in recent times have recorded that more and more farmers, along with Lundtägen, are now going public and criticising the Government's agricultural policy, and that must be said enough for the Minister. The agricultural industry is characterised by decline and pessimism due to its framework conditions. Farmers are dissatisfied with low income opportunities and low nutrition freedom, and consumers are dissatisfied with Europe's highest food prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1831	Interpellanten Bredvold addresses a very serious and important issue for debate – in fact, a major task for District Norway, which is now experiencing the burden of housing, suffocating the countryside. The interpellant refers to the Statistical Central Bureau, which can tell that from 2008 there were 34 000 agricultural properties empty. Much is known – and according to the 2009 Statistical Central Agency – there are already a lot more agricultural properties uninhabited as a direct result of a little flexible legislation. The issue is that it is urgent to take the necessary steps to make the law more flexible, so that it is easier to operate a farm or to live on an agricultural property. This is not done by tightening the legislation and refusing people to build union houses where there is no livestock farming. This kind of agricultural and rural policy has been shown to lead to depopulation. The right has repeatedly made proposals in Stortinget and has shown that Norwegian agriculture needs armstrokes and housing rather than detailed regulation and over-management. We believe that today's legislation with low prices and the government's tightening of the housing obligation is strenuous in Building Norway, which is experiencing increasing relocation with the result that the housing house becomes standing empty and mature instead of being placed on the market for sale. When almost 35,000 properties are empty, it's serious for Building Norway. It shows that it is high time to do something about the habit of living, which interferes heavily with the individual's ownership, while at the same time being a strong intervention in the individual's right to decide where to live. In fact, it is good district policy to lift the obligation to live. I have noticed with pleasure that the Minister of Agriculture and Food has raised the limit to twice as much as when price evaluation is required for the sale of agricultural property, and that the maximum housing value triples. I also register that the Council of State Breck stated the following: ‘The changes help us to have a simpler price evaluation legislation. I also know that many Norwegians have a dream of getting a use. The hope is that these changes will make it possible to increase the turnover of agricultural property so that more people can realize this dream.’ This is important, and it's a step in the right direction that we've been fighting for too long. But if we look at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's own argument and take it seriously, they should cancel the entire price control because it dampens sales. Unfortunately, we see that the instruments from the Government are far from being good enough, and that more and more agricultural properties are becoming standing empty and to maturity. If we see the whole country as a whole, it actually stands 21.8 pst. of the more than 175000 non-residential properties, according to figures from the Statistical Central Bureau as of 1 January 2009. It seems from my calculations that approx. 38 000 dwellings are empty and there are 4000 more than in 2008. You don't have to go far beyond the city center before living in a place where you feel like a bloody serious thing. Despite this situation, we see that the government with the central part of the driver's seat sticks its head in the sand and points to a tightening of the obligation to live and a tight price control. On 3 December 2009, a written question was raised to the Council of State concerning a case in which the County of West Agder decided to refuse the renunciation of the union residence in the municipality of Eigersund, where the owner's eldest son wanted to take over the farm, and the daughter wanted to take over the hospital. Such a solution would allow several of the owner's descendants to take over the properties and settle on the farm. There was no operation on the farm, and the land was rented out for a use that is approx. One mile from the farm. For information, other morgues in the same area that are significantly closer to the yard tunnel than this have been dissociated in the past – as the letter from the former central government council came up with an intensified practice in such cases. In his answer to the question from the representative Fleet, the Council of State, Breck, said the following: ‘I agree with the representative Fleet that today’s practice with regard to the dissociation of herds can give an unfair impression. I am therefore prepared to take a closer look at this in relation to the work on the review of the prohibition of sharing." I have a question for the Council of State that I hope he will answer: Will the Council of State keep the promise that was given to take a closer look at this? Then when will that happen? In what form will this important matter, which is so important to all those who are going to live and live in District Norway, come to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1863	It is an important issue that the representative of the Progress Party addresses, but we are probably not in agreement with the conclusion. I sent the interpellation to some of my friends who are farmers. There was little support for the concrete proposals made by Mr Bredvold among my fellow farmers. The government is busy pursuing a policy that ensures, as far as possible, the operation of cultivated land. We have just addressed a big message on climate policy and agriculture. Here, food security was an important element, and in that perspective, it's important to keep growing land in claim. For SV, it is important to take care of and further develop a comprehensive agriculture that uses important resources such as grazing and roughage. I've had contact with people working on the marketing of gardening. They point out that there are young people who want to buy agricultural property, and they have often lacked purchasing power. Release of the price and removal of the obligation to pay, as the interpellant wishes, will lead to an increase in price. It'll be an advantage for the buyers who want to acquire a leisure property. However, this low-buying group will push for less high-buying groups who want to invest in farm buildings and livestock, to continue agricultural production, to exploit the land and to keep the land in check. We who have grown up on a garden know that gardening is the life force of many previous generations. This often creates strong ties to the garden, and naturally it is enough to limit the marketing of gardening. The removal of price regulation and the removal of burden of burden of burden will change this to a small extent, only forcing young people who are genuinely interested in farming. Norwegian Farmers' Teams, Nature and Youth and Norwegian Construction Teams have set up the project ‘Get us to — young people into agriculture’. There is a concrete effort to get young people into agriculture. The project cooperates with several municipalities to increase access to agricultural property for people who are genuinely interested in operating the farm and will make the use of a living in whole or in part. In some municipalities, such projects work well. It's created greater sales of use, and it's created viable settlements not only with people who live there for periods, but with people who are genuinely pushing to keep the earth in claim. It's this thing that's the way to go, not to allow free prizes to push those who want to build a future and get a living on active gardening. We need those who want to be active in agriculture, and we're going to follow the intentions we agreed on when we're dealing with the big business message about climate and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1878	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for this opportunity to identify the differences between the agricultural and rural policies of the various parties. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good and complementary response. I have to say that I think it is touching that the Progress Party is concerned about empty farms, when the party would simultaneously reduce the agricultural agreement by DKK 7.5 billion in 2010. This corresponds to a cut in the remuneration of labour and equity in agriculture by about 70 pst. or DKK 129 000 per person. Annual work in 2010 — which would particularly affect young users and those who have invested in the industry with initial investment in recent years. The cut-off proposals in support, combined with the other proposals, would centralise agriculture in Norway around the largest cities after a bankruptcy wave, while it would not be possible to maintain any agriculture in the rest of the country. Nor does it help with conversion aid, as proposed by the Progress Party, if the basis for agriculture is gone. I think it's strange that the Progress Party is talking about strengthening landowners' right of disposal, when they want to liquidate agriculture at the same time and thus tear down the foundations of living settlements around the country. This is the truth about the policy of the Advance Party for agriculture, districts and landowners. With this background, one can rightly ask whether the concerns of the Progress Party over empty farms and landowners are pure crocodile tears rather than real concern. The Progress Party will also liquidate the law on turnover and market regulation in favour of a purely market-based trading system. Today’s market organisations help to provide stable and predictable prices for both farmers and consumers. Without regulation, prices will vary significantly, and neither the producer nor the consumer earns. Unstable prices, and hence revenues, will affect risk assessments and investment intentions. With regard to those farms that are currently not inhabited, I do not share the representative Bredvold's view that the legislation is the cause. I believe, on the contrary, that if the regulations were to be removed, it would be possible for many more farms to be used as leisure property than today. The centre party is quite clear that the political objective must be to facilitate the use of the resources represented by the empty dwellings to ensure the settlement of vulnerable communities. We are engaged in living settlements and facilitating positive development in the districts. If the owner himself does not use the farm for housing or industry, we believe in the Centerpartiet that we must stimulate the farm or the dwelling to be sold. In addition, those who want to live in the house must have a real opportunity to buy. They must not compete at prices with owners who will use the property for leisure purposes. In addition, in order to ensure long-term settlement, employment must be provided or created for those who are to live in the houses. The Council of State stated in its statement that several regions and municipalities have set in motion targeted project work in order to ensure the permanent settlement of displaced use. Together with the targeted use of today's legislation, it can lead to those who want to get a home to live in without being challenged by people who want to buy a cabin. It is important to look at what each party stands for in practical policy, and the proposals of the Progress Party in the 2010 State Budget clearly show what the party stands for in agricultural policy. It's worth noting for everyone. The centre party is not willing to rage the agriculture, as the Progress Party adds. We will continue to fight for a policy of living farmers and agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1906	The interpellant points to a very large paradox in the Norwegian agricultural and district policy: Over 22 p.m. the agricultural properties of residential buildings are empty, while there are a number of people who want to take over them, which is directly hindered by the complex and unnecessary legislation of agriculture. This applies to the law of no part, to the prohibition of division in the law of the land, to the law of state housing, and to the law of concession. The rural resource base needs to be exploited to a greater extent for the development of economic activity and for the settlement of people with no direct connection to primary industries. Local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. In short, agriculture must be given less designation, fewer forms and fewer and simpler guidelines. The left will have a more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are mainly a place to live. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the purchase of small-scale products in order to ensure housing and increased diversity in the countryside. A few years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture carried out a project dealing with different scenarios for future rural areas. The conclusion was that there are two scenarios that stand up strongly against each other. That's what's called for the headwinds, those who are opposed to change, those who always want things to be the way it is. It's the villagers that's going pretty bad with it. Farmers are generally left, and there are fewer and fewer of them. The second is the towns that dare think completely differently. Thinking differently in the countryside is very often about getting rid of different people – with different thoughts, different experiences and different education. Why do they come to the villages? It's to get what's the qualities of the countryside: space, opportunity to do something exciting, do something colorful and do something that's diverse. For that, there is a need for properties and dwellings. The buildings don't just need people living off their properties. They need someone who lives for their properties and brings with them exciting thoughts and industries as well. For this, more exciting properties are needed in the countryside, which new people want to live by and for in new ways. That's what this is all about. That is why today's legislation is a strong signal to Norwegian citizens that its land is for farmers. If you cancel this, you send a strong value signal – that we want different people who want to live in a different and more colorful and exciting way. For the Left, the main objective of agricultural and rural policy is to provide a basis for increased value creation and quality of life based on the sustainable management of agricultural and rural resources. If we are to succeed in this, the answer is not yesterday's mindset, yesterday's solutions or yesterday's legislation. Instead of restricting living conditions, we must have an active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are essentially a place to live. Therefore, it must be much easier to buy the vast majority of the 32,000 small users who are currently empty – mainly because of a misguided policy. Finally, I would like to commend the interpellant for addressing this important topic. I know myself too well about this problem. We might have to wait for a government change in order to get a change in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1930	I thank you for participating in the debate, and I thank you for the praise I have received. I think we all think this is an important debate. There are some differences, and the biggest difference is perhaps between the Center Party and the Advance Party. But we have to remember – especially for the Centre Party – that in four years, there have been 4,419 fewer farms and 141 000 less crops. There are not 34 000 empty, unoccupied farms, as I mentioned – it is even worse, unfortunately. It has session in this time. The pay gap between a farmer and e.g. An industrial worker has not improved, and if you read some newspapers today, you will see that it is also not certain that agricultural production coming to spring will help to improve the situation. Those who grew up on a farm – there are more than one in this room who grew up on a farm – all know about this. We know that giving away a work of life – whether it comes from grandparents, parents or yourself – is not just about crowns and ears. It's about freedom to sell and transfer the farm to the person you think and think is the best fit for it, and that will preserve the traditions, the culture and the opportunities that exist on a farm today. The possibilities that exist on a farm today are completely different from those that were for a few years ago, and then we have to give the youth the opportunity to do this. Those who have followed in acquisitions will see that it is not always the noble boy or the noble girl – that is, the oldest boy or the oldest girl – who takes over today, as it was in the past. There's a reason for that, and I think the sitting government and the sitting state council should think about that. Why is it not always so given to take over a farm, as it is today? Otherwise, the Progress Party got criticism from the Center Party – subject to my right memory – so that we do not have faith in the community and local politicians. That's exactly what the Progress Party has. Who was it like that? closed the county agricultural department? It's gone. Who is it like this? would like to see predatory policies added to a level and as close as possible to local politicians, because they know the problems best? This is how we can go into many themes on how to take care of Norwegian agriculture. I have still not received an answer to what is being put into ‘stimulators’ for sale. Is it coercive, or is there any other possibility? I would particularly like to call on the Centre Party to look at the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. It's not just about NOK 7.5 billion to the minus. It's about giving conversion opportunities. It's about taxes, taxes, freedom, right of access, etc., to be able to use the farm for what each individual wants. There's a lot of possibilities besides just running with cereals and potatoes, like we do on the Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1943	Initially, in my closing post, I would like to stress that, in my opinion, the policy of free movement of workers is the greatest threat to Norwegian agriculture – and to agriculture throughout the country. The representative, Mr Tåldal, underlined full freedom of production, full freedom of establishment and the removal of import restrictions, which are probably also in the wake of a possible party regime. It is a medicine for the depopulation of large parts of the Norwegian countryside — and thus for large parts of Norwegian food production — and it will not least destroy the Norwegian food industry, which is one of the largest we have. The opposition calls for legislative changes. I believe that the laws, with the changes that were adopted last year, provide a good starting point for the policy that I have outlined today. I also perceive that I have a lot of people with me in it. We have recently held regional conferences in the context of the new big business message on agriculture and food policy, and there is no one who takes up the points of view of the Progress Party here, and who also supports the Right in terms of housing. I believe that the means we have today are good, but they must be used actively to secure living settlements. In particular, we need to focus on the use of smaller properties, i.e. properties below the concession limit. If more people get a chance to acquire life estates, something more than an empty one, we can get a win-win situation. I've underlined that in my previous post, and I'm not going to repeat it again. Then I have received a few questions from Røbekk Nørve that I would like to answer. The representative mentioned a matter in a written question that I have answered, which concerns the union home in Eigersund. I just want to stress again that we are now working on a review of the principles of the practice of the sharing ban. New guidelines will be developed, and we are in the process of doing so. The size will be adequately informed as soon as possible. Then to the representative of Bredvold. He has also raised a few questions that he wants an answer to. I just want to stress that in the context of the work on developing new industries in the countryside based on agricultural resources, I am concerned with travel life, as Bredvold also stresses, and other uses of the resources we have on the farms. In that case, of course, production must be within the limits imposed by law and by rules. I assume that is a responsibility of the individual practitioner. We use instruments by amending the legislation, adjusting the law of sharing and adjusting price regulation instruments, to stimulate these efforts, as well as making use of instruments over the agricultural agreement through Innovation Norway. In the end, I just want to stress that when we talk about increasing the turnover of properties in agriculture, we have to remember that those who own these properties also have their property rights, which they must be allowed to care for. It also means that they can refrain from selling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1960	That is the examination of case No. 6 is over. The meeting is now suspended. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first case is case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e1983	The called alternate of the West Agder counties, Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2002	In the last decades, the number of reindeer in Finnmark has increased significantly, and this is considered to be a problem, as a desire for sustainable resource use, i.e. a cut-off number that is best suited to bets. It has been such that the individual reindeer determines for themselves how many puree to be slaughtered. This was and is not a problem as long as there is a surplus of pasturage, but when the total reindeer becomes too large in relation to grazing access, there is a problem with an increased risk of loss of animals. There are several reasons why a practitioner would like to have more clean. One of the obvious is the desire for better income in subsequent years. Another reason is the need to insure against the losses that you know years will come about. As your own insurance, the solution is to have so many clean ones that you can withstand the loss without losing the basis of existence. Each of these causes is logical and reasonable in itself, and as an individual, most people in the same situation will try to increase their own herd of reindeer. The problem arises when everyone thinks the same and everyone increases their pet numbers. This in itself will increase the risk and accelerate losses due to reduced nutritional availability. So when everyone increases, one will sooner or later achieve the opposite effect of what you want. Instead of insuring yourself against loss, accelerating and increasing a loss of pure. The problems of adapting to a limited natural basis are not a specific phenomenon in reindeer management. One finds clear parallels in other parts of society. In Norway, it is most obvious to compare overfishing with herring and cod. Although the individual fisherman realized that the catches were too large, and that it was wrong, the individual fisherman was powerless. If a fisherman stops his fish, the other fisherman fishes the last cod. The logical strategy is to participate to ensure that he does not become a double loser: the stock is overfished without even getting part of what is being harvested. In principle, there are two possible solutions to the problem of adapting activities to the resource base. One solution is that the nutritionists themselves agree on a highest degree of purity that they distribute between themselves. They must then introduce the necessary control measures internally. This requires a transparent grouping of nutritionists. This is useful, for example: not to bet on such a solution for cod fishing in the Barents Sea. The second possible solution to the resource adjustment is that an outside authority determines allowances allocating the limited resources. At the same time, they must implement the necessary control measures to ensure compliance with the rules. Professor Reidar Elven expresses the following to the research magazine Apollon: ‘Samian reindeer management damages the biodiversity of Finnmark’s territory. The problem is the size of the reindeer flocks. The winter pastures throughout the interior of Finnland are almost destroyed. [[...]] Most of the reinlavene is already eaten or drained by reindeer. [[...]] The most hard hit areas are already desert. [[...]] The degradation of Finnmark is therefore an ecological disaster. [[...]] [[...]] It may take up to fifty years before the reinlavene is back The operation has already been unbalanced with nature for at least 30 to 40 years.» Rolf Anker Ims, project manager for Ecosystem Finnmark, who combines the fields of ecology and social sciences to find the reasons for and consequences of reindeer variations within both disciplines, states: ‘The project has collected data from slaughterhouses, inter alia, to assess whether plurality in reindeer flocks leads to lower slaughter weights on the animals. Such a relationship has been widely accepted in the past and was also clearly demonstrated in the Finnish Ecosystem. However, the study has also shown some of the biological mechanisms behind the low slaughter weights. Foetals of sims slaughtered in the winter were examined, and the foetuses were found to be smaller in sims from high-density populations than in the low-density populations. So pasturage has effects on the reindeer already in Mother's life. – In addition, we see that the teeth of pure from high density areas in Finnmark wear faster than in all other comparable cervid populations. In fact, the teeth wear down to the gums in just a few years. – The reason is the grazing, which means that the cleaners have to eat more high-fibrous diet. The animals are also likely to get some sand and stone as a result of degraded pasture vegetation. “The poor teeth make the animals even less able to make use of their poor diet Some researchers, for example, believe that very high grazing pressure over time could tip the ecosystem in a positive direction by gradually being dominated by productive grazing plants such as nutritious grass species. [[...]] – We have refuted this theory. Our project clearly shows that for many pure people, grazing is reduced, even within the most productive summer pastures The social part of the project has also killed some myths. [[...]] Among other things, the theory that participation, voluntary agreements and economic incentives, so-called ‘gulrot instruments’, are more effective than the good old whip. – The cleaning industry itself actively participates in the process of setting framework conditions for the industry, and at the same time expresses dissatisfaction with the renumbering adjustments. – It turns out that there are many disagreements about how to determine the purity, which parts of the industry should reduce the number and which instruments should be used, says IMS. He also believes that the co-management system has led to greater power for people with many clean powers, while the subsidy and compensation system favours large flocks. This is particularly good after so-called disaster winters. After such winters, people who are both large will be left with the most animals for further production and will receive the bulk of the compensation from the authorities. – In reality, the system operates in such a way that those who operate least sustainably are favoured by the State. The authorities' intention has probably been to help the reindeer industry in a sustainable way, but the authorities have not been able to see the long-term consequences of the management of Rein driften as an important cultural carrier in Finnmark. [[...]] At the same time, the industry must meet production requirements that coincide with the rest of society. “The clean-up industry is at the intersection of new and old times, and is therefore facing many challenges, not least in the context of climate change. A warmer climate in Finnmark can have a great effect on the winter pastures for reindeer. [[...]] – Mildness with subsequent frost or snow on a broad scale are challenges that will require much of both industry and government Ecologist Rolf Anker Ims does not conceal that the project Ecosystem Finnmark has been challenging. This is the professional community that has joined the system. The reindeer document more infested game damage to their animals than before. From last year to this year, the compensation has increased by 40 pst. The claims for compensation for the last reindeer year have now been dealt with. This year, about 20,000 pure people killed by predatory game were compensated, and a total of 57 million were given. DKK in compensation for lost animals, compared with 35 million. Last year – a big increase. The reindeer’s last year of reindeer operation has been able to document the damage caused by predatory game of 1 300 pure, and this is an increase of approx. 50 pst. from last year. Of these, about half are documented globular lesions. An estimated 80,000 animals have been lost for various reasons during the last year of reindeer management. Of these, the reindeers have applied for compensation for 65 000 animals. That is, there are 213 animals dying every day in Finnmark. If this is not enough, Norwegian taxpayers must also pay carnivores in the hundreds of thousands of krona class to Swedish reindeers. I asked my colleagues in the Nordic Council if they would pay compensation for Norwegian Sami on Swedish soil. The answer was that they were not naive, nor did they have access to Norwegian oil billions. Where is this going to end? We need to put in place effective and fair control mechanisms. Such a proposal should be to earmark reindeer electronically in the same way as sheep. Every reindeer has to get a separate number. Only in that way can we verify the number. We have to start a large-scale slaughter of tamrein, especially in the west, so that the number of tamrein can come down to such a level that we can have a sustainable nourishment. Instead of sustainably developing the reindeer industry in Finland, Stortinget and today’s government choose not to do anything. The government should give priority to caring for the grazing and resource base, but today’s government chooses a policy that does not respect sustainability. On the contrary, one chooses to deal with Sami rights and requirements and ignores the principle of sustainability. This is a bear service to the reindeer industry in general, but is also devastating for all other food establishments. The situation in Finnmark is such that an industry that receives more than 100 million annually. kr in State subsidies, has been granted exclusive rights, while operating exclusively on all other developments and the establishment of businesses that have the right to life. When will the Government start taking responsibility for its failed policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2108	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for the interpellation, which gives us an opportunity to discuss the premises for sustainable reindeer management. Initially, I would also like to point out that Finnmark is the country's largest reindeer farm, and that reindeer farming here is a significant economic and employment factor. Regardless of the reindeer discussion, it will in any case be necessary to deal in Finnmark in different ways with reindeer management as an important part of society. The purity of parts of Finnmark has been on the agenda for several decades. In St.meld. No 13 for 1974–1975, About an action plan for the Sámi settlement areas, the situation of reindeer management is described in more detail. I'm not going to go into everything that was expressed there, but to illustrate, I'm going to reproduce the following passus: «At the same time, the adverse effects of over-taxation of the pasturage are reinforced by the downwards of the slaughter weight of the animals and, in order to maintain the economic yield, the stock is increased. This vicious circle can only be broken if the number of units of use in the reindeer operation is brought down slightly, while at the same time there is a reasonable restriction on the size of the flock. Such regulations must be applied for under the law on reindeer management.’;» The questions of purity have later been raised and discussed in different contexts, not least from the Stockholm Chair. A number of different measures have been put in place over the years, including: the five-year migration programme for Inner Finnmark, which was a follow-up to St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992 with the title: Sustainable reindeer management. As the representative of Tåldal points out, the Riksrevision has also had a comprehensive process in relation to the issues related to the resource situation in these areas. The representative, Tjældal, asks questions about what I as the Council of State would do in the matter. First, I have to make it clear that it was the Rein driftsgestiget which decided in 2002 on the maximum reindeer number for the reindeer grazing districts in the West-Finland reindeer grazing area, with a total of 64,300 animals. For eastern Finland, the corresponding figure is 74,200 animals, but the figures for the districts here are fixed at different times. I also consider it important to clarify – and it is important – that it is only in some areas of Finnmark that the reindeer number is too high in relation to the grazing basis. It is therefore important to be nuanced when referring to the reindeer industry. Clearly, in most districts and areas there are no problems related to the reindeer number. As I mentioned in the introduction, the issue has been linked to too high a reindeer in parts of Finnmark on the agenda for many decades. Many governments and government councils have been working on these issues for many years without solving the matter. This shows, in my view, that, first of all, one faces a very complex problem, and, second, that it is necessary to think completely new and take a completely different approach from what has been done until quite recently. We must be able to say clearly that such a distinction has been made under the new reindeer law that we have now received. In my opinion, the possibility of taking a completely different approach to sewage treatment policy was clearly demonstrated by the adoption by Stortinget of a new reindeer management law in June 2007. Shortly after the government took over the responsibility of Stoltenberg I, an initiative was taken to adopt a new reindeer management law. Such an initiative was received positively from several teams because it had been discovered over many years that the tool that had been used until then had not been sufficiently developed. Not least, the industry itself was in favour of the follow-up of the government. The new reindeer management law came into force on 1 July 2007. A significant change from the previous reindeer management law is that a completely new scheme for reindeer fixing has been introduced in the new law. The rules of use shall determine the figures for each side according to the area of the site. The clean figure thus gets a direct anchoring in the available surface at side level. This figure shall then be approved by the Rein driftssteuurt. Prior to work on rules of use and renumbering, criteria were developed for determining reindeer numbers in cooperation with industry. These criteria shall be applied at all levels of the decision-making process. In this context, I just have to point out that the cooperation between authorities and industry during the establishment of criteria is both new and unique. The new reindeer management law is responsible and involves the reindeer industry to a much greater extent than before. Experience from previous processes has just shown that the lack of cooperation and the lack of involvement of industry has been a clear and contributing cause for a lack of achievement. I am convinced that it is important to avoid a top-down attitude when working on this kind of thing, if a person wants real results and not conflict. Work is currently in progress on the preparation and authorisation of rules of use. The districts had a deadline of 1 July 2009 to submit the rules of use. What number you're going to get out with here remains to be seen. However, in my view, the process it has set up provides the best possible basis for a responsible pasturage that is sustainable over time. Once this process has been completed, a reduction in purity is assumed where this is too high in relation to the established one. It must also be mentioned that the reindeer management law has its own procedures for reindeer reduction, procedures that are far more effective than under old law. Penalties for those not complying with public decisions are also much more nuanced and effective than under old law. This gives the authorities a much better tool than you've had up to now. I will follow developments in the future carefully and continuously assess progress and effectiveness. In extending this, I would also like to point out the need to create a calm and a good environment for interaction in this important work. If the instruments of the new law produce the desired results, it will take some time to learn in all details. But at least you don't have to get into a situation where you give up before you try out the new tool that the law gives. In my opinion, the procedure we are now following is the right one, and that one should also work with in the future. Nor can I see that some other actors have presented an alternative and credible arrangement that would indicate that we should now change course. In addition, work is under way on a major communication on agricultural policy to be presented in 2011. In this message, reindeer operations will also have their natural place. The Communication will carry out a broad and thorough review of the reindeer management policy to see if it is necessary to adjust the price or take new action. In this work, it will be important for many good premises suppliers. In addition to recordings from the reindeer myself, I would like, among other things. point out that work is in progress in the light of research institutions that it would be natural to familiarise themselves with and involve themselves in the assessments. When this message is available, I hope we have a good debate in the Grand Duchy on key issues and choices. But the starting point is that we're still going to have reindeer in Norway, and all good forces must now be united in order for this to be viable and an important and positive element in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2145	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hear that there is a work going on and started a process, but I don't feel that it happens enough. The council confirmed what I said in my post. So in West Finland, a number of 64,300 animals has been adopted. Today we have almost 100,000 animals in West Finland. So we have about 30,000 animals too much just there. If we go on summering, we might get up in a place between 40,000 and 50,000 animals too much in Norway as a whole. What I want to challenge the state council is: the state council recognizes that the figure is too high, but what does the state council do to bring the figure down to the level set by the state, which in West Finland is 64,300 animals, to take an example? And then you also have examples where you say that the reindeer is based on the area that the side has. I guess that's good. On the island of Tjeld Island in Northern Ireland, they had the reindeer number set up. Once you've been allowed to do that, you just increase the pure number. When complaints are then lodged by the municipalities, the Council of State does not do anything about it. You just ignore that you're breaking what you've agreed on. You don't do anything to bring down the number. So here I think you have to change course. If you say one thing and you implement a regulation, you also have to go in and rule by that regulation. The peasants in Finnmark have the problem that they are invaded by the reindeer that destroys the soil and grass that they need to feed their animals again. Peasants in Alta that I have talked to can tell them to slaughter some of their cattle because they don't have enough food – it's ruined by pure. To this, the head of the reindeer, who is run by the Council of State, says, among other things. That you can only contact her, then you have to get the clean away from the ground. When you contact the reindeer manager, the farmers get no answer from her. And when you ask for it, you get the answer from the reindeer manager that she can't do anything about it because she lost to her government, where three people sit together and two people sit. So it is a majority of the government who vote down that the cleanness of the earth is to be retrieved. This makes frustration pretty big, and you get conflicts out of it. If the minister shows that he has – let's say – a way to sort out, that if you don't follow the rules that are set up, it's a kind of rice behind the mirror, I think this is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2162	Unfortunately, in many ways – I regret to say so – I feel that the representative Treldal, through many of the claims made here, stigmatises the reindeer industry. As I underlined in my first post: in many areas there are no problems with the reindeer number, in some areas there are problems. What is the answer, of course, is to take responsibility for the reindeer operation as one has done, and as one has laid down in the new reindeer management law. But one must at the same time give the reindeer a chance to follow the legislation adopted by the Storting, by a large majority. There is a lack of understanding, I think, by the representative of the Treldals when he makes comments today. He does not understand the processes that must take place once we have established and implemented a new code, a new law, where a precisely implementing what he wants, a regulation of the reindeer number. There is a lot to do, and it makes a lot of sense, both by putting in place this new reindeer management law, which is responsible for the industry, and which provides us with sanctions for following it up, and through the reindeer management agreement, where one through the financial instruments promotes depopulation or increased withdrawals from the areas where it is necessary to bring down the reindeer number. Then I would like to stress that if this is how you think it is done wrong in the reindeer management, it is free to take it up with me. But then I would like to be able to document in writing what is said here from the Parliamentary Chair. I would also like to stress that the conflict in Alta, as the representative of the Treldal also mentions, has been followed up directly by me. At the beginning of November, I was at a meeting in Alta where we met all the actors. What we've done here is responsible for the reindeer management, the reindeer management, the farmers and the municipality of Alta. They all said they agreed that they would work together, on the basis of what the law on reindeer management expects, in order to get good solutions. And I just want to say that I'm going to establish a mediation board. This mediation board shall make proposals which may directly reduce the level of conflict in Alta. The startup meeting of this mediation board is next week. The start-up is of course now, because it is important to get the work done so that any problems with clean inland to spring can be averted. I want to be very clear that there is no right to graze on the land or in the areas of peace, and it has to be followed up. Of course, it must be followed up by the reindeer manager and by others responsible for this in the local administration. Governing bodies shall follow-up if this is not observed and if public interests require intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2179	At regular intervals there are questions about upper terms, replacement payments, etc. have been discussed here in the Chamber, and there can be an impression that nothing is being done to achieve a sustainable reindeer operation. It's particularly the situation in Finnmark that gets focused on, because it's obvious that it's in parts of Finnmark that we have the biggest problems. Like the Council of State, I think it is timely to remind you that in large parts of the country where there is Sami reindeer or reindeer operations are carried out by others, it is a sustainable operation. And if there are problems, it's not overgrazing that's the problem, there might be other relationships that play in. That's why I think it's important to have a slightly nuanced approach, so we don't all intersect over a comb. In many areas, for example: the predatory situation, which is the main threat to Sami reindeer and Sami culture, and also to livestock grazing areas. I think the Council of State has made a clear statement on the work being done, in the light of the new Law on Repurchase, which came into force on 1 July 2007. Here the industry has been held responsible in a completely different way than before. It is the responsibility of the reindeer owners to determine an upper reindeer, based on the area of the site. Then it can be a sustainable operation, and after what I'm told, good processes are now in place in most areas. However, the challenges of this work must not be underestimated and devalued. Here, usual attitudes, habits, customs and manners, yes, the whole culture for how one is used to acting, breaking up and changing. That's why this takes time. It's important, as the Council of State was about, to get good processes around this. And it has been necessary to develop detailed guides for this work. When many are going into such a process, in my view, there has to be some understanding that things take some time. I therefore believe that the new reindeer management law has created a time gap, that the processes to put in place an upper reindeer number in all the sides and districts are in line, and then I assume that the reindeer numbers are going down in the areas it is too high. We have to see the results of that, and if we don't get the results, then the State Council has sanctions. It is right to have clicked on this work and it is timely to ask questions about the pace of the process. In parts of Finnmark, the level of conflict is high. In-house grazing conflicts between agriculture and reindeer management are demanding to be resolved. If one succeeds in this, all involved must do their utmost to solve the problem constructively. No one has in the long run served with unresolved grazing conflicts and other more or less lawless conditions. The interpellant raises questions about the high compensation payments. In my opinion, this is a complex problem that has to do with more than too much reindeer. Large amounts of pure are applied, both by car and by train – where trains are. We regularly read about large animal massages on and by the railway. The large predators are also a major threat in parts of the country. I am therefore pleased that Soria Moria II states that we should have a review of predatory policies, among other things. to ensure that it is possible to have grazing animals in areas where predators are also present. It has some consequences that I won't get into here. The large animal tradidates due to an out-of-control strain are at least possible to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2196	The Party considers that reindeer management must be treated as other industrial activities. The industry should be carried out as freely as possible and public liability should be limited to the prudent resource management of public grazing areas. The loss of reindeer on pasture in the event of predatory attacks has gradually become a major problem for the reindeer industry in Sami areas. The management of the wild game stock must be ensured on a local basis. Furthermore, it is necessary to oblige the country to compensate for the loss of animals. The Progress Party also wants to reduce red tape related to the reindeer industry. That's what the interpellant says, a very high number of reindeer now. Over 250,000 animals are many, and you have to go back many years to find a correspondingly high number. Especially in Finnmark County, which has approx. 74 pst. of the total number of animals, and here the number has also increased considerably lately. It goes without saying that so many animals create problems. The lack of grazing indicates that the number of animals should and must be adapted accordingly. But for the individual reindeer, the number of pure animals slaughtered is often that which determines the income this year — the more animals, the greater income. Of course, this is not a problem when areas and pastures are good and large, but obviously the crossroads between how many animals you can have and the possibilities for these to develop have become unbalanced. It now turns out that the fetuses from sims from high density populations are significantly smaller than those with more space. So pasturage has an effect on the reindeer already in Mother's life. Infertility also leads to a fall in the slaughter weight, so that one would think that a more balanced number of animals would lead to a better economy for the industry as a whole. It is also claimed that grazing leads to more wear on the teeth of the reindeer, and it in turn makes the reindeer less able to make use of what it eats. Purgatory is perceived as, and is, an important cultural carrier in Finnland and elsewhere in the country. That's the great understanding of all of us. At the same time, industry must meet production requirements that coincide with the rest of society. The sewerage industry is at an intersection between old and new times. Once again, the industry faces many challenges — and perhaps difficult challenges. Otherwise this is an industry that is plagued by many losses. Losses occur for different reasons. ==References== 80,000 animals have been lost in the last year. This is too high a number for the industry to live with it. The number has to be reduced strongly, and we have to clarify why the number is so high. Crustaceans are a major part of this, and there has been a sharp increase in recent years. The amount of compensation from the previous year to the last year has increased from 35 million. NOK 57 million. kr, subject to the correctness of all figures. Another problem that has intensified in recent years is the conflict between residents, and especially farmers, and the reindeer industry. Fuzzy limits and rights make the problem a big deal in some places. The number of road accidents has also increased considerably. This results in great suffering for the animals as well as material damage and other expenses, both for the car owners and the railway. It is therefore positive that the representative, Mr Tåldal, addresses this issue. It is positive that the Ministry of Agriculture will look into the matter, and it is positive that the industry itself also wants to regulate the number of animals – at least they may want to. But we must not regulate the whole industry, but let it be a nourishment with its rich cultural traditions that must have framework conditions and conditions that enable it to survive and live on its animals, without jeopardizing the nourishment of others or the quality of life of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2219	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this issue to debate. For a politician, this must be a much more pleasant and inspiring form of political craftsmanship than driving cowboy gitting in various media demanding the rightful killing of other people's cattle. It is therefore with sincerity that I thank the interpellant for this opportunity to debate a great industry and the framework around it, and not least a major and serious problem. The cleaning industry, like other primary industries, is driving a difficult balancing art to find space in today's modern society, a society where one can claim that our wealth is calculated by what sits between our ears and not primarily by how many brands you can put in the ears of what you own – a society where you lose more and more knowledge of living in and of nature. In this image, the interpellantic theme becomes even more important. Here are examples where two industries that are in many ways under the same cross-section conflict with each other. In the past, state councils have been exemplary in the conflict between reindeer and farmers in Alta. And by his presence he marked the seriousness of the situation. He was also ready that the best thing was to solve this locally. So far, all right. So it's my impression that you lose some interest in the problem. In the rest of Finnmark County there are also conflicts around reindeer management. In many cases, too, the number of pure is too high. We have examples of sheep farmers experiencing greater and greater losses to predators. The Varanger peninsula now feels that it is pure throughout the year and in greater and larger numbers. Because of the difficulty of finding pastures, moving parts of the flock from summer to winter pasture is avoided. This in turn results in a higher pressure on the summer pastures with a risk of grazing damage and poorer quality of the meat. The number of predators like you and gloats is also increasing when there is a greater supply of food throughout the year. This in turn creates problems for both the agricultural and the reindeer industries. There are also major discussions between the various reindeer districts. Some run well with structured flocks, and in this way they get a good living while delivering a great product for which they can get well paid. These districts may refer to high slaughter weights, profitable operations and a low daily conflict. Then we have other examples of districts with too large flocks, which can indicate very low slaughter weight. This may be due to schemes with too many drivers. It may be due to drivers who are not really drivers but who have a side share anyway, or it may be due to the old idea that a high number of animals are a good image of good equity. From the industry it is claimed that the average slaughter weight of the calves can give a very good measure of the ratio of pure numbers to pasture land. When you see that the average slaughter weight can vary from 12 to 24 kg in the different districts, you might know that here's what you should look at. Increasing the premium for slaughtering calves is claimed to be a consistent way of bringing down the reindeer. Here, efforts can be significantly increased if problems are to be taken seriously. The current agricultural notification uses a concept called ‘cultural sustainability’ for reindeer farming. The sewage treatment industry shall be operated within the framework of economic, ecological and cultural sustainability. As the environment and framework factors change more and more rapidly, cultural sustainability can quickly turn into a double edged sword. The right-wing opinion is that it is high time to look at the reindeer industry in relation to today's reality. That is why we in the opposition in the context of this year's budget promoted proposals for a separate reindeer notification. In a Communication, it would be natural to discuss issues relating to the structure of industry, the number of practitioners, the form of ownership and the level of involvement in the industry in order to participate. It is regrettable and for the reindeer, I fear, harmful that the government parties are not willing to take the industry so seriously that they follow us in this. A notified farm report can quickly become so large that we lose sight of the reindeer. If the Council of State takes the reindeer as seriously as this is said, it should get its own notification of uprooting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2240	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the inter-pellation, and thank the Council of State for a good and complementary response. Finnland is the country's largest reindeer farm, and reindeer farming is a significant part of society in the county. It is also the case that reindeer management is an important basis for Sami culture and tradition. But also outside Finnmark, reindeer farming is important for Sami settlement. I even come from an area where the reindeer industry is important to exploit the land resources. In South Norway overgrazing is not a problem. The slaughter weight of calves has actually increased steadily over the past few years, and if I don't remember completely wrong, it has increased by 20 pst. only in the last decade. On the contrary, the field is more threatened by regrowth because there are too few grazing animals because the sheep industry is marginalised in many areas. This is, of course, due to the large predatory strains, and adjustment in predatory policies is necessary to maintain biodiversity. In this case, it is important to stress that it is only in some areas of Finnmark that the reindeer number is too high in relation to the grazing basis. It's important to be nuanced when talking about the reindeer industry. I refer in that context to the statements of the Norwegian Samers Riksförbund in the NRK yesterday. It can be clearly stated that in most districts and areas there is no problem with the reindeer number. Of course, it does not make the situation any better in the areas concerned, and I have a strong understanding of the challenges facing the agricultural industry in these areas. Of course, clean should not graze on the courtyard. However, this is a problem that is not new. The problem of excessive reindeer in parts of Finnmark has been on the agenda for many decades. Many governments have worked on these issues without the matter being resolved. It is now possible to take a completely different approach to sewage policy than it has been in the past. The new reindeer management law was adopted in June 2007 and a significant change is that the new law has introduced a new scheme for determining the reindeer number. The rules of use shall determine the figures for each side according to the area of the site. The clean figure thus gets a direct anchoring in the accessible area at side level. This cut-off number shall be approved by the Purity Management Board. Prior to work on rules of use and renumbering, criteria were developed for determining reindeer numbers in cooperation with industry. These criteria shall be applied at all levels of the decision-making process. The new reindeer management law will be part of and responsible for the reindeer industry, and it will involve industry even to a much greater extent than before. What figures will be provided for each page will be established in 2010. Most of the pages have now come with their estimates, and then it is up to the board to approve them. Those who don't make their own calculations will get a calculation from the board. The process set up here provides, in the view of the Centre Party, the basis for a pasturage that will be sustainable over time. Once this process has been completed, it is assumed, of course, that the pure number will be reduced where it is too high in relation to what will be determined. I also show that work has been started on a major communication on agricultural policy, which will be presented in 2011. The Council of State confirmed in its statement that reindeer management will also have a place in this Communication and that a broad and thorough review of the reindeer management policy will be carried out to see if it is necessary to adjust the price or to take new action. The centre party insists that we continue to have viable reindeer farms in Norway, and I look forward to a good debate in the UK on the main issues and road choices when dealing with the agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2261	The inter-pellant addresses an important issue that concerns both animal health, nutritional and ecological sustainability. As the interpellant points out, there are challenges to reindeer activity in Finland, both in the case of conflict with farmers and in the case of road accidents. This winter has also created unusual problems for the reindeer industry in Northern Ireland. Due to difficult winter weather, reindeer have pulled down from the mountain and gathered in other pastures. This has resulted in tragic accidents on the Nordlandsbanen. Nearly 100 reindeer have been hit by trains along the Northern runway, with the suffering and pain it causes the animals. In addition, mental stress also comes on cleaners and added to the railway station, which has to take care of dead animals for ever. The industry itself has a long time to warn that something needs to be done, and young entrepreneurs do not see a future for the industry if the measures do not work. In South-Trande Teams, they have recently completed a dialogue project on land regulation in reindeer areas. There they have been some about running rules for the treatment of conflicts of interest between reindeer and e.g. tourism. Perhaps such a project could also be carried out in other countries. It is almost 20 years since the Stortinget has been dealing with its own big business message about reindeer drift, i.e. St.meld. No 28 for 1991-1992. The Christian People's Party believes that there has to be a new reindeer message, and not just a review, in the next message on agriculture, in the light of the big changes that have occurred in the reindeer during this period. This applies both to the ecological level with land use interventions, land loss, predatory loss and climate change; to the legal level with an increased focus on customary law, new law on reindeer management, and on the economic level with the conversion of reindeer and replacement schemes. In addition, reindeer industries, especially in Finnland, have challenges related to production variations, low slaughter weights, very high reported predatory losses and low productivity. We need a holistic review of the nutrition. In the spring of 2007, a new reindeer law was passed in Stortinget. The law was the result of a long and thorough process, and the new rules are an innovation both for reindeer and for society. The new reindeer law provides for internal self-government in reindeer management in a completely different way from the one before, while at the same time giving the authorities the opportunity to discharge their responsibilities for reindeer viability. Purity districts have an important role to play in the follow-up to new clean-up law and shall develop resource management rules. New tools were also created that can be inserted when reducing a high integer. We need the tools now! The low-level situation on Finnmarkswiss is far from good enough. The agreement provides a stronger incentive for all reindeer owners in the West of Finland to reduce and adjust the reindeer numbers by replacing the previous calving and early slaughtering systems with a new addition where the reindeer have to comply with a fixed slaughter requirement. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the work of reducing the reindeer in the most deferred areas of Finnmark takes a long time, and is concerned that this important work is being followed up, so that one ensures a most resilient reindeer drive. This is particularly important in terms of animal welfare, but also in order to ensure that reindeer operations take place within a defensive ecological and economic framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2278	I think this debate on the reindeer numbers in Finnmark is very important, because there is also an agreed consensus that the reindeer numbers in parts of the county are too high. Under the new reindeer management law of 2007, the reindeer is to be set in such a way that it is sustainable both ecologically, economically and culturally. We're not there today, and we have a long way to go. We all know that reindeer farming is a land-intensive industry. This can be a challenge in relation to the other needs of society. We record almost every day where representatives of the industry express great frustration that they are being pushed on the ground. One such case is the planned 420 kilovolt line for Finnmark. We must have both respect and understanding for that. But too much reindeer doesn't make the situation better, rather more difficult, and as the interpellant was about, too high a reindeer also contributes to conflicts with other industries. In my home municipality, Alta, the level of conflict is high in relation to agriculture, and we also experience little respect for grazing limits. But I know that the Council of State is working on it, which he has also confirmed here tonight. We are many who expect this type of conflict to be history soon. They just have to be cleared away. No industry can develop if one is in conflict with one's environment, nor with the reindeer industry. If we're going to get a positive development of the reindeer industry, I think it's important to move focus from conflict to development. Many believe that the importance of reindeer management for increased value creation in Finnmark is underestimated and not least underestimated. As a politician from Finnmark, I agree with this claim. We've probably had too much focus on the conflicts and not enough focus on the possibilities. Numbers say that reindeer management is an important district industry in the county. Very many are employed in this industry. Just as fishing and other activities are important for the lighting of houses on the coast, the reindeer industry is important for the lighting of Finnmark houses. We also know that the potential for a positive development of the industry is great. A lot of exciting work is going on. This is a good starting point for developing the business opportunities that are in the industry. We all have an important task of putting it on the agenda. There should be a more professional debate that reindeer management is also an important industry, and not just an important one in a cultural context. Finnmark has almost a monopoly situation on reindeer meat in this country. That gives you possibilities. We know that the market is there, but we also know that it has been difficult to reach the market. At present there is an exciting market work that we all hope will succeed. Today there's a lot of talk about reindeer and slaughter weight. I think that, in the future, we need to focus much more on adapting the right ratio in a sustainable perspective, as the new reindeer law adds. Some pages have taken up this layout. Today, we find examples of pages that have halved the reindeer flock, yet have increased turnover and value creation. It only confirms the existence of the development potential. What may have so far marked the reindeer drift is that having many clean has been important for the place and position of the individual reindeer owner within the reindeer operators. In other words, the operation has been very culturally influenced. But we're recording that a new generation of practitioners are now on their way into the industry, and they're drifting differently. They prioritise economic profitability and operations on the basis of modern farming principles. But getting new generations into the industry also means that someone needs to get out, and it often happens through generation change. In this context, there are some challenges, especially in relation to vague and partially poor generation shift incentives. Here something has to be done. I encourage the Council of State to look at the challenges facing the industry in the context of generation change. The industry is under strong State influence. This position should be exploited to a much greater extent than we have until now. As far as I am aware, rules of use and subsidies are in the process of being designed that strengthen reindeer management based on business and socio-economic criteria. I am very pleased that this is enshrined in the new reindeer agreement, by stimulating increased value creation by amending the grant scheme. In this respect, I find the experience gained from the Western Finland testing scheme interesting, where previous and traditional challenges have been replaced by grants with conditions under which the recipient must comply with a specific slaughter and production requirement. In my opinion, it is a fine way to meet the future, both in terms of the challenges and not least in view of the opportunities we see in the industry. If we succeed here, which I believe in, we get a sustainable reindeer both ecologically, economically and culturally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2302	State Council Breck began his speech by claiming that there were some big business representatives who were less serious and responsible than others. He thus highlighted himself in connection with his visit to Alta, where he had apparently cleared up in a precarious situation. I can inform State Council Breck that 14 days after he left Alta, there were still a few hundred reindeer in the private field. There is no doubt that the situation in Finnmark regarding too high a reindeer is precarious. Nor is there any doubt that if the assumptions for reintroduction in Finnmark had been based on sustainability and interaction with the grazing resource base, the situation in the industry would have been quite different from it today. Unfortunately, we only have to learn that in areas where enlargement and government should set sustainability and the grazing resource base as the main factors for the industry, we have, in principle and in reality, an ongoing right-wing struggle in which the industry, which is the largest bearer of Sami culture, is used for what it is worth — at the expense of sustainability, at the expense of the grazing resource base, and at the expense of the farmers. The size and current government has for over 15 years demonstrated a complete lack of willingness to take on what sustainability actually is. Of course, I am aware that there are major local differences in Finnmark. Not all of the areas are equally hard to cover, but West-Finnmark is particularly exposed to overgrazing and has been so for years, without any growth or government doing anything. The reason for that is exactly what I've been up to. No one has wanted to intervene. What's the result? The result is overstock, it's animal tragedy, and we experience that parts of West Finland are at risk of becoming a mountain desert. The fear of intervention in the rights issue makes government after government the action lamb. This is precisely why the reindeer number has been allowed to increase by 50 pst. Over a few years. So, of course, the industry will complain and say: No, the big community comes into our areas – building houses, building lines, getting poor conditions to run with nourishment. But the truth is that the number of reindeer in Finnmark has increased by 50 pst. from 10 to 12 years. What happens when no one intervenes and wants to regulate an industry? Of course, any practitioner wants to have as many animals as possible, giving the most status, giving the most subsidies, and giving the most income. This is not the industry’s fault – on the contrary, there is a lack of regulation from the state. You could wonder how much fish there would be left in the ocean if each fisherman had his own quota determined. It is precisely for this reason that fishing is strictly regulated. This is not the case with the reindeer industry. This year has been a golden year for the industry. Weather and climate are the main cause of it. But despite the fact that there has been a gold year in many places, the number of claims and payments has almost gone straight to the ceiling. What will happen when it comes back to a normal year, we can only imagine, not least given that the industry is already subsidised by the state by 50 pst. of gross turnover. In 2008/2009, an application was made for compensation for over 62,000 animals of a total strain in Finnmark of 187 000. If there's someone who thinks there's a good connection between these two numbers, I don't know, but I find the context very striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2319	This is an important and interesting interpellation, and I am positively surprised that the interpellant cares so much about the reindeer industry and our indigenous people that he chooses to address this important theme. I also think that the answer that the Minister of Agriculture returns is in many ways positive. Nevertheless, I allow myself to comment on some of these relationships. The purity of Finnmark has varied widely over the years. It could be said that the government-determined increase in reindeer management started in the 1970s, with a state-encouragingment to poor, small units to acquire larger flocks. It was the beginning of a rather dramatic increase in reindeer numbers, because in Finnmark in the 1960s the situation was that it was usually less than 100,000 animals, less than it is today. The number has varied very strongly. In the 1988/1989 season, for example, the number of clean land in Finnmark was more than 200 000, for again, at the turn of the millennium, to be down to 100 000. Climatic conditions, predatory outlets, etc. has had a significant impact on the situation. But it's not like some people want to make this, that it's such a to the degrees of subsidized nutrition that internal Finnland bears the mark of a wealth that no other part of the country can compare with, rather the opposite. It is true that when the big community chooses to direct this industry then to the degrees around the concept of culture – it is believed that culture and nutrition should go in this way – and when the big community almost expects to operate this industry as it did 250 years ago, it often has to bear the mark of a ‘mismatch’. The question is whether there is a willingness today to realign with what is, as it were, the demands of the big society. It is as a well-known Norwegian Prime Minister once said, that ‘everything is related to everything’. I believe that some of what Council of State Breck had in mind is important to take over, because this industry has been very much driven by production. It is not that this industry has more support per year. kilograms produced than, for example, the agricultural industry. That's the exact opposite that's the case. And through the political tool we have here in the house, the reindeer agreement, you have to try to focus the spotlight much more on market work, not just on production work. A well-known Norwegian politician who was just blessed with a biography, former left-wing leader Sponheim, for a rather difficult year, 2003/2004, for exceptional marketing, television advertising, which contributed to a great boost for the industry, which, however, was short-sighted. I do not believe that the Norwegian reindeer industry is served by the fact that it is agriculturally cooperative in Norway that manages the market work of the industry. I would like as much as I can ask the Council of State to look at this, while he looks at what several speakers have underlined, among others. Frank Bakke Jensen and the spokesman of the Christian People's Party, that one must be willing to give Norwegian reindeer industry its own big business message. Do not allow this to become a left-hand job in and around a future agricultural message. It doesn't help how important it is to say that getting your own chapter is going to be, if you don't take the trouble of making sure that the concept of value creation and market work gets a completely different and larger dimension for this industry, with its enormous potential. Then you won't achieve the goal you want to achieve. I think we all have a common goal that this industry is going to develop constructively, because there is a huge supply of a very valuable product, and it's a huge market of purchasing power, and then there's a "mismatch" between the two important parts of communication. I really hope that Council of State Breck will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2332	I think it's been a very good debate, with an incredible amount of good input from all of them. The only one I'm disappointed in is the Council of State. I record that all parties here – but not the Council of State – see the seriousness of the situation. I hope that after a lot of good contributions from the position and the Workers' Party, you can now press the Council of State to act, and that it will not be like the Lofoten, where SV and the Center Party in a way pushed the others out. It's too important for that. Then I'll go a little bit further. I asked the Council of State a direct question – why in 2002 64 300 were adopted as the highest reindeer in West Finland, while almost 100 000 now – but nothing has happened. The only thing the council does is to make phrases where he accuses the undersigned of stigmatizing the reindeer industry. This rhetoric has the minister had all the way, from the problems in Finnmark started. I raised the matter at the beginning of November last year. Then they said that you would put down a sample to mediate. It was going to happen right away. From November until now, five months have passed. It's the quick work of the minister, so with all due respect, here's a little lack of action and the most talk. Then the representative from the Workers' Party also says that you have to see the loss figures in the context of several things, among other things. car and train traction. The figures I referred to relate to losses due to predators, and as far as I know, is not a train or car a predator, it's under other parts of the loss. In the case of losses due to predatory animals, payments have increased by nearly 50 pst. There's a lot going on with taxpayers' money. It's over 56 million. kr to pay the loss of reindeer. Obviously, this is also predatory issues. Then I also record that with the Center Party by power, you let the predators rule all over the country. This means that the taxpayers, the reindeer industry and the farmers have to take the bill. This is also proof that you are not capable of action. I also record that in July 2007 they sat down to look at the industry. We are now in 2010, and nothing has yet happened. Once again, it shows that there is a long way between action and will. Finally, I just want to thank you, and I'm asking the Workers' Party to press the Center Party here, so that we can get a solution. Without pressure from the Workers' Party, there will be no solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2349	Thank you so much for many nuanced articles, and thank you so much for those that I felt were not so much nuanced. I am pleased that we have received many articles and a good discussion. My point with my two posts was to stress that a lot has happened in recent years through the amendment of the redeployment law and through the financial instruments we have in the redeployment agreement. This industry has, as many have said, great opportunities, if, together with the industry, we manage these opportunities in a good way. I want to stress that NRL's leader, Sara, has stated that he is recording a change in the attitude of the youth in the reindeer business now. Now the weight and quality that apply is not the greatest possible flock. I also think that this is a good promise for the continuation. And when there are some people in this room who claim that we release everything freely in relation to the operation, I have to draw attention to the fact that there is a general roof of 600 animals to get under the reindeer agreement, which, in a sense, emphasizes that it is not free to get support for the operation you want. In recent years, reindeer operations have had a positive trend in income, and preliminary figures for 2009 show a continued positive trend. The main reason for the increase can be related to a still high slaughter yield, and not least to an increase in the price. Over the last few years, we have seen positive income developments in reindeer management that the instruments of the reindeer management agreement contribute to increased slaughter and value creation. But still, the average reindeer income is too low. For me, it is important that, in the future, priority be given to measures that contribute to the further development of income and welfare policy measures in reindeer management, in order to increase reindeer management to a level that is more consistent with comparable industries. So in this context, it's the reindeer agreement that's the central instrument. It is important to stimulate real market production and value creation, some of which have also underlined in their contributions today. Experience has shown that production-dependent subsidies have helped to increase the slaughter yield of pure in the last year and have contributed to increased value creation in industry. It is therefore important that future reindeer management agreements also stimulate increased slaughter and production through the production-based subsidies, so that the reindeer can be reduced to a sustainable level in all reindeer pastures. The last reindeer management agreement that has just been concluded places emphasis on just that. The agreement places great emphasis on measures that can contribute to increased withdrawals, and not least contributes to, as the representative Kristiansen also emphasised, that a major emphasis is placed on measures that can help to improve the implementation of seasonal slaughter and, not least, increased sales. I would like to stress that it is the industry itself that is responsible for marketing according to the reindeer management agreement. Finally, I would say that it is not right that the reindeer number in the last year has continued to increase. The last numbers we have are 10,000 fewer pure in Finnmark in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2362	So the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2378	The Bondevik II Government presented a Animal Welfare Communication and, after that, an Animal Welfare Act has also been adopted. I still think it is right to have a review here in the Storting of whether everything is as it should be in all sectors in relation to animal welfare. I want to start by saying a little about what I think is the basis for our attitude to animal welfare. For me, it's about respect for life, a fundamental respect for life. It's also about the degree of civilization: the way humans treat animals, says something about the degree of civilization in a society. It also says something about well-being and human vision, how you treat life around you. It's also important to say that animals have a self-esteem. Life has a self-esteem beyond the economics that animals can contribute to. And then I think it's important to say that animals don't have to be humanized in their needs either, but that animals have their needs like animals. I want to go through some of the sectors where I think you have special challenges today. One of the reasons I've formulated this interpellation was primarily the conditions in the fur animal industry. An agreement was reached with the fur industry under the Bondevik II Government to achieve an improvement in nutrition by 2012 both in the case of breeding and in the case of general supervision. The Food Authority came in 2009 with a report of 94 pst. by the farms operating with reefs and 71 pst. from the farms which were operating with a mink, received comments. So they got notes from a notified supervision. Networks for animal freedom detected offences or regulatory offences at all farms when they visited unannounced. I see that the Council of State has met the industry, but I have not seen that the Council of State has carried out any proper sanctions in view of the failure of the industry. I want to ask the Council of State: is the situation okay enough? Or does the Council of State support a liquidation in 2012? So I want to take up a point that is not so much discussed, and that concerns our pets. We now see a development in the pet industry, where there is a lot of money, and where you raise animals that you get sold for large sums. On some of these breeds it is derived from so strange, wrong things and deformations that we can experience dogs that are best liked in their race, but that can have so deformed breathing organs that they are almost unable to enter the circle to receive the price. We experience the same thing for cats, and the veterinarians warn us that in the horse field it is exactly the same. We see that there is a lot of money in this operation. You grow on so many strange things about animals that they're almost incapable of living with the mistakes they get at breeding. What I'm asking is whether we should impose jurisdictional requirements here for judges, whether we should certify those who are judges in this area, so that they actually know that when they judge a dog who is a winner and champion in an area, they also judge a dog on which it is bred, and which can have so much deformation that they almost don't have normal body functions, such as. breathing. Maybe you should guide breeders about what to raise, and maybe you should inform owners when they buy some of these hundreds, that they actually buy an animal that lives a very inferior life because it's bred on so many strange things that they almost don't have normal body functions. I think most of the owners want the best for their animals, but there's now a sport going on in this very thing, which makes many of us start loving the bastard – because that's what the bastard is. But there's so much money here that you might need to introduce some regulations in terms of what you grow. So to agriculture, there's been a lot of positive within agriculture in terms of animal husbandry. Much because we get to larger units, which also leads to better animal husbandry. But I'm very happy that the Council of State has put down a sample that will look at power within the food market, because I think that's very important. In the future, I think customers will choose the products that are actually good products, also for the animals. Today it's very difficult. Producers who want to prioritize animal welfare experience their products entering the same mill as all other products. By tracking, giving customers freedom of choice, giving customers information, I think they would have appreciated animal welfare. Another area that may be what worries me most about agriculture is poultry farming. Here I wonder if perhaps you should have contributed to the inclusion of several species – not just the production of one variety, as you do in Norway, and that you should make clearer driving rules to ensure animal welfare in that area as well. There are many organisations working in this area. Some work politically – and it is good that someone does – but some also work with practical work. I have e.g. See, animal protection here in Oslo, is using a lot of the membership quota to kill animals. They collect animals that live a terrible life out in the streets, for example, cats would use the membership quota that people have paid for the protection of animals to kill animals. I think it is important to value the voluntary effort made for animal welfare. It's a little pointless that this is something people should do in their spare time, when it's really about our whole life environment, that we shouldn't have too many animals that don't have owners, who are going to walk around in our urban environments, for example. When the animal welfare message was presented by the then Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim, one of the most cheerful points, related to circus animals – sail if he said that some of the worst reports he had from the authorities on animal welfare were related to circus animals. I believe that a debate can now be opened on which animals are actually suitable for circus animals, and that we should discuss the ban on some. Another area is the use of laboratory animals. The left is a research party. Getting completely away from the use of laboratory animals in research, I don't think we can do it. But I think maybe we should have set some limits on how strong and how long agony it should actually be allowed to expose animals to. We have recently had several episodes related to animal husbandry that can be defined as animal tragedy. Sometimes it's related to pure psychiatry, sometimes it's related to something else. What I see as a challenge is that we see here a enforcement limit between what is in some situations the responsibility of the Food Authority and what is actually the responsibility of the police in other situations. I don't think that the Food Authority's possibilities of calling out are entirely adapted, or similar, to the police's thinking about calling out. The enforcement of several incidents has been unclear, and the responsibility for whom to intervene, when it is obvious that someone should intervene, is unclear. Finally, I have to go back to what I started with, namely fur animals. When it comes to monitoring animal husbandry farms, it is announced that there will be supervision. If there are animals suffering, the Food Safety Authority will arrange for on-site killing. What I'm asking for – when we're going to assess whether fur nutrition is going to be allowed to continue – is the number of animals that the Food Authority actually kills on the spot. There's no report of how many animals it has fallen, and how many actually are killed there and then because it's so bad under the alert supervision. I think there are many things that are unclear in the fur industry. I hope the Council of State can clarify both sanctions and supervision here, and what demands are made – by the deadline of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2412	First, I would like to thank the representative of the Skei Grande for the interpellation. As Minister of Agriculture and Food responsible for Animal Welfare, I am concerned that animals should feel good. From a welfare perspective, Norwegian animal husbandry issues were addressed in detail through the work on the new Animal Welfare Act that came into force from the turn of the year. The investigation – the background to the legal work – has already started with the work done in connection with St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, on animal husbandry and welfare. The Storing Communication identified a number of areas where further investigations related to different types of animal husbandry were needed, from a welfare perspective. A number of necessary investigations have thus been carried out in the context of the drafting of the new Animal Welfare Act. This included, inter alia: studies of the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, of the Veterinary Mission Centre, of SINTEF and of the University of Environmental and Life Sciences. The new law is intended to take account of new knowledge that has to come, and transform it into appropriate and good legislation for keeping animals. I therefore have great expectations that the law will be a good tool to promote animal welfare. The law acknowledges that animals have a self-esteem, in addition to having value for human beings. There is a requirement for competence for all keepers of animals. Food surveillance is working on the development of regulations to clarify such requirements of competence. It is also important to point out that there is now a general obligation to notify the law, so as to facilitate the collection of lack of supervision and care, thereby preventing the development of animals. Animal Tragics are often associated with disease and personal problems in keepers, as the representative Skei Grande also stressed. In this context, health professionals have been given the right to be warned, so that it is possible to notify of possible animal diseases without conflicting with the obligation of professional secrecy on which they are normally bound. The animal welfare regulations will be updated as new knowledge of animal needs is established and factors reflecting their well-being. The setting of requirements for the keeping of domestic animals will require a balance to be made of what results in satisfactory animal welfare, while at the same time the framework must be such that it is possible to implement it in practice. In recent times, there has been a strong focus on fur husbandry, after uncovering unsustainable conditions in parts of the industry. I've taken this into account, and I've made it clear to the industry that if they don't clean up, the political support is at stake. I have also had several meetings with the fur animal nutrition, and let me be informed of the work done, and the follow-up they are planning to improve and follow up the animal welfare of the country's fur animal husbandry. I have made it clear that the industry is not fresh until it tolerates a critical look at its business every day. The main responsibility/defence line for animal welfare is in the individual plant, in the individual fur breeder – we must never make any exception to this. I believe that the industry will do its best to follow up on this. The Animal Welfare Communication also stated that fur nutrition faces a number of challenges that need to be addressed before the industry can appear to be generally accepted. The welfare of fur animals needs to be significantly improved in the future, compared to the current forms of operation. Following this message, the Food Safety Authority has been entrusted with the task of preparing a draft new regulation on the keeping of fur animals. In the mandate given to the Food Safety Authority, it was said that the regulatory proposal had to contain all relevant aspects in order to achieve satisfactory animal welfare in line with new animal welfare laws. It was also clarified that the work had to be based on the fact that fur industry is a district industry that is desirable to maintain. A draft new regulation is currently being consulted. The draft has taken up many of the advice developed by the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, together with other technical and scientific material. This is in line with the leaders of the new Animal Welfare Act, building on current expertise and taking into account new knowledge. The proposed regulation facilitates the substantial improvement of animal welfare for fur animals. At the same time, the proposed changes will entail additional costs and additional work for the industry. I am determined that we will have an up-to-date legislation to improve the conditions for fur animals, and I will address the specific design of the legislation after the consultation. As regards the supervision of animal welfare legislation, responsibility for this has been added to the Food Safety Authority. The animal protection subjects are maintained in order to protect the human body, give local anchoring and legitimacy to the work on animal protection. From now on, the topics are also organised as part of the Food Authority. This organisation is selected for a clean and efficient system. There is therefore no ambiguity today related to the responsibility of the authorities. The monitoring of animal welfare is a priority task for the Food Authority, and the Food Authority has also been given more tools in the new Animal Welfare Act to effectively monitor breaches of the legislation. The answer to the inter-pellant Skei Grande's question is therefore that I do not see today a need to restart a critical review of all animal husbandry in Norway. This is something which, in line with the new Animal Welfare Act, will be assessed each time it becomes relevant to change existing legislation, or to develop new legislation, in the light of new knowledge. The government is concerned with animal welfare and, through its extensive work on the new Animal Welfare Act, has facilitated the proper and sound treatment of animals. The new law provides a good basis for further work to ensure that animal husbandry is carried out within a sound framework, based on knowledge and knowledge of the animal’s behavioural needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2440	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am of the opinion that it is great that we have got this law, sail if we did not agree on all the points. I want to repeat some of the questions I had in the interpellation – which were not in the text, but which I had in my speech here – in order for the Council of State to have a chance to answer these when he has now responded to the challenges of the text. The first one goes on fur animals. If I'm going to replicate to it with fur animals, the challenge is to get reports on the table, so that we know the real situation when 2012 comes. I mean then, for example. there must be a clear record of the number of animals that are actually killed by the Food Safety Authority during supervision. That's a number I'd like to know. The other thing goes on with the pet. This does not violate the law as it is today, but it is clear that there is now so much money in the pet breeding industry that we see that the lack of competence of judges, for example. in competitions with pet animals have led to much of what is happening being pure animal abuse. You didn't think there would be any danger to that a few years ago. Today we see that it is. The veterinary association's report to me about the state of this field was very frightening. I hope that there is knowledge that the Council of State will also acquire, and that he will consider taking action. I think it's important to also lift this field. So to the concept of experimental animals. This is very regulatoryly regulated, but it is a clear challenge for the Council of State to look at whether or not we are. should have regulated in terms of how long-lasting pain, and how much pain you can expose animals to – not just that today we regulate quite strictly who is allowed to make experiments on animals. Then I also believe that there must be a clear limit between those who have an alternative to, and those who don't have an alternative to, their animal experiments. Today we see that technology has moved dramatically forward in terms of other ways of simulating the consequences of research. So those were my challenges. I repeat these for the Council of State in the hope that he will now have time to respond to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2455	I will then try to answer some of the questions that came up in the speech, so that I can also follow up on the answer that I gave to the written interview that we received earlier. Firstly, I would like to stress that with regard to the discussion on the Food Authority and the police, it has also been suggested that we establish a separate animal police force in Norway. To that I just want to stress that it is the Food Agency that is the animal police in Norway. What I stressed was that the supervision of animal welfare and the follow-up to animal welfare matters should be a high priority, and the Food Safety Authority has now been given more tools for effective follow-up to infringements of the Animal Protection Act, including: the possibility of depriving the right to have animals. It is also the case that both the Food and Drug Administration and the police can withdraw alerts. So I feel that there is no problem with the border between the Food Authority and the police, as I understood the interpellant suggested. In the case of pet animals, the issue of breeding and development in recent times with regard to breeding and the characteristics of animals then acquired, plus the knowledge of the judges. I just want to stress, to inform the interpellant, that the new law has requirements for breeding. It is a collaboration with Norsk Kennel Klub on the training of judges, and there the Food Authority and the Department have dialogue with them. So that area I think is well taken care of, although I also see that in some cases there are characteristics of some breeds, of some animals, which seem to be difficult or not very advisable to breed on. So finally, there was a question about fur animals. I understood it so that the interpellant was concerned that during the reported visit, it would be reported that any killing of animals that were injured or that were not in the condition they should be. I will have to take that point back to the department and look at it more closely, if there are no such statistics today. Unfortunately, I am not familiar with that, and I will come back to the interpellant with a more detailed answer to that question. Finally, in the case of laboratory animals, I would just like to stress that an alternative platform has been established using animals in procedures. I would just like to stress that the principles to be used in experimental animal work are the three Rs – which are well-known in Norwegian – ‘reduction, replacement and refinement’. This also means working on the experimental animal area to improve the situation for these animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2468	Animal welfare is well worth an interpellation debate. I would like to underline in the introduction that the Workers' Party is, of course, fully behind § 3 of the new law, which states: ‘Animals have intrinsic value regardless of their human benefit. Animals must be treated well and protected against unnecessary stresses and loads.» We want all handling of animals to be done with care and respect for the species of the animal. We in the Workers' Party are satisfied with the new Animal Welfare Act, which puts Norway in the forefront of animal welfare. However, it is necessary to be on the continuous search for improvements. The most important thing is to prevent animals from suffering. Preventive, awareness-raising activities are important information. Clearly, the owner is responsible for animal welfare. When the owner does not take sufficient responsibility for the animals, the public intervention must take place. When animals appear in the media, they often ask themselves, How can this develop? What kind of conscience and attitudes can people have, that lets this happen? There may be many answers. But when we dealt with and passed new animal protection laws in the last period, we discussed a lot of how this could develop without public intervention taking place in time. One of the reasons why this could develop could be the animal owner’s health problems, solitude, economic problems, etc. It may then be important that there is good communication between health professionals and the veterinary service/Matthew. Therefore, it is good that through the new law, we have received a warning right for health professionals about animal abuse or serious neglect. However, the Health Care Act has strong restrictions on professional secrecy. I may suspect that it is being practised somewhat differently. I think there are good reasons to look at this in terms of communication with other professional groups working towards a common issue. The obligation of professional secrecy must not prevent multidisciplinary cooperation in order to ensure dialogue that can prevent the development of animals. I do not think we are in the goal of this work, although I agree that we must now concentrate on the fact that the new law must come into operation and that the arrangements we have adopted must operate over time. But we have to keep focusing on the area, and be looking for improvements. When there is criticism, yes, we have to take it seriously and consider opportunities for improvement. This may include, inter alia: be necessary to improve the registration of animal welfare matters, develop indicators of animal abuse, etc. During the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, On animal husbandry and animal welfare, the Storting concluded that if the fur industry is unable to demonstrate significant improvements by 2013, it should be considered to end the industry. No batches reserved for this formulation. Scary images have been intertwined in the media of malpractice in fur farms of such a nature that it is totally unacceptable. I feel that the industry is now in a time of grace. If you don't end this, yes, it's over. I have the impression that the industry has taken this very seriously, and that it is now being cleaned up. Firstly, new regulations are now being consulted, and there is a clear view from the Food Safety Authority that this will improve. The new regulations provide for significant improvements in animal welfare for fur animals. In addition, the industry is working on a separate certification scheme to be verified by outside professionals, a scheme that goes beyond animal welfare in some areas than the draft regulation. The first farms are already certified as planned this year. I think this is promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2495	I don't think anyone in this room, or anyone else, is against animal welfare. We all want our animals, regardless of their breed, to have good care and care, including good food, nutritious food, good housing, veterinary assistance when required, enough light, space, etc. – in short, so that they can live under the best conditions possible. Good animal health is a prerequisite for good animal welfare, food safety and sustainable production. Norway has a good reputation when, for example: relate to the occurrence and knowledge of infectious animal diseases compared to other comparable countries. This is perhaps the most important quality stamp of Norwegian agriculture. But, it's a big butt. Almost daily we can read about animals that are mainly caused by human failure for various reasons. It may be that the owner has become ill and does not realize, or that others do not realize, that he cannot take care of his animals. There may be owners who are not fit to have animals, and that, for example, Food surveillance does not intervene in time, including: due to a lack of resources, or the Norwegian legislation may not be good enough. There may also be such things as that buildings where the animals live are not good enough and that the animals burn up. In 2009, there were 223 fires in operational buildings over a certain size in Norway — a figure that is approx. twice as big as just four years ago. In such fires often many animals die. There must be greater self-restraint in this area and the legislation must be tightened up. Having animals gives rise to a great deal of responsibility regardless of the number or type. The Progress Party says it is as simple as Norway’s need for strong animal protection. Persons who have been found unfit to keep and keep animals shall immediately lose their right to keep animals. Here I find some judges in such cases strange. For example, are you. disapprove of the right to have a type of animal, you may nevertheless have other types of animal. Here the sentence must be clearer; an animal is an animal regardless of race. Another thing that surprises me is that those who talk about animal welfare are most often those who defend predators, such as. ulf. In my district, Hedmark, there are relatively many of the farmers we have left, who have buffs as head or side income. It is, for example. after the Galven-tispa herrings in summer and harvest, none of these talking about the animal welfare of all the sheep and other animals taken by the predators. Often buffs are not killed immediately, but tormented over several days. As regards the specific fur animal nutrition, it is likely to also have an improvement potential. But I know that there have been many improvements in recent years here as well. The cultivation of fur animals began in North America in the 1800s and early 1900s in Europe. Europe accounts for approx. 70 pst. by the husbandry of the world's fur animals. In Norway it is approx. 350 fur farms. Most of these are small family-run units, which together with other income opportunities on the farm, or with income outside the farm, make it an annual income. These are important jobs for small districts. Fur husbandry is subject to strict national provisions in addition to EU recommendations. Particular attention is paid to the cage environment, hygiene, breeding, care and handling and feeding procedures. Fur animals also generally have good health. Furnace nutrition is also important as a taker of large quantities of waste and by-products from the food industry, such as fish processing and slaughterhouses. There is also minimal or no transport for killing, which is for other types of animals in production. Knowing that the number of slaughterhouses in Norway has been reduced from 28 to 14 in a few years, this says that animals are being transported longer than before. This increases the chance that something might go wrong. Back to fur animal nutrition. The fur industry developed in 2001 an action plan on animal welfare in cooperation with others. Norway is certainly the only country in the world that has this. But the Progress Party also says in its programme that we want a review of legislation related to animal welfare for fur industry with a view to improvement. Meg is also known to work in Norwegian fur industry with certification of Norwegian fur farms. This shows the seriousness of the industry. Finally, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the fact that an important case has been brought to the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2521	With the background of much of what has happened in the fur industry, it's not the least strange that the interpellant is concerned about it, and I perceive that there's some of the main message here. At the same time as I am concerned, I feel confident about what the Minister for Agriculture has said here, that we need to look at the implementation of the law gradually and not least at the new draft consultation that seems relatively strict. I think this won't put a rocket back, so at least speed in the industry, which is also developing itself, as others have said here, both certification schemes and other procedures to ensure its industry. For this is, of course, an industry that operates in the districts, which is run by small businesses, and that is exactly why I think it is important that the authorities also help them to get it sustainable, to say it that way. I think it's important, and that's why I think you should have a little bit more patience, even though the story suggests that you might have the impatience that the interpellant has. Then I want to address one of the challenges that the representative Skei Grande presented in her introduction, where she talks about the power investigation in the food market, and that good food products have a connection with animal welfare and animal health. There is no doubt that it has, and I think modern consumers will gradually be very concerned about this. We've seen that. We've even seen it in the world economy. When we've had outbreaks of infectious diseases worldwide, we've seen what effect it has on the world economy. The world's stock exchanges are raging when you see that something can happen to food production. This context I think is becoming more and more important, and in particular, I want to spend some time drawing the attention of the Council of State to the meddling of animals. If we are to have confidence that Norwegian-produced food is to be high-quality and produced in such a way that the animal itself has a good life and well-being, so that you also get a good product, you have to be concerned with the medication. The quality system in agriculture, KSL, has an important role to play. They set medical standards that control drug use, so that there should be no unnecessary treatment, and that there should be the lowest possible use of drugs in general, of course, especially antibiotics. But now there is a concern that the new standard comes with rules that allow farmers or animal owners to treat their own animals more than in the past, i.e. without the use of a veterinarian. I think it may be problematic because of the safety of consumers and, of course, also because of animal welfare. In the Animal Health Act on which veterinarians are bound, there are strict rules for helpers. That standard is in fact designed not only for consumers, not only for reasonable and good food in the Rema shops, but also for well-being, so that it should not be unnecessary medication and not wrong medication, thereby undermining the purpose of the legislation. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will include the least possible concern for this too. Animal welfare is important. Professional assistance for animal diseases should be central and consumers should be 110 pst. ensure that both animal welfare and the safety of quality food are maintained in such a way that we cannot question it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2534	That is an important question that the representative of Skei Grande raises. SV has long been the driver of better animal welfare. Our former parliamentary leader, Inge Ryan, made a strong mark in this area and made a great effort for animal health and animal welfare. It is positive that the Left engages in the issues, so that we get a good debate on this important topic. SV is concerned that all animal husbandry should be protected by animal ethics. Animal welfare must be based on recognition of the intrinsic value of animals as well as of their utility to man. Animals shall be treated well and protected against unnecessary stresses and loads. It is important to have legislation and control mechanisms that protect the animals, based on professional knowledge and based on what is in the animal's interests, as laid down in the Animal Welfare Act. SV has confirmed that we will work to strengthen animal protection, both in Norway and internationally. There is a work that still needs to be followed up, as there is new knowledge that allows us to increase animal welfare. It is important to ensure good supervision of livestock and to have clear lines of responsibility for control and sanctions. SV is concerned with strengthening the work to find alternatives to animal testing that causes animal suffering. The Norecopa organisation makes an important effort to identify and disseminate information on alternatives to animal testing. This is an important work that needs to be carried out. Norecopa and Norway’s research councils have also started to look at animal welfare among fish used as test animals. In fact, here we have quite major challenges in the future, because fish without comparison are among the animals that are used most in animal testing per. today. Many people think fish don't feel pain, but they do. The representative Skei Grande talks especially about fur nutrition. SV believes that so far the experience suggests that it is difficult to have a production of fur that ensures good animal welfare. Here we are on the line of the Norwegian veterinary association. All in 2001 they pointed out that fur farming poses major challenges for animal welfare, and last year, the association declared the following: ‘Day-keeping of fur animals is based on the holding of active predators in small netting cages. This mode of operation means that the animals are not satisfied with their natural behavioural needs. DNV has previously expressed scepticism for the fur animal population. Despite good intentions in the industry, it has been found that there are still major animal welfare problems in the husbandry. Therefore, DNV considers that the time is now ripe to assess the closure of all fur animal husbandry in Norway.’ On the basis of that information, which we cannot push away, we have in SV, based on the animal health situation, programmed that we will work for a ban on the production of fur animals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2552	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the inter-pellation, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Initially, I would like to point out that there has been a significant development of knowledge about the abilities and needs of animals in recent years. In the Centre Party, we are concerned that we should have up-to-date legislation to ensure good animal welfare in all animal husbandry. In the international context, Norway is well advanced in animal welfare. I would also like to point out that there are now requirements for the competence of keepers of animals in the new Animal Welfare Act, and competence means both knowledge and skills. The requirement of competence shall ensure that animals are adequately and professionally maintained and the Food Safety Authority is now working to establish regulations in this area. It is also important to point out that there is a general obligation to notify the law so as to facilitate the collection of lack of supervision and care, thereby preventing the development of animal trading services. Often, the worst animal abusers are associated with illness and personal problems and personal tragedies in keepers. The fact that health professionals now have a warning obligation will make it more attention from that team, and we have a much greater chance of catching up the tragedies, hopefully at an early stage. The Animal Welfare Communication concluded that fur nutrition faces a number of challenges that need to be addressed before it will appear to be generally accepted. The welfare of fur animals needs to be significantly improved in the future. The fur industry itself has also assured that it will clean up the unacceptable conditions that have been revealed and a new regulation on fur management is being consulted. This proposal facilitates significant improvements in animal welfare for fur animals. The proposal is based on many of the advice produced by the Scientific Committee on Food Safety and other technical and scientific material. I think the industry has taken this seriously, and I believe that this will improve the welfare of fur animals. All these measures just show that we have had a review of animal husbandry in Norway and that we have a continuous follow-up. The centre party is concerned with animal welfare, and we point out that through the work of the new Animal Welfare Act, the Government has facilitated the proper and sound treatment of animals. On this basis, the Central Party supports the view of the Council of State that there is no need to relaunch a broad, critical review of all animal husbandry in Norway at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2572	First, I want to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. For we have witnessed many cruel pictures from fur nutrition. Both the Food Authority and the industry themselves have taken hold, and we hope that they will succeed. The Christian People's Party will work to ensure that the improvement measures implemented by fur animal nutrition are continued, so that animal welfare in the industry is improved. We will also require documentation. Today there are about 350 fur farms across large parts of the country. It makes the industry an important district industry. All animal husbandry shall be based on good animal welfare and the killing shall take place promptly and without undue suffering. Breeding or biotechnological development which produces an individual without the natural instinct and peculiarity of animals must not be permitted. As the fur industry itself says, ‘Many have happened in the last year.’ To the fall, it is clear for certification of the first Norwegian fur garden. A certified furry zoo shall be a well-run furry zoo where regulations and professional requirements are complied with and where animal welfare is left in daily routines and activities. In order to be certified according to the industry standard of requirements, an external independent auditor is required to review the furry zoo in order to verify compliance with the requirements. That's good, and that's absolutely necessary. Fur animals are mainly a district industry which is run in connection with other livestock production and gardening in Utkant-Noreg. 80 pst. production is carried out in economically weak municipalities, where the production of fur animals strengthens the basis of nutrients on the garden, in order to ensure their construction. We have natural regulations for fur breeding in Norway. We're able to compete internationally, because we have a huge fish processing that produces by-product. We have climatic conditions that are ideal for fur management, and with their competence that enables us to drive fur farming in a good and animal-welfare manner. The environmental perspective in the industry should not be underestimated: about 80 pst. feed for fur animals is waste from the fishing and slaughter industry. But regardless of profitability and regional perspective, it is decisive that animal health is in the driver's seat. It is estimated that the industry will cooperate with the authorities to ensure this. In this context, I would also like to highlight the need for competence in the industry. Competence and ethical awareness must be at stake if we are to avoid conditions similar to those we received last year. The industry has a lot of work to do here. New requirements for fur animal husbandry are out on the ears. The draft regulation is based on St.meld. No 12 for 2002-2003 on animal husbandry and welfare, as well as research findings submitted by the Scientific Committee on Food Safety. The Food Authority believes that the proposed rules will improve animal welfare. I hope they're right, but we're waiting for documentation and thorough review to make sure that we don't have any of the conditions that were documented last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2589	I would like to thank you for the debate and for the eagerness of all the parties. I want to summarise with two challenges to the Council of State – I will limit it to that – and two comments. I think it's important to be aware that our well-being and our ability to produce food in an ethically good way is also a competitive advantage for Norway. If we manage to be good at it, I think we also have a competitive advantage over our food production. So my two challenges to the Council of State. First of all, it's going into the area that I've lifted in relation to my pet. I understand that it is working in relation to the organisations in the area. This field was unknown to me before I started working on it, and especially the Veterinary Society's alarm clocks here, I think I should also call the Council of State. So I'd like to challenge him to acquire knowledge in that particular area, because it was quite alarming to me when I got it. Secondly, our description of life has changed, and we see today that fish and bird, which before maybe were at the bottom of this ladder, are among the fields that are now most challenged. Special chicken production and fish farming are two major challenges in this area. – It was my two challenges to the Council of State. For the left, I have to say that the bells have probably been ringing for fur animal nutrition. They've probably used their chances, and I don't think what's going on right now is the decoration tapes on our robes are worth it. These are animals that have been kept for 100 years. Cats have been kept for some 8,000 years, and I don't know how long you've had cows, I don't know how long you've had sheep, but it's a completely different kind of drift compared to those animals. Then I have to say in the end that I am very much for animal welfare. I am willing to sacrifice very much for animal welfare. But to be so much for animal welfare that I'll be against cats taking mice, that gaupes take cats, and that wolves eat elk and sheep, I can't do that. I have to admit that believing that one is going to wind up the food chain, I can't stand out of my animal exposure to be too, sail if the Progress Party speaks for this today. For me, it's about animals being allowed to be animals, and the food chain is working. I eat meat, and they beneath me eat meat. That's how the system works, and it's a law of nature I don't want to cancel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2604	I too would like to thank you for this debate and for this interpellation. Initially, in my last post, I would like to stress the same thing as the interpellant, that our ability to produce food in an ethical, sound and sustainable way is a competitive advantage, and it is also fundamental in the work we are doing now to further develop Norwegian food policy. Then I just want to stress to the interpellant that in the case of pets, I mean the law that has just been passed and implemented, raises problems around breeding. But of course we will follow the advice we receive from the Food Safety Authority and, if necessary, from the Veterinary Association – and thus follow this further. In the case of chicken production and fish farming, etc., the Food Agency has a clear responsibility for follow-up, and I expect them to do so. Then I want to go back to the question that I was a little fuzzy on in my previous post. It is this way, in connection with the supervision of pet farms, that the supervision of the Food Authority is both alert and unannounced. It's not that it's just alerted supervision. We have – I have been investigated this time – not figures on killed animals, just the number of urgent decisions taken in connection with those inspections. I will go back to the Food Safety Authority and get hold of it – which I was also invited to do by the interpellant. In the case of fur animals, the new legislation on fur animals, which is in consultation, lays down the space and equipment necessary to enable and stimulate activity. I understand that in many parties it is that one has already decided in relation to whether one wants to maintain a fur nutrition or not, but my position and that of the Government is at least that we work a lot and hard to care for animal welfare and thus ensure that we can maintain the activity in the industry in the future. Then I want to stress that we are also working on and want to introduce so-called animal welfare indicators. Having such indicators is a work that both Norway and the EU sees the need to develop. I hope that in the future there will be results when more countries want to spend resources on it. With regard to the articles of the Fleet, there is a strict legislation on medication, and now a register for the use of medicinal products is to be established which facilitates the supervision of its use. It is also the case that the focus of the Food Safety Authority is on the use of medicinal products and the supervision of animal health professionals. Finally, I would just like to stress to Bredvold's posts that there are clear rules to prevent fires in the legislation and in the Fire Safety Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2625	That being the case, it is no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2641	The night until Saturday 9 September 2000, Tommy Buskerud from Rome in Akershus was hit by an incident that was going to ruin his life. On the way home from Barachi's pub on the Klöfta, the 28-year-old Busherud is brutally defeated by two young people at the age of 19 and 22. A 21-year-old stabs him in the back with a 25-cm-long kitchen knife right up to the handle of butter. Lying on the ground, Busherud was repeatedly brutally kicked into his head before the youth leaves him at the edge of the ditch, helpless and bleeding. A few hours later he was discovered lying in a roundabout of a randomly passing driver. This is one of many, very tragic examples of blind violence that we can read about in the newspapers every day. Very many in our society are subjected to severe violence, which in most cases comes as lightning from the clear sky. It also happened in the example that I've shown here. A violent episode like this completely changes people's lives and causes most people to have major social and economic problems. Many people feel that they are unable to follow up the work, and family life is breaking up. Doers are often young and totally unable to make up for themselves. In addition, the level of penalties for such crimes in Norway is too low. The result is that the victim of violence is left with the bill, that is. a loss of life and economic ruin. In the case of Tommy Buskerud, the perpetrator who drove the knife in his back was punished with nine months of imprisonment and sentenced to pay 30,000 kroner in retribution. The other two perpetrators were both sentenced to 15 days of conditional prison and fines of NOK 3000. I think most people in society would think that this is completely unreasonable. At least I do, and I also hope that the State Council of Storberget is of the same opinion. Today, Buskerud is divorced and a hundred percent unemployed. Daily he takes seven to eight prescription medications against severe pain in order to be able to get out of bed at all. Often he keeps the bed several days in a stretch. There are many issues that you can focus on in an interpellation like this, the themes are very many, but I want to focus on the need to have a liberal compensation for violence victims, and that we have flexibility in the system, so that it captures everyone who has been exposed to innocent violence. Tommy Buskerud has also become a victim of the rule of lawfulness of society. Because the attack occurred in 2000, he did not come under the change that occurred in the victim's compensation from 1 July 2001, where the highest compensation is 20 times the basic amount of the popular benefit. He has to deal with an amount limited to NOK 200000, while those who were subjected to violence one year later can get compensation up to SEK 1.4 million. kr. This shows some of the society's lack of shyness towards those who are exposed to another of society's shortcomings, namely the lack of security. Here, as responsible authorities, we should show a greater degree of liberalism, so that in the event of a legislative change like this, all those who, after the change, decide on their own matters should receive it at the time the highest possible compensation. Should the compensation be measured according to the situation and the legislation in force at the time when the case is completed? My answer to this is yes. Victims of violence must wait a long time for compensation to be paid, for example. because it takes a long time to bring the case before the courts and to have the application finalised by the Office for the Compensation of Victims of Violence. In addition, it is a major weakness that the amount of compensation is per person. Case and not for every victim of violence. This contributes to discrimination against victims of violence, as the Progress Party has pointed out in a note under the Ministry of Justice's budget for the current year. Many victims of violence have to spend large amounts in advance and put themselves in debt in order to obtain funds for the necessary medicines and treatment. Income is lost because you can no longer work and go on social welfare until you receive an application for disability benefit. The upliftment that comes from overwhelms and the public does not cover the expenses that have been incurred and those that will be paid in the future. The victim of violence is and will be the loser in the system. The perpetrator often escapes only with some scrapers in the form of replacement and low prison sentences. We know that the treatment of these matters will take many years. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the procedure can be speeded up and that the public services involved in dealing with these cases operate in an optimal manner. We have faced a situation of constant changes in the rules of the system of compensation for victims of violence by treating victims very differently, and it is unfortunate in a society where non-discrimination is otherwise central. I believe it is positive and correct that the level of compensation for victims has increased significantly in recent years, but we can ask ourselves whether the compensation is still at the right level. Appreciating the price of a ruined life is a difficult task, but it is obvious that the level is still too low. In addition, the level of punishment and compensation must rise significantly, so that the perpetrators have to take a greater part of the responsibility for the demise committed. I am also informed that in many reports of violence, the police often fail to inform about the rights of the victim and about the offer made by the public to victims of violence, including the rights and opportunities to apply for compensation for victims of violence. I am aware that a guide booklet from the Office for the Compensation of Victims has been prepared and that the website of the Office for the Compensation of Victims and also non-governmental organisations in this area can be used. That's good, but we still have to realize that there's still not everyone in our society who has the same prerequisites for finding out what their rights are and the ability to demand them. We need to be aware that for people who suffer considerable damage, both physically and mentally, after violence, guidance and assistance are particularly important. I hope that the Council of State against the police, the health services and others who face victims of violence early will clarify the importance of these being given help and guidance to assert their rights. I want with this interpellation and what I have said in this post to put the situation of victims of violence on the agenda and to have a debate here in the Chamber on this topic. My question is, to what extent is this a topic that concerns the Council of State Knut Storberget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2671	We will have the opportunity to get an answer to this immediately – the next speaker is the Council of State Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2674	I am very pleased with this debate. It's needed, because we often have a different focus when we're faced with this kind of criminal act. We often talk about perpetrators, punishments and the more policemen in it, and it's always high time to raise victims for crime. Being subjected to violence is a very heavy burden for many. It is therefore important for me to strengthen the rights and assistance offered to victims and relatives. The government has put in place a number of measures to protect those who are exposed to, or witnesses to, violence. Being a victim of crime can have serious consequences for individual health, maritime safety, security and quality of life. Crime victims in general deserve to be taken more seriously. Their position has therefore been considerably strengthened in recent years and, in particular, victims of violence have been the subject of increased attention within the police and in the emergency services. As of 1 July 2008, rights were abused and left to be strengthened by the right of several advocates for assistance. It is precisely to ensure the correct observation of the interpellant; many of these people need help to implement their rights. The prosecution instructions have been amended from 1 November 2009 in order to clarify the right to information in the course of the proceedings, and major changes have been made in the criminal proceedings of the offended, who, in conjunction with the right to an aid lawyer, put them in a completely different situation today than they had just a few years ago. If an assistant lawyer is appointed, the police shall appoint a separate contact person, including: for victims of sexual crimes, repeated or serious violence in close relations, trafficking in human beings, violation of a restraining order/visit and sexual mutilation. As was also the subject of the interpellant, in the autumn of 2009 a brochure entitled ‘Disadvantages and survivors’ was prepared by the Police Directorate and the National Attorney. This brochure provides an overview of the main rights of victims of crime. It also provides information on contact information about actors providing assistance to those who have been exposed to such crime. The police website – not only on the website of the Victim Compensation Office – will also provide a more comprehensive overview of the different rights of victims, with links to other actors. Funded by the Ministry of Justice, the Legal Counsellor for Women, JURK, who is also doing a glittering job, and the Crisis Centre Secretariat has prepared a brochure entitled ‘Legal rights and assistance for those who have been subjected to criminal acts in Norway’. This brochure is translated into a number of languages, including Braille, and can be downloaded. from the police website. Then the Support Phone for Crime Victims is established, which is a green number, and the service is a nationwide low-threshold offer for both men and women. The support telephone can help victims both through calls and through information on where to go. It is served by experienced advisers at the Crime Victim Advisory Offices and is open every day. These advisory offices are available today – and the government has been very concerned that we should expand – in 14 cities, with a good geographical spread, and I know they are doing an excellent job for many, not only in finding rights and having implemented rights, but also in providing practical support, among others. through the process that people are going through. These offices are invaluable in the work we are doing now to lift victims' rights and improve their situation. They may also provide assistance in the application for compensation for victims of violence from the State and may provide information on the course of criminal proceedings and provide support to witnesses. In 2007, the government presented a new action plan against violence in close relations, turning point. I do not hide that it is one of the most important documents I have ever been to provide. The plan will be implemented during the current period – 2008–2011 – and will include: in order to ensure the necessary assistance and protection for the victims and to break the spiral of violence by strengthening the provision of treatment to the perpetrator. By establishing up to now six Children’s Houses, the Government has ensured a more comprehensive and better coordinated offer to children who have been subjected to abuse. Children’s homes shall be a central hub between public bodies responsible for dealing with and dealing with cases of violence and abuse against children, and not just the criminal law trail. We will therefore this year open another Barnehus in Stavanger, and Ålesund will be on the road during the period. I hope and believe that the assistance available today, and the attention the police and other support apparatus now have to care for victims of violence, ensure that the individual receives good follow-up. I also believe that there is good and easily accessible information about what offers are available to follow up and help the individual further – which I have been looking at in the past. But I want to follow developments carefully, because the interpellant has points with regard to the problems people have in a vulnerable situation, to take part in the image of the right surrounding them. But there is reason to point out that much has now been done to ensure that victims of violence are properly cared for all the way. So a little bit about the level of compensation for the victims. After all, the government has not been on the lat side of the issue of raising the level of compensation for the victims of violence. Although a life will never be replaced by money, and an injury will never be fully compensated, it will often feel as if you are getting too little when trying to replace something irreplaceable. However, compensation may help to prevent the victim or the dependant from facing economic concerns as an additional burden. Where the perpetrator has a poor ability to pay, compensation for victims of violence is a proper measure. The measurement of compensation for victims of violence follows the general right to compensation. This means that the financial loss suffered by the individual is initially to be replaced in full, however, so that for the part of the compensation for the victims of violence a limit is set on the amount to be covered by the public authorities. Additional responsibilities may be assumed by the person concerned. In order to improve the situation of the shipwrecked sea and the survivors where the compensation is split between several, the maximum level of compensation for victims of violence, from 20 G to 40 G, was doubled for claims incurred from 1 January 2009. This is a significant increase. This has resulted in nearly all victims of violence being fully compensated for their economic and non-economic losses as a result of their being subjected to violence, through the compensation of victims of violence. However, I have registered that some victims of violence believe that they have not been able to cover their entire loss. This may be related to the fact that not the entire loss was documented at the time of application. If the damage has become more extensive than initially assumed, additional compensation may be applied for. The Office for the Compensation of Victims is now informed of this in its decisions. The Victims Advisory Office may assist the victims who so wish in promoting such an application. So a little bit about the issue of the changes made in this legislation. It's quite true, as the interpellant says, here we've actually experienced a lot of changes in recent years, and I hope the interpellant notices that it's moving towards more substitution and better replacement basis. But that challenges us by the fact that some of these issues actually have to limit when these new rules are going to apply. In 2001, the compensation scheme for victims of violence was legalised. The rules were more closely linked to the general rules of the Law on Compensation for Damage and the maximum compensation was increased from NOK 200 000 to NOK 1 million. NOK – 20 G – and, as I said before, 40 G from 1 January 2009. The reality is that, at the time of the law, victims of violence were given the right to significantly more compensation for damage caused after the law was enacted. One place has to be a legislator – and I perceive it so that here in Stortinget you have largely also agreed on it – to find out when this will start to apply from. Should we be able to develop a good system of compensation for victims of violence also for the future, I think it would be almost impossible for us if any change were to apply to all previous claims. My point in this is that in recent years the compensation for victims of violence has improved considerably, and there have been rules that make it possible, at the same time, not only to provide greater compensation, but also to embrace a wider group. The fact that you, for example, giving rights to children who have been subjected to violence in the sense that they have witnessed violence is very important. The fact that in the debate on victims of violence and crimes such as them have also chosen to extend the limitation periods, especially for children who are victims of sexual abuse, is also crucial. As the representative points out, it is important that we have a good and well-functioning compensation system for victims of violence. I am closely following developments in this area, and for the time being I am considering, among other things. whether there is a need for further amendments to the Law on the Compensation of Victims, in particular as regards matters of limitation, in relation to children who are subject to violence. Changes that can make the procedure more effective and speedy will also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2716	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think he had many good points in his post. I don't criticize what the government has done in this area so far. It's gone in the right direction. But the question is, are we still doing enough for those who get their lives destroyed completely innocent of completely unforeseen events? There, as a society, we have to take on a shared responsibility, so that these can live as good a life as it is possible to do after such an event. I record that the Council of State mentions a number of things that he believes he has contributed to. It's positive. The issue concerns this with legislative changes, as many have been misinformed by these legislative changes. When we make these kind of changes that matter so much to people, where the amount first goes from NOK 150 000 to NOK 200000, but then a huge jump of NOK 1.4 million and then another doubling of it, it's clear that this is going to be very unreasonable for those who have come on the wrong side. We have to assess that. So this is what I also mentioned, that in cases where there are several victims of violence involved, the amount of compensation per. case and not per person. It's unreasonable, because it's the people who get their lives ruined, not a group. You're treated here as a group and not as individuals. I wish the Council of State could be somewhat more responsive to these people and consider a change. Now the Council of State says that he assesses several changes in the system of compensation for victims of violence, but he says nothing about this being an ongoing work in the department, and whether he plans to get to the Storting relatively quickly with changes. But he should be able to answer whether these points that I have now pointed out are something he will look at in that case. I think a lot of police stations and perhaps health services are doing things with regard to guidance here, but I would like the department to contribute to an increase in the police's duty to guide them when they get into cases of violence victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2729	I would like to thank you for the honour of our support, and that is where we agree. And in this field, we agree on a lot of the changes that have actually been made. But there are a few dilemmas in this that we, as the proposers of new laws and the proposers of budgets, and the Stortinget as the legislator, should be involved and contribute to, which I want to raise. If we go into a line where all the changes that give more rights, more well-being and more economic benefits, are automatically going to have full retroactive effect, I'm afraid it will be very difficult to get to those changes, no matter who has to sit in government. Realities will be reported quickly then. First of all, it's a very economic question. But I'm not quite convinced that it will be beneficial that very old, decided and settled matters, whether it be violence or other things, should be opened every time you make a change. So I ask for understanding that when you want to be offensive in this field, you sometimes have to also accept that there has to be a limit to when the change applies from. With regard to the issue of more people who are subjected to violence but who are treated as a group, as the interpellant claims, one of the main reasons why we have chosen to make such a big leap in the maximum framework for compensation for victims of violence, is to address that issue. The fact that you just opened up, as I also said in my post, that you get twice as much to raw about, helps more and more people get the full amount of what you are entitled to, based on normal claims, not only in terms of the financial loss, but also in terms of upliftment. I would also like to stress, and I think that perhaps the Progress Party in particular agrees, that it is also important to point out the responsibility of the responsible person, so that where there is the ability to pay, it should be very much ensured that it is the person who has committed the crime, who must also remedy the damage, among other things. by paying compensation. I would also like to point out that in addition to the compensation scheme for victims of violence, we must not forget that the ordinary measures include: in the health and social sector, there is still a long way to go, without any limitation or limitation, so that people can get help. We cannot leave all our lives and futures on the basis that the compensation for the victims of violence will repair everything. Society must be there with other instruments as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2740	It is a great burden for people to be subjected to violence, assault or threats or to witness that some of their closest relatives are subjected to violence. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that the victims be taken seriously and receive the assistance and upliftment that they are entitled to. I want to commend the representative of Kielland Asmyhr for travelling an important interpellation debate that also gives us the opportunity to put the victim in the searchlight. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Red-Green Government promised to improve the compensation mechanisms for victims of violence and crime and their relatives. And there is reason to stress, as the Council of State has also done, that much has been done just to strengthen the victims' rights. The Victim Compensation Scheme was introduced in 1976 as a cheap scheme and was legislated in 2001 as a right regime. In 2007, the right to compensation for victims of violence was extended. Children who are witnesses to violence, the survivors and the siblings of the victims of murder and people who are injured because of serious threats were granted the right to compensation. The notification requirement was liberalised and a specific limitation rule was introduced for children and young people that it should always be sufficient for the application to be made before the victim reaches the age of 21. For children who experience violence being perpetrated in their own homes, and mother, father, or sibling being beaten or threatened, it can have great consequences, and security and trust can be put on a serious test. I am therefore particularly pleased that the rights of children have been strengthened in recent years. In evaluations by the Ministry of Justice to see how the Act on the Compensation of Victims works in relation to the previous regulation, the figures show that the status of victims has been strengthened following the adoption of the legislation in 2001. The admission rate has increased. The same applies to average payments and the total payments made under the scheme. It's positive. The interpellant is at the level of compensation for the victims, and like the Minister of Justice, I would like to point out that the maximum amount has doubled, from 20 G to 40 G. At the same time, we are painfully aware that a financial compensation for the abuses that have been suffered cannot remove or cure the pains and sufferings that a victim suffers. But financial compensation could help to make everyday life a little less difficult for the victim, and at least ensure that victims do not get an additional burden of economic concern for the future. It is important that the time taken to deal with claims is as short as possible. In 2007, measures were adopted to reduce the duration of proceedings. Despite this, we are not at a satisfactory level in terms of treatment time today, and it is therefore positive that the Council of State here today says that he will consider several measures just to get more effective treatment. As the interpellant and the Council of State have been involved, it is absolutely essential that the victims be informed of their rights and opportunities. I am pleased that many measures have been taken to strengthen the information, and I hope that with this debate – and also later – we are able to keep a constant focus on the victims of violence and the compensation and support they receive after violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2759	In the request decision No: 101 for 2002–03, the Stortinget decided to have a full review of the law and its practice. It has happened – almost – over the last seven years. Some believe that it has not been a full review, we can discuss that, but a lot has been done. Since 2003, the law has been amended quite extensively twice. We're now in a field where I once again want to praise the County Council. There is a reason why the book ‘Bjornen sleeping’ was published, where there were many important and valuable contributions to an important debate. If not, the Council of State has got it along: at least he has full support from the Right and the whole Storting in the job he is doing with focusing on an area that has not had the focus it deserves. It deserves praise from the Council of State and the government parties. Some of the most important things that have changed, and which I want to have even more pressure on, concern children and being exposed to or witnessing violence in close relationships. One has compared what it is like for a child to experience war versus violence in close relationships. And what you see is that war -- it's terrible to say it -- almost feels less serious, because then you sit together in a bomber room and talk about what happened, while if a child has experienced and witnessed violence in close relationships, children are so loyal that they might not tell you about it. They're sitting with it inside of themselves. It says something about the perspective we have to have in relation to children who either experience abuse or violence or are witnesses to it, that they are also experts at distorting it for very many years. That's why the Right is very happy that the Council of States will look further at the rules of limitation, because there we still get a lot of requests. It is important that, in the debate, we do not start to discuss whether 50 000, 100 000, 200000 or 250000 kroner determine whether or not to value people – just as in the case of the justice system. What this is essentially about, is being seen and heard and taken seriously. Very many of the frustrations that are coming are not necessarily due to getting NOK 30,000 more or less, but it is the feeling that the auxiliaries are taking you seriously. I'm very pleased that the Council of States, like the interpellant, is adding a very broad approach to this, because we still have great challenges in relation to how, for example, we have a very wide approach. Nav handles people who, for various reasons, struggle with their psyche afterwards. Are there prejudices against people who have been subjected to abuse and violence – how they deal with everyday life? Are Nav case handlers able to get into the situation you're in, considering whether you might consider disability pensions? Is Nav able to take this kind of thing seriously? And employers: For those who have experienced that kind of thing, it's not something that gets lost with a victim's allowance, it's something that you go with all your life, and then the question is whether the employer has such openness to his employees that he is able to include people in the workplace. And in school, how are the school routines to include people who have been subjected to violence and seen it? Is that bullying? Is there openness about it, so that classmates become co-players instead of opponents? Unfortunately, child protection is not an expert on violence. Had it been so that child protection had worked as it should, we would probably not have had as many applications afterwards for compensation for the victims as you have. This is a very broad picture, but I perceive that the Council of State and all of them at Stortingen are concerned that we have to do something about this. It's a good starting point that we don't use this unnecessary party policy, but actually discuss the width of it. I intend to raise a few points that have not been affected about violence. One is a very topical matter. It's not a matter for which the Council of State has constitutional responsibility, but it's close to the portfolio, and it's about the country's crisis centres. There are very many municipalities and crisis centres that are concerned about the new crisis centre law and its enforcement when transferring responsibility to municipalities. Crisis centres shall also facilitate the reception of children and adults with a different ethnic background. There are major economic, competence and problem challenges. So if the council doesn't comment on it, I hope he takes with him the concern that now comes from a lot of municipalities, organisations and crisis centres that the transition period you have is very small. That's right-wing warning. Then to the children's houses. We've discussed that many times. It's – let's say – an'real-born child'. There are a lot of fathers and mothers. In any case, there are a lot of people who have contributed in different ways – there is a large family who have contributed to children’s homes. But the Council of State must keep an eye on those responsible for implementing this. Because even though the Council of State is very pleased that more children's homes have been established than promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, there are considerable practical challenges to some of the children's homes that still have to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2778	The last life-cycle survey, which started in 2007, indicates that in Norway we now have about 165 000 rape episodes every year. This is equivalent to 450 rape episodes every day of the year. It means great human suffering for those who are subjected to violence, their immediate family and circle of friends, but also for society to suffer harm. Of course, being a victim of violence has individual consequences. Many are doing just fine, others are losing their grip altogether. The tension is great – from getting headaches that pass after a couple of days, to becoming disabled for the rest of your life and becoming dependent on the help of others. Many lose concentration, work capacity is reduced and quality of life is lost. The fact that children are witnesses to violence could have great consequences. The growth of children can be harmful, they can lose many opportunities in life, which can affect their future and opportunities for good education and a bright future. It is therefore extremely important that society takes violence seriously. For us in the SV and the Government, four main areas are important: how we can prevent violence, how we can investigate violence and punish violence, how we can break the spiral of violence and how we can support victims of violence. It is important to focus early on peaceful conflict resolution versus violence when we disagree. Today we teach our children in kindergarten how to sort food residues from plastic. We believe it is at least equally important that our children learn to resolve conflicts without using violence already in kindergarten and school. I am very happy that the National Association for Victims of Violence travels around schools etc. in Norway and carrying out preventive information work on violence and abuse against children and young people. I would also like to highlight the important work done by the Crime Victims Advisory Offices. We know that there are a good many young men who are subjected to violence from other young men in a drug-induced condition. Then it's important that we restrict access to alcohol. This applies to the whole, but also to the donation of alcohol at the outdoors. The government has now put forward a proposal to consult on limiting the hours of outpatient night shifts. SV believes that it will limit the use of violence and release badly needed police resources, which will benefit just victims of violence. Then the police can use the resources to investigate more quickly, so that the victims of violence get help and compensation much faster than today. I hope that the rapporteurs will support this proposal when it comes to Stortinget. Exploring and punishing violence quickly has a role to play in reducing the extent of violence. Once again, I would like to point out that we from the Government have strengthened the police, but there can be an even better job here, and then, among other things, will. this Article shall apply. This government has put violence and abuse, and in particular violence in close relations, on the agenda. Unfortunately, when a human being is subjected to violence, society cannot remove the pain and suffering. Neither can society replace a caregiver or a person who is happy. However, society can provide for the victims and for the survivors, so that they do not have financial problems as well as violence and the missing. We have extended the system of compensation for victims of violence, including: by giving rights to compensation for the victims of violence to children who bear witness to violence, to the survivors and to the siblings of victims of murder and to persons who suffer personal injury as a result of serious threats. This is an important change. Threats of violence can seriously harm children's psyche, health and mental development. For example, for a child: a threat as dangerous as the actual practice of violence. The government has also doubled the maximum level of compensation for victims of violence from 20 G to 40 G. I'm very happy that we have a government council that spends so much time and commitment on this. The signals are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2793	I, like several of the previous speakers, would like to take special account of the supplement that came into the Act on the Compensation of Victims Section 1 in 2007, which respects the situation and rights of children in the event of violence against a related person. As more people have been inside, it cannot be stressed strongly enough how deep the wound sets and what painful memories it creates in children. Too many will carry this as a heavy burden over the rest of their lives, and not least it creates insecurity in a child's life that loved ones are thus subjected to violence and abuse. In these cases, the compensation for victims does not in itself solve the difficult situation for the children concerned, nor does it remove the bad experience they have had. But this part of the Victim Compensation Act is nevertheless important, because in the Right's view it is important that the children be seen and heard, and that we take them seriously by society. Furthermore, it is also important, from our point of view, that with this addition to the law, society is obliged to follow these vulnerable children up, and it demands the auxiliary care. I would also like to stress that it is important, as part of the follow-up to a child who has experienced violence against loved ones, to learn that violence itself does not solve any problems, but that violence only creates new problems. Although the compensation itself does not relieve children's difficult experiences or the deep and painful memories they have created, in our opinion it is nevertheless an important platform for children to have to deal with the situation and not least to get on with life in the best possible way. Like others, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the topic for debate, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for the job he and his department have done to put this important theme into a system in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2806	Victim compensation is compensation provided by the State to victims of criminal offences that violate life, health or freedom. Known examples of it have been raped and other abuses. You can get compensation for a victim even if abuses are not punished or convicted for the rape. This may, for example: be applicable where the criminal proceedings are instituted because of the lack of sufficient evidence. Evidence in criminal matters is subject to stricter requirements than in the case of compensation. That's why. You can get compensation even if you don't know how to cross-over. This is where we are at the heart of the matter. For it is the person who is subjected to violence and who is entitled to compensation for the victims, who must have the focus. It is the person who, in the case of victims of violence, has to have financial help to get out of the difficult situation that often arises. In order to have an optimum effect on the compensation of victims, it is important that it be liberal and that it be paid quickly. The public takes the additional responsibility of ensuring the financial security of victims of violence for extra expenses and expenses, which too many may be unable to cope with without such compensation. It is important that compensation for violence also compensates for the difference between poor and rich in such situations, nor should it be the case that only those who can afford special and expensive insurance cope with such a situation. But faster treatment, better follow-up and readjustment of the maximum level of victims of violence in order to be able to use this in the most costly cases, I think it may be necessary. An increase from 20 to 40 times the basic amount is good, that's what the government should be bragging about. However, there are many cases where the maximum amount does not cover the lifelong cost increases that some people get. This, together with an even stronger focus and a stronger follow-up to the victim, not only by offenders — of course, there should also be some focus on overlaps to avoid repetition — is also profitable for society, as well as being important for the victim of violence. As has been said here before, the experience of being taken care of and the experience of receiving their rights is important for the rest of the life of the person concerned, along with fast treatments. Of course, the police have to finish their work first. Increased compensation for future losses will be an important tool to contribute to fewer new people in social benefits, social security and other areas. Then it's the focus on children. A lot has already been said here. Children's home is an incredibly important and right bet. There's going to be a lot of praise left for the government, it's a very important area. The arrests that have been made around the compensation of victims of violence, I think there is also agreement in the opposition and government. But I think we can do even more in the direction of focus and support for victims of violence already in a very early phase. I think there is a broad consensus that this is both possible and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2816	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the Advancement Party because they have been involved in victims of crime over the years. That's what they're supposed to have. Secondly, it is a pleasure for me, who in 2007 was the case rapporteur for the amendment to the Victim Compensation Act, that there is so much praise to get for the changes that have been made. That was also the case in the 2007 debate, so it was not surprising. Secondly, I am also very confident that the sitting Minister of Justice is the right man who always has an alert look at possible changes to make that law even better. It is a great commitment to the weakest in our system – when it comes to justice – from the Minister of Justice, so I am absolutely sure of that. I believe that the approach to the debate on the law on compensation for victims of violence should really be, from any political party on the Stortinget, that it is as few as possible to take part in using it. By that I mean that the fewer people who use it, the better work we do politically. That means we have to prevent the violence, we have to prevent 165 000 victims in 2011. It must be the overall political objective of any party. Then my praise stops, for example. The party of progress. Over the years, we have now debated how to punish, how to compensate for damage. There is the Progress Party often very active, and gladly of those who want the toughest and longest punishments and pay the most money to the victims who have been subjected to violence. As I said, it is to this extent commendable. But when it comes to preventing people from becoming victims of violence, I have to say that what comes from the Advancement Party is of little joy to those people. In 2007, there was a roll-out of the action plan on drugs in the municipality of Oslo, just to give an example. As it was sent out as a consultation proposal, it looked almost like a food policy plan that facilitates increased alcohol supply in the city. The plan was slaughtered by Vice-Police Commissioner Roger Andresen, who replied on behalf of the Oslo police district, I would call it. There were clear recommendations from the Oslo Police on a number of points in the plan that were sent out on behalf of the City Council, on changes that should be made in the plan to prevent us from getting more victims than is most necessary – I kept saying – in Oslo City. Having the victim's perspective before it becomes a victim, I think it's also very useful to analyze how to prevent violence. Violence has many faces. One of the things we hear most about is what happens in public space, which can be easily addressed in terms of public instruments – it is just to dry up the debate on how to facilitate drug use in public space. There, I believe, the Progress Party is largely failing consistently and all the time. It's a debate that you don't want to go into. In the last few years, some policy on the alcohol levy side has been changed, but the level of alcohol tax relief is now being proposed. Besides, it's nice. It's an important perspective in terms of violence and victims of violence that very many of them here are those who are not being heard, because there is no violence against them in the public space. You can't get to them, you can't get to them. They go home and are subjected to violence day after day. For very many of these women and children, the compensation for violence is not a good solution anyway, for very many of these women and children may not break the relationship, or you don't dare break the relationship, you don't dare to indicate that it's a problem. These too deserve the attention of all political parties. There I believe that the Progress Party has a rather funny approach. It was so well expressed last week when the Progress Party again focused heavily on victims of assaults, where men of foreign origin were perpetrators. That's 20 pst. by the victims of the rape in Norway. Relationship rapes relating to 80 pst. by the victims, we hear nothing about the Progress Party. I wish that the involvement around the victim's perspective from the largest opposition party soon changed the focus to make it more important to prevent and prevent more victims than to repair afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2836	It must be fun to be the Council of State and come to Stortinget a rare time and get as much praise as he has received in this debate. I hope the Council of State is able to carry it beyond the evening. I would like to thank you for the debate. There's been a lot of good posts here. It is good to note that in such an important matter as this, the Stortinget is unanimous in the view that offensive policies should be adopted in this area, and we must have good, liberal arrangements that allow victims to live as well as possible after they have been subjected to violence in their unscrupulous lives. However, in this debate, I have focused on some points that I hope the Council of State will take back to the Department and include as moments in the assessments that he obviously now makes clearly in view of making further changes to the scheme. I mention the situation for those who are subject to regulatory changes. This does not apply to matters that have been decided. This applies to those who have been subjected to violence at one point in time, and the change occurs before they have their case settled. That's where the unfairness is. Of course, matters that have been dealt with have been processed. The second is the unfairness of the amount of compensation per person. case and not per victims of violence. Here we can imagine examples where there are many victims of violence in the same case, where the amount of compensation, even at today's level, can be relatively small in relation to what is needed. So the state council said something that I totally agree with, that where the perpetrators can settle for themselves, it's important that they do it and take their share of the bill. But then, as legislators, we have to make sure that the courts do their job in pronouncing damages that people see as reasonable. We need to tighten up police – and probably health services too – the obligation to provide guidance to victims of violence, and we need to see if the level of compensation is high enough. The representative André Oktay Dahl had a good point with regard to the treatment of these people by other public agencies. The representative Breen addressed issues here that can contribute to a major debate in itself, but I believe that the representative Breen, as the Council of State, has registered that it is the Progress Party that has the most offensive judicial policy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2855	The last thing I'm going to do, the evening will be too long to say it like this. I'll do the rest of the evening and maybe over a longer time perspective. What's important in this is that the interpellant and all of us are able to tell political Norway and the population how important it is that we are now able to focus on other areas where we can meet people who are at risk of crime, than just in the police and prisons. It is absolutely necessary, because one of the reasons why victims of violence have been voted upon has been that we have believed that the solution has come when the sentence of punishment has become enforceable, and when the compensation is over. But what we're experiencing is that -- I was saying -- that's when the problems actually start, especially for the minors. So I have to say that if we really want to thank those who are exposed to crime, it is this kind of debate that is needed, and that is why I am responsive. That is also why I believe that the interpellant takes up – and I believe that it is a good distinction he makes in his closing post – that the settled matters we have to leave behind, but we need to have a discussion about those who are being treated, is a good point. That's a good input that I'm going to take with me, and also the other points that he raises. It's important. At the same time, I would like to point out that what the representative, Octay Dahl, points to, about the wider fate of crisis centres, deserves the attention of more government councils than the one that is constitutionally responsible. It is not for nothing that the Ministry of Justice has been very concerned that we should get the crisis centre offer legalized, and that we should get the funding mechanism that is now there, which is much better than what we've had before. But it's not just because we see that we're discovering more of the crime by getting the crisis centers on the ground early -- it's important places where evidence actually gathers -- but of course for us to get a civil trail, where people are going to get help, no matter how long the punishment is going on. That is why this is an unusually important debate. The debate on the functioning of the children's houses is also important. We must not settle for establishing children's homes, and then it is done. There's really very exciting experiments we're doing to get more civil tracks into the criminal justice court, so it's going to be followed closely. I therefore thank you for the debate. I believe that we need this debate, and I also believe that this debate is an absolute basis for looking at possible improvements in the arrangements. We'll do that. I also believe that the debate has helped us to become acquainted with both the dilemmas and the limitations of the system we have. But what must be the conclusion is that here there is impatience in all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2870	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2886	When we dealt with the paper on criminal law, the government joined the main lines of this – yes, in fact, all parties agreed that, for example. Prison should be a pioneer project for a new way of thinking, even though we have recently seen that not everyone has been as hard-cut in the media as it is, and even though the drawings of prison and budgets were not exactly unknown to any of the previous members of the Justice Committee or some parties. This interpellation is not raised because the Right is opposed to all the Council's thoughts on criminal care, but because very many of the thoughts that we stand together do not seem to be realized in relation to some of the big words we see in some press releases and media insights compared to how some people experience the situation in the field. There is a need to take this discussion into the main hall, as it is not satisfactory that the Storting as an organ knows less and less about what is really happening. Some of the questions you raise are considered black paint, and in many ways you're set to deal solely with information that reminds you a little bit more about campaign notes. The Minister of Justice had an important goal. It was removing the nesting cows. He has also repeatedly highlighted the excellent achievement of this government in the field of criminal justice: the criminal service has been committed to and has delivered. The question now is what price and what has been delivered. The Professional Association of Criminal Services describes the situation as follows in articles in different media and in its own KY-sheet: ‘It is true that criminal justice has been delivered. Governments have cynically exploited the members of the criminal community to achieve their own policy objectives. Loyally and with commitment, the job added has done well in the hope that they have contributed to a better and safer society, and in the hope of getting a better working day. They've accepted to work for free, they've accepted to work understaff, they've accepted to work with unskilled people, they've accepted to work in old buildings that are dangerous to health, they've accepted a working environment that's far below the standard that you can expect Prisoners are proud of their jobs, they put society's security ahead of their own welfare, they added their whole heart to deliver good criminal care to the best of society. [[...]] [[...]] In its reign, the Storberg has used the Criminal Service to gamble with the security of society. Criminal services have been asked to take more and more chances of transferring prisoners from closed to open prisons.’ In many prison institutions, per today, the number of unskilled and temporary workers is alarmingly high. The reason must be assumed to be bilateral, accessible to skilled prison officials and the difference in pay between skilled and unskilled. At present, an institution will be able to save substantial wages and salaries by using as much unskilled as possible. The Article shall continue as follows: «The Council of State is guilty of the death of the profession of the century! Now the next day has arrived. [[...]] The price of simple solutions is getting high. We have the largest custody facilities of the time and we are well placed to build a new settlement queue. With prisons in the process of collapsing due to lack of maintenance, more efficient and numerical police, better technology, more international crime, too few skilled prisoners, admission of too few aspirants to prison school and an imbalance in the criminal chain, this reality will probably come back to the state council as a boomerang [[...]] This is, of course, formulated by an employee organisation, but much clearer can not be expressed what the situation is now felt to be in large parts of the criminal justice system. On its side, LO-bundet Norsk Fengsels- og Friåmsorgsförbund, NFF, writes in a note from Federal Director Bjørkli to the regional and local trustees in the NFF the following: NFF ‘desires a reduction in activity in 2010. In particular, it is desirable that programme priority be strongly reduced or suspended, and that work on future plans, individual monitoring and the contact management system be reduced as individual contacts are highly labour-intensive. [[...]] KY also states that high capacity utilisation needs to have consequences for content and activity’. And on the other hand, The ‘central government’ – i.e. in the NFF – ‘requires that local and regional associations follow the same line as connected centrally. We are asking that the forthcoming discussions on the distribution of the budget be linked to the confidence of the elected representatives, who propose that the activity be adapted to the budgetary framework, i.e. significantly reduced. It is important that these proposals come forward with: [[...]] This is a very serious description. The NFF says that criminal custody is in crisis. The question of an overall increase, a majority government and a state council is then: what is to be done now, not least if the common objectives of the Criminal Service Communication are to be achieved? On 13 November 2009, the members of the criminal service strike to show their dissatisfaction. They pointed out that every fourth member of staff in prison does not have a level of education and that admission to etat training is actually reduced in relation to the need. Right-wing fears, like them, that in a short time settlement queues will start to increase again, that the security around employees and prisoners will be reduced, and that the maintenance capacity – despite the opening of Holden prison, for which we are all in favour – will continue to be demanding. In addition, many volunteers in the field feel that they are not supported or goodwill associated with party figures, e.g. The Network Group of the Red Cross. In the case of Skien incarceration, where TV 2 came into the most sacred of all with weapons, we saw how things are being warned, but is being disregarded for five years in terms of employee safety. More and more criminals with a foreign background create a more insecure everyday life. The drug is flooding in, for example: Bjørgvin prison. The latest figures show that more than half of the urine samples taken in Bjørgvin prison — a prison with so-called a low level of safety — show the use of drugs. And then the question is, Should such prisoners be in a prison with a low level of security? In 2009, 611 urine samples were taken by the prisoners in Bjørgvin prison. 309 of the samples were positive, 187 can be directly linked to drug use in prison itself. This prison was opened as part of removing the cows and – the question here – at what price? Summary: How does the Council of State assess the situation in criminal matters, taking into account the concerns of employees and the population regarding the need for security – as I have explained here – and the need for a better balance in the criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2940	From the Right-dominated Bondevik II government, we took over a justice sector with significant imbalances in the criminal justice chain and a very long settlement queue. When the red-green government took over, the lack of custody and settlements in criminal custody was the biggest challenge we faced. The poverty line had already reinforced the problem of recurrent criminal and organised crime, reduced the preventive effect of the penalty and weakened confidence in criminal policy and the criminal system. Injured for crime deserves a better and faster response, so the government immediately got to grips with the situation. In order to remove the restitution queue while ensuring better content in the restitution, the Ministry of Justice developed a very ambitious plan for the resolution of the restitution queue in spring 2006. The plan included more prison sites, better capacity utilisation measures, more use of alternative criminal responses and wider use of community sanctions. The plan has been followed up, both in the government budget proposal and in the legislative proposals to which the Stortinget has very much agreed. Following the construction of nearly 400 new prison sites, Halden built prisons with a further 251 prison sites – to be officially opened next month – introducing electronic home-sones with a capacity of 150 prisons, increasing the use of criminal enforcement in treatment institutions according to § 12 and strengthening the voluntary care centres significantly, the settlement queues are now well on the way. I remember that we took over in a situation where nearly 2,900 people were not at all in a shelter, but were in line in society, in a rush or not in a rush. Since crime prevention is a good fight against crime, it is important that we improve the content of compensation. Over 60 pst. wears, inter alia: with a significant drug problem. Therefore, the appropriations – adopted unanimously in Stortinget, as I recall – for education, library, press and health care are so important. The appropriations have increased by nearly 80 million. Since the change of government, precisely to strengthen the content and training provision of all prisons in the country. For example, all prisons with more than 25 prisoners have: have been provided with their own library or fully accessible library services. You've been given instruction. We have also increased the effort in terms of housing, by getting housing consultants into prisons, thus ensuring the release of housing. You bring Nav into prison in a very exciting way, which also makes it possible to secure a job that is released. I believe that here in Stortinget we should be careful – so to speak without a filter – to bring claims, as I heard the interpellant make, into the hall and almost base them. The question of maintenance, which was significantly criticised, falls on its own unfairness. Maintenance facilities are important for the implementation of penalties, but there is reason to point out that in Norwegian prisons there has been a significant maintenance run. So state buildings, as a professional property manager, have now taken over state prison property in 2009, and the maintenance effort has increased by 78 million. kr – I repeat: 78 million. kr. In addition, 150 million were allocated in 2009 as part of the government’s package of measures. for maintenance measures and modernisation in a number of prisons. If you – as I heard the representative Dahl referred to it – make it clear that you are now in a situation where you are not betting on maintenance, yes, you simply have to study what is actually happening. Winning the fight against drug addiction is imperative for a better life after atonement. It prevents new crime, and it makes society safer. Since we took over, there are drug treatment units in nine prisons, where prisoners with drug problems receive a multidisciplinary rehabilitation offer for their problems. In 2010, new units come in two prisons. With the Stifliner project at Bredtveit prison, women have received a similar offer that has been given to men in Oslo prison for a number of years. If you don't see what's going on in criminal matters, then it's our job – and in that way it's nice to get this debate – to bring it to the fore. Although the appropriations related to criminal justice have been increased by approximately DKK 1.6 billion over the period 2005-2009, it should not be underestimated that criminal justice continues to face challenges. Despite the increased operational budget of the Criminal Service by 7 million. kr in the 2006 budget, SEK 15 million. SEK for voluntary care in 2007 and 20 million. in 2008, the cooling work has resulted in a pressured working situation for the members of the criminal service. The prisons have had, and still have, a very high coating. The police are doing a better and better job. It has been necessary to terminate the queue and to avoid new queues. The aim is to reduce the coating to 90 pst., which will provide better opportunities for criminal services to work with rehabilitation. A reduced coating will also provide a safer working environment and better time for employees to prisoners. I am concerned that there should be sufficient and correct composition of the staff in all prisons and free-of-charge agencies in criminal services, both prison officers and personnel with other relevant training. The introduction of new occupational groups has, of course, been produced by some as if you were suddenly unskilled – I would like to distance myself from that. We've chosen to bet on increased admissions at the Crime Agency's educational center, KRUS. While the recording to KRUS in 2005 was 100 aspirin, we have increased the recording to approx. 200 aspirants in 2006, 200 aspirants in 2007, 250 aspirants in 2008 and 170 in January 2009. In order to cover non-response, 25 aspirins were added on 1 September 2009 at a decentralised admission in Bergen. In order to meet the different needs, KRUS has recruited aspirants with local links to areas and prisons where the need for new officers is greatest. In addition to the Bergen admission in the autumn of 2009, decentralised teaching arrangements have been carried out at the prisons in Kongsvinger, Åna, Ravneberget and Vadsø/Tromsø. In spite of approx. However, we still need more qualified staff for 450 new year-olds in the field of criminal services in the period 2005-2009. As promised in the new policy platform for majority government, the Ministry of Justice has been working on a review of the competence and manpower of the criminal justice system to improve the content of the sentence. The review will include an analysis of the expected departure of personnel and reasons for this, the current and future skill needs and composition of criminal services, and a review of these relationships in relation to the training capacity of the KRUS. Then I would like to point out that since the fall of 2009, the use of custody has increased significantly. To date, there have been 955 custody prisoners in Norwegian prisons, compared with 799 in 2009 and 730 in 2008. As of 1 March this year, there were 1,007 guards in Norwegian prisons. It's a big number – the police are delivering well. It's a challenge for us. We are therefore now looking at further capacity expansion. I'm glad we're going to open Halden Prison. But at the same time, I remember that there are none of the opposition's parties that have put money into additional prison places in their alternative budgets. Here we all have a common challenge. I am convinced that we have more capacity to pick up, and that we will also get it for the future. The important thing now is that we get to open Halden prison. It's an investment of over SEK 1.3 billion. It is this government that has chosen to spend so much money on this plant. We think it's important for two reasons: first, it gives us 251 places. Secondly – and I fully agree with the interpellant – it is important that we at the same time also be able to think about the content of the compensation. The connection we do in Halden, by pulling in, among other things. several actors are crucial. I have to say that I do not like much of the production done by Halden prison out in the media – easy-to-use games that do not help us to reduce quality. I will give tribute to the Right who has stuck to its previous decisions and its position on criminal justice, and who also defends this investment. I think it's important to bring down crime, but it's not least important to be able now to increase the capacity of criminal justice – it'll help. So I believe that we have more to do, and that is why we aim to look at all possible measures that can contribute to the increased capacity of criminal services – both new places and also to be able to think alternatively – for the large group in Norwegian prisons, who sit there for very short sentences, who have significant drug problems, and who could actually get much better rehabilitation by using alternative zones. It will provide less crime and more security, but it will also contribute to a greater distortion of capacity to meet just the increased need for care we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2976	The size of the population is related to what the Council of State and the Government inform and inform the Storting about. The information we have received in the last four years is quite a bit different from what the organisations and the employees and prisoners in Norwegian prisons give us. The Professional Association of Criminal Services states that this ‘Council of State is guilty of the death of a professional of the century’. It's a heavy diet. The right does not swallow everything that an organisation says, but I want to be very short and concrete about what I'm wondering. It's: Tar, according to the government council, the employees and their organizations are wrong, and in case what is completely concretely wrong with their description? They say that the door is closed, and ‘this time the Council of State must stand alone’. This is their attitude towards the sitting government. It is then that the Storing and the Council of State together need to find a solution that is clearly a rather heated conflict – which is not propaganda from the Right, but an attempt to get the Council of State to inform the Storing somewhat more closely about what is happening out there, as employees’ organisations experience. So it might be that they're lubricating on a little bit, but these are so clear and crazy words that the question is simply: what are the employees and their organisations KY and the LO NFF are wrong about? And concreteize where they're wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e2985	I tried in my reply just to point out the effort that the government has made in terms of criminal matters. It's been a little strange sometimes to experience, especially when we were faced with a rather strenuous situation in the police, to be accused of just favoring the criminal justice system. Then it was the review tone. I was the Minister of Criminal Affairs. I took that as a honorary title. To the extent that organisations or others claim that they have chosen to reduce the funding for criminal services, they are wrong. They're increased significantly. To the extent that organisations or individuals claim to have reduced the number of persons employed in criminal care, both the skilled and the unskilled, they are mistaken. To the extent that employees or organisations claim that there is no effort to train more people in criminal matters, mistakes are made. The numbers' speech is very clear. To the extent that – and as I was also referred to – you claim that you are not now betting on maintenance, you are wrong. We can just travel to the prisons and see what's actually happening. When KY and NFF and others were very concerned that you, for example, to remove the four-man rooms in the Åna prison, many of us said we should. It'll cost you money. It's an establishment and a rehabilitation that's now very well going on. When the same organizations said that you have to do something with the Red Street on the Åna to build more open spaces, we chose to do it. Fortunately, several prisons now benefit from more money for maintenance. There is considerable money that Stortinget has chosen to grant for this. We've all agreed on that in this room. So I find it a little strange that you should just swallow that it is not bet on maintenance. The same can be said about activity offers. The activity building in Oslo, which was chosen to be part of last year’s budget, is a significant investment. The Halden complex itself is a significant investment. So to the extent that some people also claim that you make professional drops, I also disagree with that. Then you're wrong. If we wanted to strangle a profession, we wouldn't have chosen to increase the educational rate of the same institution as we have done at the Educational Centre of Crime. So I'm going to be the first to admit that we all have to be open so that you can disagree in volume and say that we want more of the same thing. It's part of the policy. But there are limits to language usage. I don't think it helps to make policy in this area better by making such arguments in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3000	I would like to thank the representative Dahl for the interpellation, which gives us the opportunity to discuss the situation in criminal matters. It is very good that has been done in recent years to strengthen criminal justice and to enable it to carry out effective punishments. Then it's worth remembering what was the situation when the red-green government took over in 2005. There was really no pleasant inheritance we took over after four years of bourgeois rule. There were almost 3,000 convicted in pay queues. There was a lot of frustration, frustration among the members of the staff in criminal care, who never felt their heads over the water, frustration among the convicted, who had to go with an uncertainty about when they could son, settle and move on in life as law-abiding citizens, and frustration among victims, who knew that the perpetrators did not pay their punishment. We have discussed compensation for victims of violence earlier today. In addition to financial compensation, the victims actually deserve to have the perpetrator convicted, quick response and zone immediately. Long settlement cows were a major challenge that the Minister of Justice, fortunately, took on a tight arm. A real force was taken to remove the queue into prison. 400 new prison sites, more in place at the prison school, and alternative forms of settlement were used, and the funding for criminal services has increased. Obviously it has cost, but it has been important, and it has been quite right. So I guess we're going to have to assume here today that it's cost to everyone who every day does an important job in criminal matters. It is in place here today to give a great reward to all the competent, committed and conscientious employees. I myself have been in many prisons in the last few months and met employees who tell me about a hectic everyday life, and employees who are worried because they don't get to do good enough work compared to rehabilitation. I share, a bit on the road at least, the concern of the interpellant and the members of the criminal service, because there is no doubt that the coating is too high today. So our goal is also to reduce the coating to 90 pst. Then employees will be better able to work with rehabilitation, and there will be more security and better time. Then we have challenges in terms of commodity law. But there's good reason today to remember that when we dealt with the state budget for not too long back, there were no parties that suggested a single penny more to several prison places. So there we have a common challenge. Let me say it like this: I would have been concerned if the Advance Party had been the largest party in a government if the red-green had lost the election. With a party of progress that is more concerned with longer penalties than with punishments that actually work, that are against or at best skeptical of alternative forms of reconciliation, and, as many have been involved today, that would have led a policy that would have led to more crime, the situation would at least not have been any better than it is today. Interpellant Dahl asks questions about whether there are enough professionals in our prisons, and whether the capacity of Prison School is large enough to meet the need. Well, the intake of prison education has been record high since the red-greens took control. And it's all about the fact that we're concerned about the right and most appropriate competence of the staff in criminal matters to carry out effective punishments. To make sure that there is now a necessary and comprehensive review of the competence of criminal justice. It is good that the Department has launched investigations to explain both the current situation and the need for competence in the future. That work is well under way, and in a good working party spirit, we should also include the employees' trade unions in the process. This government took over criminal care that in no way was a glamour. We've removed the reconciliation queue, but there's no reason to rest on the laurels for that reason. Our ambition is to remove the queue back to society. Then we need to prevent more, and we need to rehabilitate better. That's why the Red-Green government has invested in alternative forms of reconciliation, not primarily to relieve prisons, but because we know it works. That's why we've set up educational facilities and institutions, because it gives the prisoner better tools to master a life as a law-abiding citizen. That's why there are resident consultants in prison, because we know it's completely critical if the prisoner doesn't get a place to live when the settlement is complete. Therefore, it is also important that the return guarantee be introduced to ensure that we manage to remove the queue back to society. It's the society, the victims and the convicted best served.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3019	There's an important debate going on in the interpellant, because we know that the lack of staff with competence in Norwegian prisons is beginning to approach the limit of the irresponsible in several places. More and more staff and better skills are required to ensure the safety of employees and prisoners, as more and more of those admitted to Norwegian prisons are convicted of serious crimes and the criminal environment is becoming increasingly harsh. There are increasing numbers of people from the organised criminal environment who don't miss out on any means to achieve anything they want, even if they're in prison. I am surprised that this in itself does not cause some alarm clocks to ring, if the security of employees and prisoners is important. There's also another thing that amazes me. In 2010, the police got a big budget boost, at least on paper. The intention of this so-called promise was to make the police better able to carry out their duties. More criminals had to be taken. This means that more cases were to be investigated, more were to be judged, and more were to be imprisoned for their crimes. This effect has been largely absent. The big economic promise was eaten up by a wage and price increase that was not fully compensated, it was the continuation of projects under way, working time regulations, ICT investment and other necessary investments at the expense of day-to-day operational work. What we now see, as I said, is that the effect after the time of raising the police has not been as we were told. No more cases have been investigated, not many more have been brought to the courts, and there have not been many more in prison. We know that the courts are struggling both economically and procedurally. We also know that prisons are reasonably full, custody facilities are scarce, and what I mentioned earlier is a lack of staff with good competence. Because of this, it is likely that both the courts and the criminal services are pleased that the great promise was not as suggested. In this context, it must be allowed to ask a question: Since the police were given this so-called promise that would lead to more arrests, convictions and imprisonments, and the economic and manpower situation is as it is in the courts and the criminal justice system, why were there neither greater financial resources nor clear action plans laid before the courts and the criminal justice system so that we could accept this increased growth of sighted people and convicted people who were expected? It is tempting to claim that the government and the state council knew that there would be no pressure either in courts or in criminal matters. They may have known that this so-called economic promise was not a real boost, but an illusion. Because knowing that this created illusion would not lead to more convicted and imprisoned people, it was also not necessary to grant increased resources to either courts or criminal justice. I hope I am wrong about my generous thoughts. But what is important is that you see the reality and ensure that the whole chain of criminal proceedings is prioritised and that the fight against crime is intensified. It is also important to ensure the safety of both staff and prisoners in Norwegian prisons. Priority needs to be given to resources for personnel and investment to improve safety. A good example of this is the construction of security locks at the ski prison, so that both employees and prisoners do not have to live in fear that armed criminals will easily enter prison as they can today. Finally, I must be allowed to hope that the Council of State has noticed that in my post I have not mentioned anything about the release of the Council of State prisoners' free policy, so that it will not be a debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3036	The interpellant is raising an important discussion, because here we are debating situation descriptions in the criminal justice system, which is cracking. As both the inter-pellant and the Council of State had in mind, there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy that everyone wants to wind up the settlement queues, because it is important for the whole fight against crime. So we're experiencing a discussion related to criminal law, as the interpellant points out, it's important for us as decision-making bodies to get more insight into. We experience a discussion, for example. related to the use of unskilled persons in prisons and at detention centres. We experience a situation in which the custody sites are under a very strong pressure – to put it mildly – with the consequences it has for the other shelters. We also experience from time to time a discussion about the prison composition, the different categories of prisoners, and that it can also help to increase the pressure on crew and safety. Recently, we have also seen situations related to watchkeeping and securing one prison in particular, which is also important for the Storing to go into more detail. From the Right, this raises three fundamental questions as to what is the correct situation description. We've heard the Council of State, we've heard the organizations. Question 1: Do we need to reduce the level of ambition to solve this? Question 2: Is there a need to increase resource use – is that the only answer? Question 3: Or is the situation that we have a zero option, that everything is hurt well, and that we don't have to do any things, but continue as before? I think these are important questions to clarify to us as a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3045	My claim will of course be that the government has done a good job since it took over the government quarters in 2005. We assumed responsibility as the entire criminal case chain screamed after modernisation and strengthening. The only government at that time, with its head right, was creative accounting, as the then Minister of Justice writes in his memoirs. There was no fresh money, Odd Einar Dørum writes in his memoirs. There were no fresh thoughts – I can add. However, these were long cows. This government has once again put the criminal code on the map. We have built nearly 400 new prison sites, we have built Halden prisons with a further 251 prisons, we have introduced electronic home soning, which is equivalent to 150 prisons, we have increased the use of criminal enforcement in treatment institutions according to Section 12, and we have strengthened the health services. Reconnaissance queues are now well on the way. There's something the Right couldn't dream about in its time. But it's good with right-wing engagement in the party's opposition life. In our time we've really been driving hard, both to make sure that those who are going to zone, the zone is going to be possible because it's important and right for people's sense of justice, and because it's right for the sentence to end its punishment and get on with it. We've also been committed to providing the prisoners with good rehabilitation opportunities. For SV, it's very important that we as a society do everything we can to make sentence become better for citizens when they get out of prison than when they got in. That is when we achieve the goal of the detention. And that's what society should be primarily concerned about, even though I have to hurry to add that you've broken the law, you're going to take the consequences of it. The community must facilitate the release of prisoners, education, vocational training and settlement, and enable them to live a law-abiding life after the atonement. We are pleased that, in our time, there are educational facilities in all the country's prisons. There are increased appropriations for libraries in prisons — all prisons with more than 25 prisoners now have a library offer. Prisoners are given help to obtain owner-occupiers. Nav provides help to the prisoners in many prisons and helps them to return to society in order. In nine prisons, drug retention units are established, and more will come. All of this has been possible with good and indispensable help from the employees. They have assumed responsibility. It says respect. But that means we have to listen to them. We have recorded that there is dissatisfaction in the building, despite the fact that we have trained far more aspirants than the previous government did, and despite the fact that much has been invested in criminal care. In Soria Moria II, we promised that we would start work on a peer review of the criminal justice system in order to improve the content of the sentence. The Ministry of Justice has started this work. SV looks forward to this review. We are sure that the department will be active in this process, and we promise that we will listen carefully to the employees. For the SV and the Government, it is important to be on hand with those who take responsibility for the criminal justice system in the country. So I'm going to spend the last 50 seconds on the fun post from the Progress Party. If it is now that there has not been a better budget, that there has been no more investigation, that no more have been convicted, that there are no more prisoners, I will begin to wonder: Where was it of the 1.3 billion kroner that we have allocated more than what was granted in the last year's budget? Is it just to buy flowers? Do they buy flowers for 1.3 billion dollars? Then there are many flowers, very many, in the police case, and many more should think of delivering more. And if it really is that they buy flowers, there's nothing to worry about when it comes to prisons. Then I wonder what was meant by the article itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3062	Criminal services are a particularly important establishment. Those who work in this department accept people who have broken the laws, and should preferably help them not to come back again, the day they let out. And then it's obvious that prisons should not only be detention centres, but that the soning should have a content that seems rehabilitating and prevents later offences. The Minister of Justice has done well for all the measures taken to remove both the pay queue and improve the content of the soning. Those who work in criminal services have done, and do, a phenomenal effort to achieve this as a goal. It is important to value the job they do and to facilitate further efforts. Therefore, such debates are clearly important, but even more important is what we actually do. There are, as I said, many measures that can indicate: strengthening in the form of better educational provision, libraries in prison, help in finding housing and work for the day they release, etc. In the future, it will be important to reduce the amount of cover in prison, so that they are added with more time to work with those who are in prison. The testing system with electronic proofing has produced good results, and will also be an important tool in the future. Free care increases its share of the increase in the budget, because some of the key lies in the transition between prison and being out again, and in alternative forms of reconciliation. When it comes to the care situation, it is closely linked to the fact that the police have gained more resources and used them well, such as: to take several foreign criminals. Here, too, the Council of State shows action by providing for measures to improve access to custody facilities now. It has been said that no government is as good as she says she is, or as bad as the opposition says. It is easy to be tempted to brag by themselves — but everything is actually relative. The results of the incarceration have not come about by itself. The results are due to the fact that the red-green government has invested relatively much more than the previous one. We're going to continue to facilitate that those who are in prison, or who are sons in other ways, will be fine on the day they're done with the soning.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3075	I have to say that I understand in part the frustration that is out there among the people working in criminal matters. There have been some years now, where the pressure has been enormous. We've had a coating percentage up to 100 pst. And in addition, we've had a big content reform, which also creates a everyday life where you don't quite see what tomorrow will be like. This has been done in good and close cooperation with employees' organisations. I had, in the last growing-up period, a number of meetings with both KY and NFF, where we, for example. discussed the criminal care reform. They felt that it was a right and important reform to come along. But it is clear that when people experience changes in everyday or working life, they also create challenges, and sometimes frustrations. I understand parts of that frustration. In addition, the government didn't want to have a coating percentage up to 100 p.m., because everyone understands that it doesn't work over time. Then you don't get to work well enough with the prisoners, and the pressure on the employees is too tough if it takes too long. So this has been a politically crazy situation, and it has happened in good and close cooperation with the employees. The situation when we took over in 2005 was, as well described, totally unsustainable. We had almost 3,000 criminals who went out in society and waited to get in for a living. I would like to ask a simple question to e.g. Kielland Asmyhr, who will talk after me: does he think that there have been more or less victims of crime, when that queue is now gone? Last year, when we had repeated debates in this room about the police situation, I experienced, and the government parties, a number of times to be criticized for having far too much focus on criminal justice. Then there was no one referring to the same leader in KY, and my simple question is, why wasn't he the right man to refer to then, when he was out criticizing what he called actions from the Police Union? Everyone remembers that the manager of KY started coughing a little in an entry on TV 2 and felt a little bad. So KY now, into the pay negotiations, positions, it was both announced and expected. Of course, part of what comes now from that edge, you have to include a pinch of salt because it's part of the positioning in the tripartite collaboration. I am quite sure that the representative Oktay Dahl also understands well. When he referred to it uncritically, without reflection – I do not say that it is Oktay Dahl who says what he referred from the pulpit – I am concerned. Because once again, we're going to have a situation where unions can almost be allowed to say anything in the public room, with a cheerleader from the opposition behind us, as we experienced in the context of the police situation a little over a year ago, then I'm concerned about the development of tripartite cooperation. It can't be that only someone is going to stand up for the system that you have, in terms of free formation of wages, and it also requires that you make some demands on the actors involved in the tripartite cooperation. So I'll give praise to the Right because at least they haven't picked up the criticism of the use of money when it comes to the construction of Halden prison. It's very useful that more people see the point that we have to have more spaces. It brings me to the care situation, which is challenging. When Ørsal Johansen chatted about the police operation, I have a simple question for him. In 2008, there were an average of 730 places of care. Now we're at over 1,000, an increase of almost 30 pst. in relation to the points of custody. Does the Progress Party believe that this has come about by itself, or is it because more criminals have been taken? A simple question, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3093	The President will draw attention to the immediate deadline for the evening meeting, but will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3098	I want to give the representative Dahl the brunt of taking up this interpellation. It is important that we take the situation in criminal matters seriously. There is no doubt that there have been too few seats and that there is a significant maintenance run in the sector. This means that you cannot answer the concerns of employees with a ‘crack of salt’, as the representative Breen says from the Stockholm Chair. I think that's relatively arrogant of a representative from a government party. That means you don't want to listen to those who have the shoes on and who work in this sector every day. What made me take the floor was the contribution of the representative Stine Renate Håheim, who makes the policy of the Progress Party contribute to more criminals. There is reason to recall that a debate in the main hall is not the same as a discussion course in the AUF. Here you have to be able to document the claims that you make. I think it is relatively recognised in Norwegian society that the Progress Party has been, and still is, a party that has a significant offensive judicial policy and that is significant in the public debate with good proposals. We want a significant increase in the level of penalties. It is the press of the Progress Party over many years that has led the police to a significant increase in their budgets. We have proposed to increase the investment budget for the police, so that the police get up to date and good equipment – the best equipment they can get. For many years, the Progress Party has been calling for more police in the streets – we are still doing so – just to provide security for most people in the streets. Is it creating more criminals? We also want more prison places. We have not criticized the construction of Halden prison. We have criticised parts of the use of money related to the construction of Halden prison and the level of the standard. And not least: no more criminals are created by demanding a rapid deployment of foreign criminals to their homelands and proposing compensation abroad! That's why it should have been suggested by the president when you make claims that another party's policy contributes to more criminals. And then I'm not sure if we're going to take Mr. Chaudhry's posts seriously. So when you say that others are more concerned with creative bookkeeping, you should document it. Representatives of the government parties must take seriously the debates that come to this Chamber, and not grumble at the debates that are being raised. They must take it seriously, not with ‘a pinch of salt’ and ‘without reflection’, as the representative of Breen has allowed himself in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3113	The President will request that all posts held in the Parliamentary Chair be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3116	This is an important interpellation, and a well-functioning criminal service is an important piece to ensure good and effective fight against crime. The Minister of Justice has undoubtedly invested a lot of prestige in removing the reconciliation queue. It may then have to be characterised as a maximum of unflation that foreign criminals are now in the process of overfilling Norwegian prisons, with the result that the police now have to wait in line to get custody places. Today, the Director of the North Region regrets the fact that criminal services are not able to set up when the police need it. We can't have it that way. There is no solution for early release of prisoners in order to release premises for custody. The threshold for custody is already high, and when the police are unable to take custody due to lack of space, the investigation is complicated, while society does not receive the necessary protection against crime. As a member of the Judicial Committee during the previous period, I have heard the Minister of Justice several times assure the Storting that settlement transfer agreements to the home country would release capacity in Norwegian prisons. Today, we may wonder what has gone wrong, and why this work does not produce visible results. Lack of care places has been a recurring problem, and the Council of State even showed this evening a radical increase in the number of custody prisoners. On the right, the Government has rightly criticised – I believe – for an unbalanced bet on open rather than closed prisons. The consequences are now seen by the lack of access to custody sites and the continued detonation of capacity. The right has pointed to the special problem in the north, where large police districts are actually completely out of custody. Middle Hålogaland police district is in such a situation. Police are being forced here to use considerable resources and scarce personnel as escorts to prisons that may be all day away. Failure to solve this problem is unwise policy, because it affects the effectiveness and ability of the police to solve much more urgent police tasks. Since 2005, the right has on several occasions proposed the establishment of new custody sites in the Central Hålogaland Police District. As the Council of State is well aware, there are concrete proposals on the location of custody sites for abandoned Nes Fort in Lødingen. The municipality has a location in the middle of the police district and several courts in the same impact area. These too need access in settlements in settlements. In the light of persistent capacity problems with respect to custody sites, it might be interesting to hear whether the Minister of Justice has changed his mind and will now help to equip the police districts of Midre Hålogaland with their own custody facilities — thereby helping to free closed prisons that the police in this district today confiscate elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3135	Everything's not black-and-white. The councils and the government have done a lot of good, and they have granted more money. There's no one here in this room who's blind. But what I have to conclude with, if nothing comes up, is that the Council of State believes that the members of the criminal service are wrong. So there's not too many unskilled people in criminal care, so there's no "mismatch" between open and closed places. They are mistaken when they claim that society’s security needs have been damaged. They are wrong when they point out that there is a great need and lack of care places. They are wrong when they say that there are major problems with drug use in Norwegian prisons. They are wrong when they claim that the prison grounds are not adapted to new and heavier foreign criminals. They are wrong when they claim that the housing queues will increase quite quickly. They are mistaken that there will be less focus on the content of the deposit, such as NFF alerts. They are also mistaken when they point out that unskilled people take on tasks they should not have. They are mistaken that it is a legal security problem that unskilled people are allowed to use the means of power they do not have access to under the law. And they are wrong when they say that there is a problem that there is too little research, or that there is not enough control of what is happening in Norwegian prisons. I could still have like this. My and Right points are, as the representative Werp said, that it is not necessarily to nail the Council of State for not doing anything. There's a need for the Storing and all of its parties and organs to have a reality picture that's close to something that's true, because there's someone wrong, and someone who's right. When the Council of State has the attitude that the organisations are completely wrong, and they have the attitude that the Council of State is completely wrong, there are therefore some who have to be very little wrong – and it could have been very good if the Storting could have got a closer look at it. So my question to the Council of State is short and good: is the Council of State concerned about the future development of criminal services, or is it going to continue to read out all the crowns and ears and measures you are pleased to have carried out in the last five years, while you are not concerned about taking responsibility for the misguided attitude and conflict between his own government and the employees and organisations? Finally, the representative Chaudhry: it was ‘creative bookkeeping’ this time. I have to say that once again the representative of Chaudhry – who is a member of the Presidency – shows a great repertoire of insinuating other representatives to commit criminal acts. I have to say, I'm wondering a little bit where he's getting all that inspiration from. I hope that the presidency will begin to discuss how far there is a chance to go, when, in the past – correctly in the VG, after VG called – you have had to complain that you have claimed that people have been bought and paid. Creative bookkeeping is a bit milder, but there is reason to ask questions about where he is getting inspiration from to all of these articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3148	That is an advantage of this debate, and it is that it helps us to try to get the facts out. I'll try to make another contribution. First of all, I do not believe that the organisations in this field are mistaken for everything they claim, but there were some very special claims that came first in the debate, which I felt the need to refute. But many of the recordings we get from both the professional community and the NFF are very important to us. That is why I am pleased that we have good contact with these organisations, especially with the crew analysis that is now to be carried out. It is not right that the representative Ørsal Johansen claims in his statement that it is almost a created illusion that we are betting on the police, but that it does not produce any results. In fact, there I fully agree with the inter-pellant and the Right that we must now acknowledge that the police's efforts contribute to so much results. What is the cause of concern at both the Right Party, the Government Party and the organisations is that the number of caregivers is increasing so significantly. It has to be taken seriously. The representative, Werp, is really asking three constructive questions. The first was, are you going to reduce the level of ambition? The answer is no. We're not going to reduce the level of ambition. We still want to have full pressure on the criminal justice system. The second question was, are we going to increase the use of resources? Yes, this year we're going to increase resource use. Opening up a whole new prison is a significant increase in resource use. What comes into the future budgets will perhaps contribute to the weekend's experiences on Thorbjørnrud – at least for my part – but we have not lost the ambitions for criminal care. It's important now, because we're experiencing pressure. And the third question, are you just going to go on like before? No, we haven't thought of that. We're not going to do what you did in the last growing-up period — not build educational facilities in prisons, let the payroll line move up to 3,000, don't drag Nav into prison, don't get progress in housing, don't get home-sone. We're not going to do this. We're still going to bet on criminal services, because it's so important when the police get people, that you actually get to turn the people around, so that they don't commit criminal acts. There is reason to point out that there is a significant challenge we have in criminal matters, especially now that we see so many have been arrested. Then I just have to say in the end that it is fascinating to listen to the representative, Aspaker, who asks for more closed places. We referred to the alternative state budget of Right. There is not one closed place in the alternative state budget – not even to the Lødningen – so a certain responsibility has to be taken for its own policies. So I'm set to continue the work of building multiple places. I have to admit that it took a red-green government to get 651 new seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3161	Case No. So 10 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3177	I'm sorry it was late, but that's the timetable here on the house. In Denmark, there has been a long-standing conflict in Copenhagen between the MC environment, in the form of Hells Angels and its AK 81 support group, on the one hand and young people with a different ethnic or cultural background on the other. In 2008, it was registered approximately. 900 gang members, while in 2009 the figure was 1250. The shooting episodes between the bands have expanded from the Nørrebro district to other parts of Copenhagen. In 2008, there were more than 60 shooting episodes. Since 1 August 2008 and until 20 October last year, the police have registered 339 shooting episodes in Denmark. 109 of them have been related to the gang conflict, which has cost six lives, 59 have been wounded and 40 people related to the gang environment have been targeted by the police. In the second quarter of 2009, there were 22 shooting episodes where the police thought it was about settlement in the gang environment; in the third quarter, 21 were registered. In March 2009, the Danish government presented the so-called gang package. The band package provides for more stringent penalties and a tightening of the expulsion rules relating to infringements of the arms law. This package has also provided more money to increase the amount of police in the streets. Copenhagen police and Sjælland felt the need to increase their efforts against these gang wars and set up their own special unit. This unit shall strengthen the further investigation against those persons who, directly or indirectly, play a leading role in the conflicts. It is called the Task Force East and will cooperate closely with other police departments, including the police. with the police intelligence service. So this is the situation in Denmark. In Norway, it has previously been known that several security companies operate with a paramilitary structure and are responsible for illegal interception, monitoring, use of violence, threats and killing and are likely to support the training of MC club members in Norway. The head of the unit for organized crime in Kripos, Atle Roll-Matthiesen, has previously stated that this is the same thing as in foreign fraternal clubs. In 2007, he said to TV 2 that it is not yet possible to predict a gang war in Norway, but that it is known from the past that small, marginal events have triggered major conflicts. Therefore, there is reason to take what is now happening seriously, he said. This message has also been repeated later this year. The perception of these as a threat comes to a large number of enquiries from around the country. Kripos notes that there are criminal MC bands and sympathizers to them in more than 70 municipalities in Norway. With criminal MC clubs, the police mean so-called one-percent motorcycle clubs, where members define themselves as the one percent of the population that has resigned from society, with their own rules of play. This is among the most and best organised criminal networks in Norway, according to Kripos. Many members of motorcycle clubs are, of course, family fathers — and perhaps some mothers too — with honest jobs and motorcycles as a hobby. It may be far from being a support group for a direct support group. But among the supporters there are also members involved in crime – on a mission or on an order from the mother club. We recently saw that Danish Hells Angels have visited Arendal several times and become familiar with parts of the local MC environment. In January, a 32-year-old Danish citizen was held in custody for what the police believe is gross violence against one of the guests in a local pub. One 20-year-old man of the arendal must have had two teeth knocked out – and more injured other parts of the body. The police are linking the incident to Hells Angels and have proposed to deny members access to the symbols of the outside club. The police in Denmark believe that the gang war there started as a debate on the sale of drugs, but that it has evolved into other types of crime, such as trafficking in human beings, bribery and torpedo activities. To date, Norway has been proud of a comparable situation, but that is why – and I know that the Council of State does – to think preventively in view of the fact that our small, rich country can risk the same thing in the future and learn from the positive, negative experiences of the Danes. The Norwegian authorities responded in cash after NOKAS, but we are in arrears – everyone sees it – in relation to organised profit crime from Eastern Europe. Eastern European gangs have largely taken over the market from Norwegian ransacks, and that is a major threat. Those we know today have described themselves as a forerunner, like a huge swarm of criminals. They laugh at us and think we're fast. In the middle of this situation, it looks like a new police crisis is about to occur, with cuts in annual work compared to what was foreseen. We've been discussing the criminal justice system and the situation in it, and the courts are notifying manning stops. While the police have partially analysed the threat picture, but believe that we are in arrears, it has been decided to make the settlements considerably more modest for a prisoner composition that had not been assessed in advance in relation to the threat picture. There is no «quick fix» on this, and the Right asks the Government to initiate a broad settlement, so that society returns before it is too late and some of these groups start fighting for markets, possibly cooperating. If it is the case that the budget negotiations have been informed that money needs to be saved, it should not go beyond one of the country's basic tasks. We see that publishing tax lists, linking to new search engines, social media, etc. contribute to the promotion of economic, organised crime and ID thefts, both under the control of Eastern Europeans and possibly also under the control of MC bands. Yesterday, if I.D. insurance said that they were giving money from the NOKAS to the theft register. According to IF, this is one of the best means available to prevent the spread of stolen goods, whether they are generated by Eastern European gangs or also by MC bands. If, at the same time, they underlined the hope that ‘the right authorities will facilitate the best possible working conditions for those who are behind the website’. This shows how serious private actors look to the future. In the past, the Council of State has refused to purchase prisons in the home countries of criminals, for example: by using the EEA funding mechanism, although there is good reason to assume that several criminals behind the walls of Norwegian prison are further processing well-established networks, but also building new ones. There is reason to believe that imports of this type of crime can lead to more and more serious abuses of violence in the future, for example. if there is a struggle for market or revir, or, as mentioned above, if the different environments cooperate across the board. We are now also in the midst of a fundamental debate on the integration of people with ethnic and cultural baggage other than the majority in Norway. There's a lot of anger growing up, young men living on the side of society with a different cultural background. We see that some members of some fundamentalist religious/cultural attitudes, MC gangs and other criminal networks seek to recruit them to their networks. For example, PST said: in its last report that young Norwegian Somalis, Norwegian Pakistani, Norwegian Afghans and Norwegian Iraqis are recruited for violent extremism from abroad. Here you can see possible networks that can create major problems in the short or longer term. That is why I ask the following questions: How does the Norwegian Government assess its readiness to deal with similar situations that have developed over time in our neighbouring country, Denmark, and the ongoing ‘band wars’ there? What do we have to learn, and what do we not have to learn from Denmark when it comes to solving these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3213	There is a comprehensive picture of the representative Octay Dahl drawing up in his post. I am pleased that he is doing so comprehensively, primarily because we need comprehensive action here – comprehensive in the sense that there are different types of action. But to Denmark first: I will have a bilateral meeting with the Danish Minister of Justice in a short time, and some of the issues raised in the interpellation will also be a theme there. We have a lot to learn, and we have a lot to learn away. Let me start by reminding you that the crime scene in Norway and Denmark is different, sail if we have many common challenges. The overall picture of conflict in the rock and band environments in Denmark is complex and consists of many different conflicts. The result has, as you know, been a situation of extreme contradictions and a very high number of shooting episodes, many of which have led to the loss of life. However, there is no doubt that the emergence of criminal gangs is a significant challenge also for Norway. In the summer of 2006, there was a shooting drama between rival crowds in the middle of the audience at Aker Brygge. This, as is well known, triggered the largest overall police effort against recrime in Norway, the aim of which was to combat thread-related crime in the Oslo area. The police have made considerable efforts through the reconstruction project with large quantities of weapons, drugs, money and other values. The active presence of the police and the growing knowledge of the environment tend to reduce the number of serious acts of violence in public spaces and to reduce the capacity and impact of the current gangs. But we're not done at all. The Police Directorate’s report on organised crime of May 2009 points out that the fight against gangs requires continuity and long-term action. The report mentions the fact that several police districts report the emergence of gangs characterised by gross and milder drug crime, ransack and the use of gross violence. The report recommends a comprehensive prevention effort against young repeaters who are at risk of developing a criminal career and/or at risk of being recruited into established gangs. The government's broad commitment to the police makes it possible to combat recriminalism, prevent re-employment and prevent the re-establishment of criminal gangs. The representative André Oktay Dahl mentions that the Norwegian authorities ‘reacted adequately after NOKAS’, but suggests that we should have made a profit in relation to organised profit crime. It is important to remember that through targeted efforts it was possible to crack central parts of the heavy traffic environment in Norway. Neither of us would have been able to predict a few years ago that we were going to approach zero, and also get zero when it was, among other things. value-added transport, mail and banking. It shows that it is useful to implement targeted measures against serious crime. We have to assume that crime is not constant in a society. We will constantly be challenged by new forms of illegal activity and must have the ability to identify new problem areas and take action. The increase in the profitability rate we have seen of foreign residents is not, of course, a phenomenon that is only in Norway. It is a common theme we are discussing with all the Ministers of Justice in Europe. It is not that any country has been able to present any tricks in relation to that challenge. It is a fact that crime committed by mobile criminals, often Eastern European citizens, has increased in recent years. The situation confronts the police with challenges in relation to cross-border cooperation on both the intelligence and investigation sides. Several police districts have taken hold of the issues and can show very positive results in the various projects established. I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to everyone in the police who has contributed during the last year of these projects. They've done a formidable job. For example, the cooperation project «Grenselös», which includes Vestfold, Telemark, Agder, Asker and Bærum, and Søndre Buskerud, can be mentioned. The team works both strategically and operationally and cooperates in research. Furthermore, I can draw up Oslo Police District, where an operational group was set up in May 2009 at the Majorstua Police Station to reduce gross thefts from housing throughout Oslo and to punish the mobile profit criminals behind it. The group of 20 people has had a special focus on Romanians and gross theft from villas. The group's driving role has led – and now I am asking everyone to bring this, because it is, after all, positive – that the number of gross thefts from housing in Oslo has been reduced from 355 in January to February 2009 to 170 in January to February 2010, a decrease of 52 pst. Hordaland police districts have specialized in so-called shimmering associated with Romanian criminals. Troms, Helgeland, Salten, Midre Hålogaland and East Finland police districts have entered into cooperation with the police in Sweden and Finland. Several of the projects focus on the active use of custody prisons — and we have noted this — while targeting research with a view to high quality and rapid legal treatment. In addition, it is an objective to adapt criminal responses to this serious social problem and to follow-up on expulsion. The increased effort has raised awareness among all the authorities involved about the need for an offensive approach to mobile profit criminals. The police directorate and the national lawyer, in cooperation with Kripos – at our request – have ensured coordination of efforts against mobile organised crime, including the necessary cooperation between the police districts and the police. Over the last few years, the IP has made a great effort to combat mobile profit criminals, which has led to a sharp increase in the number of people affected. I read the other day about a difficult case that was initiated after good activity by the U.S. Police, that after a traffic control, drug crimes were very seriously rolled up. That is why I am very sceptical about the proposal of the Progress Party to put an end to the policy of blackmail. By prioritising the fight against crime on the road, the police have the opportunity to detect crime in the years of transport where criminal activity is and often poses a risk to traffic. The draft budget for 2010 proposes the establishment of 45 annual works to strengthen efforts against mobile profit criminals. These are posts in the so-called intervention force proposed between Kripos, the U.S. Police, the Oslo Police District and the Hedmark Police District. It will significantly strengthen these efforts in terms of resources. In addition, there will be a border intervention in the process of being established. A significant number of new jobs are now being created in Eastfold. It is an important precautionary measure to prevent people who are not to enter the country from coming here. I would also like to point out that it is absolutely essential if we are to be heavily rusted, that we have good opportunities, among other things. using DNA, as we see, is of great importance in detecting international crime. It is also important for prevention to be able to track down, among others. traffic data. So the debate on the Data Storage Directive is an important element in achieving organised crime and preventing it better. Furthermore, it may be appropriate, in my view, for the Storting to discuss some aspects of our fight against organised crime. In order to have a good starting point for such a debate – and to the extent that what the interpellant is concerned about, an overall strategy beyond what is already being done today, because here we have to do something in the short term and something in the long term – I am aiming to promote a roll-out message on organised crime. The notification will provide a presentation of police efforts, including an indication of the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation with bodies such as: Customs, financial supervision, tax and banking and insurance sectors. I want to summarise by describing our preparedness for new negative changes in the crime scene as satisfactory in the short and long term. We are an open society and therefore are initially vulnerable to criminal estimates. However, we have a police force that today has a lot of resources, and so do in future, for example. through our strong increase in admission to the Police College, will be equipped to tackle new challenges. It is also important, and it will be affected in future submissions to the Stortinget, that the fight against gangs, as we know them in Norway, and also against motorcycle environments, takes on what I might call untraditional instruments when combating this type of crime. We must be cashy against serious crime and have police instruments and respond with punishment and imprisonment. However, it is vital that we also have to do what we can locally to ‘confound’ the possibility of establishment. One of the reasons why we have chosen to set up police councils around the whole country is to activate, in particular, municipal politicians and to use the means available to them, both in terms of the law, in terms of planning and building legislation and related legislation, to show that we do not accept the kind of representation and establishment, and actually make it difficult. I am quite convinced that one of the reasons we haven't seen a development in Norway like the one we see in Denmark is that not only through this period of government, but also through the previous period of government and beyond, has had a focus on prevention and being cash when we've seen sprouts grow. But we're not done. That is why I welcome this interpellation. It could also be a good opportunity to make proposals that can be assessed in the overall strategy that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3262	I thank you for your answer. If it's an area where we depend on our being together, it's when we fight this type of crime on the widest possible front. There I see that the Council of State and the Right have a lot of parallel views. Now, of course, I could have pulled up a DNA debate and discussed the CEOP centre and the abuse of children, trafficking in human beings, etc. We'll take that later, and we kind of discussed it last week. There are some challenges that I believe the Council of State still has in relation to the implementation of some of the promises he made in connection with the DNA reform – but enough about it. Rewarding cooperation across police districts is still a big job. Developing ways to inspire police districts to cooperate even more is something such a big message as the Council of State outlined needs to take over. When discussing the reorganisation of the police districts, I think a good start should be to discuss the municipal structure, because these are the same municipalities that the 27 police districts have to deal with. There are too many municipalities that do not do well because they are too small, so that child protection and others simply do not have the ability to have competence and the ability to prevent, among other things. re-recruitment to a number of environments. So there's a question of foreign criminals. In some prisons, there are more foreign criminals than there are ethnic Norwegians. Then there is a difficult question: What settlement transfer agreements can be put in place? The question is whether the State Council is still unwilling to purchase prison sites in some of its home countries, including in the EEA, simply to prevent them from further processing and developing networks from which they already have. Then there are questions that the representative Werp raised earlier in the Questionnaire, about working together across different public agencies, the local environment and the police. We have a lot to go on there. I expect the Council of State to be able to adequately explain it for hours on a later occasion, but it is a major challenge that the Right is still going to challenge the Council of State. Then there are questions about whether the Council of State is willing to take the initiative for a cross-political settlement. You could say that it can be very different. So there's a big message coming. I hope that combined with that big message, you will be willing to negotiate and discuss with the opposition here at Stortinget, so that we can get the widest possible majority. It's probably a new government coming up in three and a half years, or less than that. It makes sense to agree on common strategies and how to implement them. It may also be that the opposition can shake out more money to the Council of State sector than he does at the government conferences. Finally, a question that was not addressed by the Council of State is the challenges of integration. It is so important now that in the debate that is, which is really about five different things, we are able to distinguish between reacting harshly and in cash to unacceptable statements in the public debate – not mixing them with burka and hirab and that kind of thing – and at the same time have respect for the young men who are about to fall outside society, whom we must integrate and re-enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3279	Let me first say that the four points that the representative is now drawing out are important points, but I'll see what I can reach. As far as cross-border cooperation is concerned, I believe that this is one of the major challenges we are facing. I have said for a long time, and still believe, that the main challenges in combating crime now are not necessarily just about several dollars and more jobs, although we are increasing both with positions and educational capacity at the Police College, but that we are totally dependent on getting pulled together, both between the police districts and with other agencies. That's why we've set up the police councils, but that's also why we've taken the initiative we've now taken in relation to what we've called the intervention force, and where we have these regional projects. I am quite convinced that a lot of capacity has been released by cooperating in this way. That's why it's very important that we also get an information flow between the police, which makes it easier to operate that kind of cooperation. I heard the representative Ørsal Johansen say in his speech in the previous debate that investing in ICT would reduce operational capabilities. But it's actually the opposite. The ICT initiative will contribute, inter alia, to: improve information flow, introduce new criminal laws, have the possibility to carry out DNA work, among others. to other European countries. It's absolutely crucial. So to foreign criminals as sons in Norwegian prisons: Yes, we have taken a number of initiatives to secure reconciliation transfer agreements in addition to the Council of Europe Convention and Additional Protocols, among others. to Romania, I have said that in Stortinget before, but also to Serbia, and we are going to do so now during the Baltic Minister of Justice meeting to be held in a little bit. But ‘it takes two to tango’ — one has to be two to dance tango — we can’t dictate Romanian authorities, but we hope to get through in order to make reconciliation easier. When it comes to buying parking lots out, I'm fascinated by the idea, but I've asked a lot of people, and it's very small for sale, to put it nicely. They're full prisons. But that doesn't mean that we can't get better payoffs, and that we actually get free payoffs out there. That is what the redemption transfer will contribute to. So to use EEA funds, yeah, it's a big advantage if we can do it. That's why we have turned some of the EEA funds into, among other things. Criminal care in some countries where we have an interest in getting compensation transfers. Then I'm open to the debate in the future, not only in terms of the current day, but also in terms of what will be the future strategy against gangs, organised crime and mobile profit criminals, listening to the recordings that are coming. So the answer is yes to whether we want to join in and discuss it. That's what we're really doing here, so we have a good start and we have opportunities to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3294	This is an important debate. It may also be characterized by the fact that it embraces very wide now, from starting with MC criminals, the so-called one-percent environments, to mobile profit-criminals, possible violent extremists, burkas and niqabs, etc. I want to take from what was the basis of the interpellation, that is, the MC crime, that is, one percent times. Why is it so in Norway that we have been primarily ashamed of dramatic gang wars, except for the period 1995–1997, for example. The attack in Drammen happened? Why else have we managed to meet this threat in a good way in Norway? At least it looks like this when we look at the number of events. I've talked a lot to the police about it, and I feel that they've been nice, at least in the Oslo area for 20 years, to be very close to the environment. They have had a good overview, they are also in dialogue with the clubs, set limits for them, cooperate with the municipality so that the municipality uses what are municipal tools, and defines how these clubs have to act in order for the police not to intervene. And they intervene — by February at the latest, they did so, for example. a significant stockpiling of weapons in the HA environment, at the HA club in Oslo. The work to prevent recruitment to the gangs, i.e. to prevent these houses, the places around the country that are mentioned here, become places like other youth groups that can be attracted by these environments – hangarounds, as has been said – streaming to, is one of the most serious places that the police have taken, and they have been able to catch up with young people who have been on their way in and warn against it. I think we have better information. The police have had better information and been much closer to the environment we are talking about initially today than to some of the other serious crime that has been discussed later in the debate. In the case of Eastern European gang environments, in the case of mobile profit criminals, in the case of different ethnic gang environments, recruitments that have evolved over a long period of time, among others. Here in the city. I think it's important not to create too many myths, too, because if we're to monster some of these one-percent times too much, it can actually make them more attractive for some elements in Norway that have those sides. This may also lead to the fear of those who are going to testify, those who are going to give information to the police about these gangs. And one of those things in the talk of one-percent environments the recent time that I think we should take very seriously is the description of how they're able to scare witnesses, able to scare people from saying something about the business. The representative Octay Dahl said they could laugh at us. I think one of the things they've been able to laugh about is when they see that things the police's been working on, for example. serious drug issues have had to be eliminated because hidden information has not been able to be safely accessed because of the threats such as: these one-percent environments are capable of producing. So the follow-up to the NOU that's been out for consultation, from the Methodology Committee, which is about source protection, protection of witnesses, protection of other types of information that the police need to work with these kinds of environments, becomes a very important matter in relation to how we're going to work with organized criminal environments. Similarly, I think they'll laugh at us if we make mistakes when we're going to deal with traffic data storage issues. For example, if this happens in Norway, mobile profit criminals operate around the country, and we take them in one case and get a cell phone, that we're not able to track this back and go back for months, which we'll need to see how they've operated around the country, and to really roll it up, they'll laugh at us. So I think an important aspect of this is about methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3307	At Focus last week we saw a very obvious and then-present lawyer Storberget who was presented as a newfound school boy. I don't want to mention the state councils as either new-born or schoolboy, but one thing he should have: he wears his age well and hasn't changed much in the last 13 years! I agree with the Council of State in part of what he said in that focus programme, from 1997. He said that MC clubs have good social cohesion. He said that MC clubs and members of such clubs stand up for each other. That's true, and that's actually positive, in what I'm talking about as ordinary, good MC clubs. He also said something else wisely, the then lawyer Storberget: that one should not cut all clubs over one comb. That's absolutely right; we're not going to cut all clubs over one comb. They're all about, and as this interpellation is about, they're the so-called one-percent clubs, like HA, Bandidos, Outlaws, Coffin Cheaters plus their prospect and hangaround clubs. The present lawyer Storberget also said at the time that one should not destroy the social environment by creating more frustration in the environment. I don't entirely agree with that when lawyer Storberget. I also do not believe that the Council of State, Mr Storberget, agrees with that statement. It's about creating frustration for these clubs, it's about making them worried, it's about not giving them peace, so they're constantly under pressure and being kept under observation. The interpellant takes up the situation in Denmark and the war between HA and gangs with immigrant backgrounds in its interpellant. There is great reason to believe that this can spread to Norway as well. Whether this will lead to the situation between the different mafia clubs, as I will call them, eating up, or getting better cooperation between themselves, remains to be seen. Anyway, we're going to have a serious situation. What makes it extra bad is that these mafia clubs have their running legs that take the noise of the members of the clubs. It is difficult to link the individual member directly to actions. We also see that these clubs have social facilities to connect good relations with the local environment and society, and thus try to be harmless. We have to make it clear that these clubs are not harmless. There are criminal gangs behind drugs, violence and killing, and must be treated accordingly. I was in December 2009 in Montreal, where I, among other things, had a meeting with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and had a good conversation with the head of the orgrim department there. There they have a slightly special situation, the Italian Mafia, which is very strong in the United States and Canada. Cooperation between Hells Angels and the Italian Mafia has been established. It has even become that the Italian Mafia uses some of these clubs as their runners. This can also happen in Norway. We have Eastern European Mafia that is starting to become strong and powerful in Norway, and a situation where the criminal MC clubs, or the mafia clubs, get to cooperate with or become runners for this mafia, is a situation we can easily get. According to the Norwegian police, it has not yet happened, but they fear it, and it must be prevented by almost all means. We have not been able to prevent the establishment of these criminal environments in Norway. There we have to say we have failed. What we have to prevent are new establishments, and we have to try to remove the establishments that are. I look forward to the big news coming from organized crime. I look forward to a good debate on that big message, and I look forward to a good cooperation, where the whole Storting is fighting together against organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3324	The red-green government has for several years said that combating organised crime is a priority task. The size has provided cross-political support for this. However, we see that organized crime is increasing. Kripos, a police spearhead in the fight against organised crime, describes developments as follows: ‘The criminality picture in Norway is characterised by increased globalisation that has led to the influx of foreign criminal actors and networks, and foreign criminal groups are increasingly involved in organised crime.’ Behind this little bureaucratic language is an alarming situation description Kripos gives us. The police are making significant efforts in this area. But in the opinion of the Right, the police cannot solve this task entirely by themselves. It is in the nature of the matter that the fight against organised crime must be based on centralised, multidisciplinary and coordinated efforts at national level. Organised crime is a socially damaging activity, because it is built around a fundamental absence of humanity, for example. related to drug trafficking, money collection and prostitution. Furthermore, great economic values are involved, and we see that brutality is an important factor in creating loyalty internally in the environment, and fear of the environment. In this way, the environment creates jobs for its criminal activities. The NRK Focus on March 2 showed in a frightening way how one-percent-MC clubs effectively use fear as weapons. It was found that threats and various forms of pressure are used in relation to the judiciary as well. For every witness who is pushed to silence, it is easier for the organized criminals to continue their activities. For each municipality that sits quietly and only observes developments within its municipal boundaries, the gangs and gangs will only strengthen their foothold in society. Crime trends in Norway are often part of a pattern, where new forms of crime are first encountered in Sweden and Denmark, and then three to five years later we face the same challenges here at home. In our neighbouring countries, we have for a long time seen alarming brutalization and rivalry in the organized criminal environment. This reinforces the importance that we should already have a comprehensive strategy to meet this. In this way, we could put in place broad, preventive measures, while now we may be forced to establish a strategy that essentially needs to focus on firefighting, because development has already caught us. To meet this massive challenge, adhoc solutions, good intentions, or beautiful words are not enough. We should have had an overall strategy in place several years ago, a strategy involving more states than the police, for example. customs, tax and tax authorities and Nav. Local authorities also have an important place in such a strategy in relation to their unique opportunities to take local action. Business is also central to a comprehensive strategy to combat organised crime, not least to establish barriers to money laundering. At all events, efforts to prevent the illegal flow of money are a decisive factor in the success of this fight. The Minister of Justice has previously stated that the Stortinget will receive a news report on organised crime in the next session. In the right we wonder that this work has not been started before. Over the years, we have seen developments in the increase in organised crime. There has been cross-political agreement on the importance of combating this, and the Right therefore considers that there is reason to criticise the Government for not already having an overall strategy in place. This is not about money – not from the state, not at this stage. First of all, this is about the fact that, on the part of the authorities, we need to ensure that we organise our efforts towards socially harmful activities. That is why we invite from the Right to cross-political cooperation on this, in order to establish a robust bulwark against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3346	Norwegian citizens have the right to a peaceful life. It is a priority task for the SV and the Government to do everything we can to ensure the security and security of Norwegian citizens. That's why we've been high on the police. The police budget has almost doubled in recent years. Only in the time of the red-green government have we tripled the number of police students, increased the number of civil servants, strengthened the overall operation and introduced DNA reform. All of this makes the police better able to fight the crime that this is about. Let me start by saying that there are two groups of criminals who threaten our security: our own criminals and foreigners who are at ‘job’ in Norway. It's about doing a job in relation to both. With regard to our own, it is important to remember that the best fight against crime is to prevent. Earlier today, the Right-Representative Ivar Kristiansen was in the pulpit and quoted a former Prime Minister, who said, "Everything is related to everything." I think it was wise to say that. A cheap and accessible kindergarten, an engaging school, a well-developed leisure service for young people, a robust labour market, a non-racism society – all this is essential to keeping young people on the right track. That's a good fight against crime. Then it is the foreign criminals who have made life miserable for many people. Several police districts report the emergence of gangs. These criminals run from theft from villas and shops to human trafficking, drug trafficking, gross violence, money laundering, etc. They have to be taken seriously. That's what the Norwegian police are doing today. Borderless operation is an example of that. Asker and Bærum, Søndre Buskerud, Agder, Telemark and Vestfold police districts have merged and really tightened their grip. Here comes the government's efforts to strengthen the police well. What is needed now is to have a new way of thinking about combating crime in Norway. The police have to be able to think unbounded. They must be at least as borderless as the criminals. Increased, close, continuous cooperation across district boundaries must be achieved. Furthermore, police cooperation, both preventive and investigatory, must be borderless between countries. First of all, it is important that we be able to cooperate in Europe. A frontierless Europe has led criminals to travel around and engage in crime. Well, then, rich Norway is a good target. It is, as someone has said, a candy shop for them. It is essential that police authorities be able to cooperate across borders. There needs to be a better exchange of knowledge between them. But it is not just in Europe that this must happen. We know that crime really knows no borders: trafficking in human beings from Thailand and many other countries in the East and Africa, drugs come from Afghanistan and Latin America – here we really have to become frontierless. We need to have more agreements with other countries regarding the extradition of criminals – both ways. Of course, we cannot deliver people where they may be subjected to torture and death sentences, but there must be room for many more than today to be sent to their homeland without being subjected to torture and death sentences. It must be possible for agreements to allow the return of convicted foreigners to their homes for compensation. It will lower the pressure on the criminal services here at home, and I think it will be deterrent to a good deal. It is at all time that we are really discussing organised crime and important challenges. The Minister of Justice has announced a news report on organised crime, and I welcome it and look forward to it. And I want to say that I accept the invitation from the Right to a broader settlement, or discussion to reach agreement in the Storting. That's what we've done in the past in connection with the criminal welfare report, and we can do that now too. Here we have a common challenge, and we have to stand together to fight it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3369	The interpellant is raising an important debate on society's readiness to deal with gang wars, including those we've seen. in Copenhagen. The fight between Hells Angels and gangs with immigrant backgrounds has escalated to a level far above the MC war from just over ten years ago. It was a gang war that also put its mark on Norway. I myself was the rapporteur on my way home from work the night between 4 and 5 June 1997 when the clubhouse of Bandidos in my own neighborhood, Nybyen in Drammen, went in the air five minutes after I had passed. I remember it as if it were yesterday. As Drammen's Official Journal wrote: ‘In seconds, Konnerudgata was transformed into a war scene. I'm in the middle of a house. Violent fires. Blowout windows in hundreds of feet of perimeter. In the middle of the street, a car wreck burned out.» An innocent life was lost. Little Beirut was the word media used when they described the vision that met them in one of the Drammens until then peaceful settlements. The gang war ten to twelve years later, according to the Danish police, is much worse. It is more dangerous for outsiders. While the previous gang war took place between identifiable groups, today's image is more complex: still MC bands, but now towards a wider range of gangs associated with different criminal immigrant environments. It underlines the importance of preparedness. Denmark is not far away. Preparedness is about having thought carefully through how to act when crises occur. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. That makes sense. Government replies show that this is being taken seriously. The criminal MC settings in Norway are closely monitored. Much is done to prevent establishment and recruitment. Much indicates that to some extent we succeed. But the interpellation could have been worded differently: how can we prevent such gang states? Instead, the question could have been asked to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Then the answer could also have been weighted a little differently. At that time, the main thing could have been the importance of good local prevention and good national and local inclusion policies. The most important thing must be to prevent soil for recruitment. The Minister of Inclusion would also have had some good answers. The integration and inclusion action plan has been strengthened by each budget since 2007. Growth, education, language and participation are important areas of activity. The Norwegian inclusion policy has worked better than in many other countries. Although some people also prefer to focus on conflict and contradiction, we have a better starting point than both Sweden and Denmark. But we must also be aware of danger signals. It's such a danger signal when we see young people with immigrant background drop out of school and young adults are out of work, more often boys than girls. It's a danger signal when we see that social differences follow ethnic dividing lines. We have gene formations, but it's possible to break up the environments. In my own municipality, Drammen, immigrant town no. 2 after Oslo, we were early out with SLT work, coordination of local crime prevention measures, in routine cooperation between police and various municipal agencies. It gave results. Trends in reproducibility were immediately reduced, positive measures were put in place. Messages from Oslo, who tried in the Drammen, were effectively stopped before they managed to rot. A month ago, the Labour Party's municipal fraction was on urban migration in Greenland. There we happened to happen, or maybe not quite randomly, the Oslo Police Sanitation, seven policemen with a total of 220 years of experience, who could have taken out a pension, but who instead chose to go into a service that they felt was very meaningful. The senior patrol put the emphasis on being present, talking to people, without anything criminal happening. There are many of these examples. My main point is that a society with room for everyone is a society with less basis for recruiting criminal gangs. That's our best preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3392	We may be able to make a compromise on an interaction reform. There's been more than one discussion in the hall here. I hope that we can gradually negotiate outside this hall and reach a good agreement between the opposition and the position in terms of interaction to combat organised crime and the MC environments, which are negative. The representative Chaudhry mentioned some examples of what's good. Much of it's good, but I could take a new round on the DNA reform. We get into Prüm, but we don't deliver well enough at home. There we still have something to do. We see from the discussion that we had in place about professionalism in criminal matters, that an important part of that professionalism is that we have to have fewer unskilled, just because some of the foreign criminals put the staff in criminal custody to such a great test, not only in terms of enforcing security, but also to keep an overview of how they communicate with the outside world and actually run crime behind the walls and cooperate with them on the outside. We now see foreign prostitutes being subjected to gross abuse. The police assume that fighting for markets is closely related to fighting for market shares. It's a development that's scary, and we have to take over. We see that there are more weapons in circulation. Still younger gets hold of weapons in this town. There are more than enough danger signals on which such a negotiation with the opposition can be based. As far as the Police College is concerned, that's good. But there's a reason to look at the quality of the ones we're taking into the police in the future. The number is increasing, yes. The question is, are we getting people into the police now as fit as the ones we have today to deal with a more complex crime scene? The police can take a debate on later. It doesn't seem exactly that we get 1,100 new annual works as promised in 2009 and 2010. It's a minimum number if we're going to have an illusion of reaching our common targets on police coverage. I think, in conclusion, that there has been a good start to a debate. I hope, as I said, that we not only debate this in the big room, but that, following the pattern of what has been done to get a broad deal, maybe, if the cooperation reform – I hope it will come into place – we get very good right-wing policies, very good labour party policies, SV policies, progress party policies too, all in a good union, to ensure that we have the most consensus on a social problem that we have to fight. I perceive the Council of State there that he will take the initiative for such a dialogue, but hope more than just a dialogue over the pulpit here in the Stortinget. In fact, you can also formally invite the opposition leaders to make a settlement and find binding agreements on how to combat a social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3409	It's getting late, we're going to end up in peace. What we are left with the impression – and that is good – after this debate is that there is a common will to bet specifically on this type of crime that this point to. That is why I have said that this is so important to us that we are going to present a big message about it. We're not going to give a big message about everything we think is important, but this is more important than anything else. It is used, in particular by the representative of warp, as an argument that there is no overall strategy today. I'll take a great distance from that. Now, spending time coming to Stortinget with a document doesn't mean we don't have a strategy. I was about to say: rather on the contrary. It is not that we have started working on this when we inform Stortinget that we want to send a big message. One of the reasons we have established the effort force and these projects out there, which work very well, is because we have replication projects in Oslo that have been up and running for years, is that we have seen this challenge and tackled it. I think it is important to be able to have a general debate on the measures taken in the Grand Duchy to bring in new proposals, but also to increase political pressure against them, quite clearly. It's important. And then I get the impression when I hear about the interpellant Octay Dahl, that maybe the broad agreement is more important than the measures. I believe, of course, that the Government will have to a great extent its own responsibility and responsibility for the policy we are pursuing. I have said that I want a dialogue and a debate about this and welcome all the recordings. However, criminal policy is not initially shaped by broader settlements than what we are in the government parties. So I hope it's not necessarily going to shape the future debate on the work here. I have said and stand by that we are responsive to proposals. We will use every opportunity and perhaps also endeavour to become more concrete in relation to what kind of proposals that are Right-wing are to be implemented to combat this type of organised crime. We're susceptible to that. I would also like to discuss it in other forums than here, but so far I have to say that the input that has come has gone more in the process direction. But we are open and look forward to continuing the fight against this type of organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3420	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3434	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3450	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3466	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3482	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3498	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3515	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3528	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3536	During the debate, Mr Chaudhry put forward two proposals. It has not been notified of support for the proposals. I would not be surprised if the Left would support the proposals – but they are not here, and then they will not be able to support the proposals. Alternatively, between these proposals and the presidency's decision to II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3543	President! We intend to vote subsidiaryly in favour of the majority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3548	It has been set up in such a way that, as far as the presidency's position on I is concerned, voting will be taken up afterwards. I believe that the wish of Akhtar Chaudhry will be kept in proportion to that. But of course it has to be assessed. We can vote on the proposals of Akhtar Chaudhry if that is desirable. – So we're going to change the voting. The proposals for Akhtar Chaudhry are first voted on, then on the presidency's position for I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3575	There is a vote over the presidency's position on I and II – there should be no reason to split the vote. The Presidency had cancelled:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e3602	During the debate Siri A. Meling put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 3-5 of the Law on Renewable Energy Production at Sea is replaced by the following: Concessions under Sections 3-1 and 3-2 are granted for up to 50 years from the start of operation of the installation. [[Marine Energy Act]] [[Concession Decision, etc.]] The concession period may be extended upon application by the concessionaire.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4040	It will first be replaced by an alternative between the Committee's setting-up of Chapter 3, Section 3-5, second paragraph, and the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, then above the rest of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4055	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4065	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4073	During the debate Øyvind Håbrek has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a flexible parental leave of 68 weeks [[16 months]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4100	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. proposal No 2, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to restore and extend the pilot scheme with local responsibility for the child protection service and to facilitate the possibility for all municipalities, either on an independent basis or through inter-municipal cooperation, to apply for participation in such an experiment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4124	The President will then alternately vote between the Committee's nomination and proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the division of labour between the Municipal Child Welfare Service and the Children’s, Youth and Family Budget in order to transfer tasks from the Bufetat Regional Offices to the municipalities.’ [[Bufetate]] The Committee had ceased: Document 8:18 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4159	In Case No: 6-11 there is no voting theme
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4167	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4175	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4183	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4191	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 4 March 2010: ‘The government is asked to facilitate inter-municipal cooperation in order to meet its tasks instead of the proposed scheme with the county council.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4211	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 4 March 2010: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the regulation, cf. the first paragraph of Section 49 of the Vergemålgesetz, so that the amount limit is changed to NOK 250 000 for which the government is to take over the management of financial assets.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4230	There is a vote on the proposals made by Mr Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Left, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 4 March 2010: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in order to clarify the extent to which minors can conclude agreements obliging them to subsequent payments, subscription obligations and the provision of personal information without the approval of the courts.’ The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-11.ana.ud725e4317	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
