ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e76	Four permit applications are available: – From the representatives Gjermund Hagesetter and Ola Borten Moe on leave from 12 January to 26 March – both to attend a master’s course at the Defence College. – From the Workers' Group on sick leave for representatives of Martin Kolberg from 12 January onwards. – From the representative of Geir Pollestad on welfare leave from 13 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Kjell Børre Hansen For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For the Province of Rogaland: Arne Bergsvåg For the South-Trundellag County: Heidi Greni
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e126	Kjell Børre Hansen, Torkil Åmland and Heidi Greni are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e140	The background for each year's Stortinget getting Meld. St. 4 from the Prime Minister's office and for the position that exists today from the Control Committee, we find in Stortingen's Rules of Procedure, Section 12, second paragraph, No. 9b. It is assumed that the Government will submit an annual notification of the follow-up to the request and investigation decisions of the Stortinget. The notification shall briefly explain what the Government has done — or intends to do — with the decisions. A unanimous committee stresses that the experience of the notifications is positive. It is important to ensure that the decision of the Grand Duchy is followed up and that the Grand Duchy is given the opportunity to monitor the progress made in the implementation of each decision. Let me add that the Committee also pays tribute to the Government for the form chosen for feedback in the annual budget proposals. It is important that we also get a comprehensive overview of the request decisions there. It also facilitates the control of the Committee. Report of the year. St. 4 is transparent and clear. SMK has obtained opinions from all departments. In the 2008-2009 session, 35 request decisions were taken and no investigation decisions were taken. The Committee has chosen to comment on the Government’s response to the decisions which the Committee considers require further follow-up. The Committee shall take the other replies to the information. It is also the case that, after the year’s examination, two decisions remain from 2007–08 and one from 2006–2007. In one place, the Control and Constitutional Committee has shared. It concerns Decision No. 402 of 13 March 2008, to ask the Government to impose a seat requirement on schoolchildren in school kisses by bus. Here, after an assessment, the Ministry of Transport has not yet planned to impose such a requirement – and I emphasise it for the time being. However, the Ministry will follow up the matter through dialogue and cooperation with the county councils and other relevant actors according to what is said to the committee. The government parties in the control committee refer here to the majority of the Transport and Communications Committee, i.e. the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, as in the Innst. 13 S for 2009–2010 asks the Government to assess changes in legislation to ensure that all school students are entitled to a seat on the school bus. There is then a reference on the part of the other parties to proposals that have been submitted. Finally, let me underline what a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitution said when dealing with the suspension of the Frøiland Committee, namely that decisions which are clearly and unambiguously a decision requiring a specific action can only be amended by a new decision in the Storting. If the Government cannot – or will not – follow up a decision, it is the Government that has to file a new case for the Storting, and then with proposals for a new decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e159	A few comments related to a few of the issues mentioned in the vote. First, Decision 484 of 16 June 2009. The majority asked the Government to ensure that all parties dealing with neck injuries must comply with WHO guidelines by using ICD-10 coding and ICF for the use of DRG and diagnosis, treatment, follow-up, damage rate, law and insurance. The Ministry writes in its feedback, among other things. the code work is adapted to the need for an overview of an overall help need and is not suitable for specifying the condition of the individual patient and therefore considers that the decision has been followed up. This feedback shall be notified to the majority of the Committee. On our part, however, we cannot see that the decision has been fulfilled, nor does it encourage the Government to have the decision reversed, if this is not feasible. So for this with the school student's right to seat on a school bus. Here there are some different comments from the opposition and the government parties. The majority of the Committee, which is composed here of the opposition, acknowledges that the Government has assessed the possibility of imposing a seat order on schoolchildren in school kisses, but we disagree with the Ministry's conclusion. The Government Parties also state that an assessment has been made of the possibility of imposing an order in line with the wording of the Decision. It is recorded from their point of view that the Government does not intend to impose such a ban, but at the same time underlines that the purpose of the assessment must continue to be to change current practice. The Government parties are obviously not satisfied with the Government's conclusion, and they refer to the technical position of the Transport and Communications Committee, in which, in the form of a comment, the Government is asked to consider changes in the legislation to ensure that all school students are entitled to a seat on a school bus, on which the case-rapporteur was also involved. I cannot interpret this differently than that a total increase, with something different from the approach, asks the Government to reconsider this, which I am very satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e170	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1479]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e186	The National Audit Office’s report on the follow-up of previous administrative audits by the departments provides important information on the results of the Stortingen treatment. This year's report refers to 14 administrative audits, nine of which are closed and five are followed. In general, I have the impression that the department is addressing the weaknesses the Riksrevision points out and loyally tries to improve the situation. However, concluding a case does not necessarily mean that everything is very well. The question of hospital resource use will, for example: be followed up in the annual company control of the National Audit Office, as are the material investment projects in the Defence Office. When the 2008 audit reveals that 11 out of 25 investment projects have been delayed by more than one year compared to the initial level, there is every reason to keep focus on this issue. The Committee shares the opinion of the National Audit Office that this should be done in the context of the annual audit. With regard to the matters that the National Audit Office chooses to keep open, I find reason to point out that the objective of ensuring ecological and economic sustainable clean-up is as topical today as when the Stortingen dealt with the matter barely five years ago. Although a number of measures have been taken, much remains to be done before the target can be said to have been achieved. An overall committee is pleased that the Riksrevision is following this development. The business burden on business has been on the political agenda for many years. The size has asked for work to be intensified several times, but the results are not yet good enough to bring the case to a close. With regard to the 2007–2010 escalation plan, not all actions in the plan have been implemented. Since the period for this phasing-in plan has not yet expired and consequently a final evaluation of the effects of the measures in the plan cannot be carried out, the matter should be kept open. This is also the case for investigating the achievement of targets in criminal justice. A joint follow-up plan has been drawn up for the parallel audit between the Russian and Norwegian national audits of the management and control of the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. It is important to ensure close cooperation between Norway and Russia on the exploitation of fishing resources in the north. An overall control committee is therefore satisfied that the Riksrevision will follow the case further. In summary, the Committee is pleased with the Riksrevision’s assessment of which reports can be scrutinised, which reports should be followed in the annual review and which should be mentioned in future reports on the follow-up of administrative audits addressed by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e205	Some brief comments also in this case. I would like first of all to express my satisfaction at the fact that a unanimous committee emphasises that simplification of the business-to-business form will continue to be of high priority and intensity. Although this work has produced positive results, and even if other comparable countries can distinguish with as much costs as Norway, this should not be an excuse for this important work to be stepped down. The economy continues to have significant costs with the completion of both necessary and unnecessary forms. Then to the atoning cows. The National Audit Office expresses satisfaction with the significant reduction in the number of settlement queues and the need for the Ministry of Justice and Police to evaluate the administration of the criminal justice system. However, greater use of individual plans for the jurisdictions is requested and questions about the absence of such plans may weaken the objective of an individually organised settlement. On our side, we are also satisfied that the housing queues are significantly reduced. However, we are very sceptical that criminal penalties have been used as the most important measure to bring down the queues. This gives a completely wrong signal to lawbreakers. We would therefore like to stress that the extension of settlement capacity is a much better tool than a penalty rebate, and that this sends out a loud and clear signal that crime should not pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1479]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e232	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1479]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e248	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1480]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e264	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1480]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e280	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1480]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e296	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1480]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e312	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1480]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e330	I want to start by presenting this project and say a little about the story behind what has happened. Ten years ago, Ullern's high school in Oslo was threatened with demise because there was no one who wanted to go to it. The dropout was enormous, and it was strange that such a school would come out so crooked. Today completes 90 pst. in Ullern high school, and in several of the tests it is ranked as the fourth best school in the country. There are many things that have led the Ullern to go from what it was ten years ago until what it is today, like, for example. good management and good teachers. There's a lot that has affected this. But that's what's happening now, which I want to address in this interview, that's a collaboration between Oslo Cancer Cluster, the Radium Hospital and Ullern High School. There is a building project going on – building these three together also physically – but cooperation between them has been going on for a long time. The idea is to link a research environment with top medical researchers together with a higher-level educational environment, where researchers can guide both teachers and students, and where students can be involved in the development of the various research projects. In addition, here we have the Radium Hospital, which is a top hospital in the field, which is also involved in developing this environment within the two disciplines of real science and health and social sciences. Here, students get to follow research projects, they get to be involved and contribute, and they get access to everything, the very best and the highest in the field. It has also led to an agreement with McKinley Technology High School in Washington, where both students and teachers will exchange educational projects and other projects, and they will be linked to Oslo Cancer Cluster and up against the Radium Hospital, which also leads to students trying to work in English, and teachers developing both professionally and linguistically. It is also exciting because health and social education is an area where we have had weak recruitment, and it has very often also been linked to the weak status of the profession. By creating such projects, you get a high-quality school project, where you get the highest contribution to students. What's so good about this project? I think, first of all, that giving status to research dissemination is a very important ideological part of this, because in very many countries, and also in Norway, disseminating research has had much lower status than doing research. I had a friend that I remember was in Hungary 20 years ago, and who, when he went to the street in Budapest, met one of his fellow professors, and this professor said he was a little busy, because he was going to a elementary school and teaching in his subject. So my friend asked, do you teach at high school, you who are top professor at the university? Well, in Hungary, everyone had to teach at all levels once a year, and now he had his day in high school. I don't want to go for such a reform, but I have a very good mind for it. It's about using the very best to teach the youngest. And giving status to dissemination, to giving status to using top researchers at our universities and our colleges to disseminate research also to the youngest, I think is a project that in itself gives status. The other is about the dropout. We've discussed here in the Chamber that we need to put in a series of measures to get rid of the dropout. To help create projects where business and real life come close to school, such as: can experience it by putting a health and social discipline close to a hospital, making people from the first day know what their working life is, and that the motivation, which may be about wanting to take care of people, wanting to work with people, wanting to have that role, jumps out of something other than just dealing with school books. So I think that after Reform 94, we have taken away something that was valuable, sail if it's a little sévinistic. It's about professional pride, that you can be a little sévinistic on behalf of your own subject. When I was a high school teacher in history and in social sciences, I told my liner students that studying social sciences was the best thing you could do. We were the ones who could do a little bit more, we were the ones who understood a little bit more than everyone else. We built up a small, professional sévinism within our classroom, which was about us doing something that the others couldn't do. I think it's an important part of building up pride related to the subject and related to the profession. Much of what we have lost in many of the reforms after Reform 94 is about making so wide fans that it almost doesn't suit a teacher to be a little sévinistic in the classroom based on his own subject. Therefore, I think it is important to see whether, through such types of projects, we can link professional life and school life so closely that professional pride, professional pride and some servinism in relation to the subject we are working on can help to develop and recruit for the subjects we are talking about. The fourth is to be involved in professional development. We who travel around to companies experience that many are listed as apprentices who have received a good schooling in themselves, but the subjects evolve so quickly that the teachers are unable to join in all parts when they do not receive the professional supplement. Clearly, developing a school in such a close relationship with business will also make it more inspiring and easier for teachers to hang out with. I think that if you're going to put together a team of professionals, it must be absolutely amazing to be able to do it in such a kind of collaboration as what we see at Ullern. You get good teachers. In Oslo, from which this example is taken, it's like all the schools are just a tram ticket away from very important professional environments and very big businesses. Why not get more projects like that on Ullern? There are also many things happening around the country, not just on Ullern. I've been to Oppdal high school. There has been a dramatic decline in close business cooperation. At Byåsen School in Trondheim they have a car repair shop at one end of the school and a nursing home at the other end. But I imagine there might be a lot of other projects like this. Why are there no media lines attached to a newspaper house or a radio house? Why are there no more nursing homes linked to higher education in the health and social field? Why are there no more craft training in close association with craft companies? My question to the Council of State is: how are we going to stimulate more such projects? How are we going to stimulate development that makes schools dare to think that way? How are we going to get research environments and other professional environments to see the status of communicating to the youngest, linking our very best researchers to the dissemination to those students who really need motivation and to see that this subject is exciting to work within – those who are in our primary and secondary schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e358	If I were to give one answer in one sentence, that's what Step Skei Grande contributes by putting this interpellation, that's spreading the good examples. I think the example of Ullern is just going to help inspire others to think a little bit in the same paths. But let me come back to the specific question that came up, and just go through the matter a little bit first. I am very positive about the kind of cooperation projects that Oslo Cancer Cluster and Ullern have, a collaboration with local business. Through this cooperation, the interpellant has just developed that combining research environments, hospitals and businesses in the local environment is able to achieve something that, in total, is more than just putting them on top of each other. It develops something new and is a very exciting, relevant and important learning venue for a lot of young people who are so lucky to get in there. There are also important and major issues in the world context with which they work. It's about health, and it's almost impossible to imagine that one can manage to find combinations that, what to say, have so many possibilities for headlines around the country. But that doesn't mean that this isn't a good idea that can well be exchanged into other types of headlines. Fortunately, there is nothing new in Norwegian school that local working life cooperates with schools and educational institutions. Experience has shown that cooperation between school and working life has brought much positive results in training. Good cooperation between working life and school helps students to better understand what work is all about, to enable businesses to demonstrate the kind of skills they need, to learn the benefits of acquiring knowledge, and to better understand what can be used by a teacher when he comes to work later. And that's one of the things I often meet with students -- well, we're sitting here, now I'm almost done with high school, now we've been on for 13 years, but it's just a preparation for what's real life, it's not real life. That's how many students actually perceive their own schooling, and precisely this kind of cooperation projects are involved in making education and education relevant. I would encourage municipalities and county councils to take advantage of the opportunities to cooperate with local enterprises, public enterprises, higher education institutions. There are several good examples to learn from here, both on cooperation with individual enterprises and on how counties have organised themselves with a view to systematic cooperation between the education sector and the labour market. Through the Oslo Cancer Cluster project, training can be made more practical and geared towards reality. It will create interest in learning, which in turn increases the possibility of more people completing their education and may be motivated to choose a profession other than what they would otherwise have done. It is good that the companies involved in the project aim to offer relevant apprenticeships, which may otherwise be a very great challenge to provide enough of them. This will address additional challenges by extending cooperation to a common platform also with the research environment. It will be exciting to learn how it works for high school students. Closer cooperation between school and working life is a very important theme in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line. We propose, among other things: where a new Entrepreneurship Action Plan and the development of guidance material on how to work with entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship training helps the school to become more practical and real-life for its students. Entrepreneurship enables the use of varied learning arenas, which can be realized in a good way through school and working life cooperation. We will strengthen cooperation between working life and the education sector by means of deep-sea projects, which are part of professional educational choices. In addition, formal cooperation between school and working life in the field of vocational and vocational training is in a special position. Through the educational choices and the labour market experiment, I believe that we have also facilitated good cooperation between school and youth. Of course, such cooperation needs to be adapted locally. There is a need for the county councils to develop closer cooperation with local employment. The countries themselves need to think through how they can work together with local enterprises and other institutions to provide more practical and motivating training. This creates more vocational training, which is also important to ensure the recruitment of skilled workers to local employment in order to meet the needs of the labour market. The experience acquired by students through contact with the labour market may result in a greater interest in learning in both theoretical and professional subjects. This interest is something the school can build on, among other things. to counteract non-response. Local cooperation between working life and education is also under way in some disciplines. In this context, I can mention the Lecturer II project, which started at 40 schools. In that project, the main idea is that representatives of the business community, e.g. engineers, part-time instructors at school to contribute professional competence and relevant real-time vocational training to improve understanding of the use of real-life skills in the workplace. In Lecturer II, it is primarily so that representatives of the labour market come to school, but there are also different local solutions in this project. Many cooperation projects can be promoted as good models for others. In More and Romesdal, close cooperation is established between the county municipality and the company Brunvoll AS, which is appointed as a demonstration teaching organisation. I can mention Hordaland and Eastfold as other states where there is much to learn. Through the Good Circles project in Hordaland, the municipalities of Sund, Öygarden and Fjell work together to improve the link between school, society and local work in the regions — so that students understand how the subjects are used in practice — and at the same time increase the possibility of realistic career choices. In Eastfold, cooperation between larger enterprises throughout the education cycle has improved, from primary, secondary, post-secondary to tertiary. All parties are really very satisfied with it, and it has contributed to a more sustainable and development-oriented community. Examples of tools they use are fatherhood, close cooperation with secondary education through projects for depression, entrepreneurship, the apprenticeship system, and through practice and professional cooperation with higher education. In all cooperation projects, the school’s need to meet skills objectives in the fields is very central. The aim is to provide students with increased learning outcomes, to stimulate interest and to provide a better understanding of the benefits they will receive from their future work. Such good forms of cooperation also contribute to the development of teachers' skills, which was also discussed by the interpellant. The interpellant asks if I want to facilitate and contribute to the realisation of projects like Oslo Cancer Cluster. I would like to sum up by saying that I am very positive about this type of project, where schools develop cooperation with different social actors either within the business community or with higher education institutions or universities or research environments. There is nothing to prevent legislation or support schemes from launching such work. I think the most important thing I can do is show you the good examples. Because I think success factor number. 1 in order to be able to establish this kind of project like Oslo Cancer Cluster and Ullern is, there are some local, some fires, which are excited that this is a good idea, and that gives everything, and more than anything, and bites itself into the idea, inspires others and makes it work together. So the most important job for me and I believe for the Storting in general, and all the big business representatives who are concerned about this, is to inspire you to light up that spark locally, where you see what opportunities you have around you. Because there will be many places in the country where it's not possible to cooperate with a radiation hospital or a research environment of the calibre we're talking about here. But the whole point is to start from what you've come close to, to get better cooperation. I have too much sense of the thinking that some countries have that researchers have a duty to share their knowledge with small and large ones. I think this dissemination of research is an extremely important part of applied research in a society. Because it's not necessarily just about narrow individual projects to solve a little problem, it's about raising the understanding and knowledge of a whole society. In addition, I think it's incredibly funny for professors and others to grow up on the family, because you're asked questions that are very useful to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e394	I thank you for your answer. I had assumed that the Council of State was on the team here, but it's always nice that you are. I'll start with the last thing the Council of State said. The fact that such projects are made is, of course, about fires, that there are people who want to make this connection, and those fires are most often found in research. That's the ones that have to stretch down. Hands at high school are often ready to accept. That's why I think it's important to have this interpellation, because ferrets should also be seen when they make such an effort. In Norway, we have some artistic environments that practice this by letting the very best teach the youngest. One of the schools that use that pedagogy is Barratt Due, which takes absolutely all first places. Not only do they get Melodi Grand Prix winners, but they also clean up international competitions. The whole philosophy behind their pedagogy is to use the very best for the youngest. I think we should have had more pilots, not just on Ullern, because scientists have spread quite well around the country. There are many research institutions around the country, and not so many of them work very closely with the school environment below their own level, which they might have enjoyed. So maybe we should stimulate a few more pilots, like Ullern is, and start from different research environments to make the researchers become the heroes. Because it's in a society where scientists become heroes that you really manage to stretch forward. Where researchers are dusted older gentlemen, as they are often in Norway, who sit in confined offices and do not want to tell what they've come up with, to people who don't have as many weights or study scores as they do, we get a society that goes down. If we can make the scientists and the intermediaries of that kind of knowledge heroes, if the nerds become heroes in a community, we know that we can get on with it. And I expect the Prime Minister's New Year speech to agree with that, too. So my question and the follow-up to the Council of State is, how can she help and stimulate that we can get some more Ullern's around the country? How can you stimulate several smaller projects in higher education schools around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e409	I think the most important thing we can do, in addition to drawing out the Uller, is – as I also tried to express in my answer – to see the projects that exist elsewhere in the country, even though they are not located right up to a university hospital or a research environment in exactly the same way. Because this has to be done in a slightly different way. I also believe that the basic position, which was also discussed by the interpellant, is extremely important. All the research shows that we get the most left to invest in the youngest. What I can learn if I sign up at the university now to take further education is certainly enormous, but that a three-year-old, a four-year-old, a five-year-old and a ten-year-old have the opportunity to learn is infinite. When it comes to having an attitude in society that we all have a responsibility to inspire the growing family so that you grow, get in, get interested and experience things that are relevant, I think we actually have a lot left in many environments. The apprenticeship system in Norway is really quite unique. Many companies see that they have a self-interest, but also take social responsibility by providing apprenticeships and following up. Many others do so by offering fathers in connection with practical letters. It's some of the same kind of responsibility. The parody of a professor, a dusty older gentleman who sits in a hook with his weights and rubs on them, is probably no longer a reality, because there are many scientists participating. On the school side, many are involved in the educational situation as well. But there could be more people doing just that, and they're in. I'd say that incredibly many environments had had very good of it themselves. Because you get sharpened in another way when you're forced to answer questions you may not have asked yourself in ten, five, or two years. I am absolutely sure that those professors in Hungary who have a forced day in high school will get something back from there that they think about further. So I think there's a point in itself that teachers get filled up by this kind of cooperation without having to decide to take on further education, because they're in an environment where you're automatically updated by having close contact with researchers and business. This, of course, does not mean that we should stop continuing training, on the contrary. It just means there's going to be an extra effect on the entire learning environment. So I'm not sure if there's any syvinism or ability to share knowledge with which you might get the best out of it -- it's probably a mixture, that you're aware of what you can contribute in one community, but at the same time, the ability to exploit the other is also very exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e422	First, I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for bringing up an exciting topic. How we organise the school of the future is absolutely one that interests politicians and that interests this room. Ullern School is an exciting example. There will be a unique opportunity for students to interact with one of Norway’s strongest centres of expertise. You get the opportunity to meet researchers, participate in exciting projects and develop in a completely unique way. But it is still the case that the organisation itself is not a guarantee of success. I think that much of what has happened at Ullern school until today is an example that it is at least as much about good school management and – as the council and the interpellant were in it – about fires, people who drive, who want something. The interpellant was also concerned that eight years ago Ullern school had only nine primary applicants, and Vice-Chancellor Pál Riis has been a driving force for a great transition at school, which today has become one of Oslo's most sought after schools, and a national demonstration school. The school has had a vision that Ullern should be first class. They have this clear, despite a difficult starting point and a bad reputation among students in the Oslo School. Now completes over 90 pst. by the students. The focus is on individual adaptation, and the school also focuses on individual student character development. I think that's important too. One of the things that makes me think that new Ullern school in the new building has a very great chance of success is the physical proximity – that one actually organizes Oslo Cancer Cluster, the food park and Ullern high school in one and the same building. It won't be a building where you're divided into different sections, but a building where you have to move across, where you're forced to interact, be in the same environment with a common canteen area, meet each other in the passages. I think it's this meeting between people who have the opportunity to make this school completely unique, and that makes it a very special environment. The cooperation that links higher education and enterprise is unique, but without strong school management focusing on the learning of students, this will not necessarily contribute to raising students and the school. I agree with the interpellant that we should seek to facilitate such cooperation in several places, but I would also warn against believing that finding a cooperation agreement with an enterprise or a research centre itself will solve things. Schools and school management have to have a plan – they have to want something with what they do. I also find it exciting that Ullern gives you the opportunity to think about your career for a longer time – you get the opportunity to see yourself in a larger context. Here you can see that people taking the usual nursing profession, ordinary electrical education, also have a role to play in industrial development, research and higher education. Here you can see that it is not just research and higher education that is the only important and right choice, but that it is also possible to do that kind of thing later in life. I agree with the interpellant that it is important to have professors as heroes, but it is also important to have people at other levels as heroes – have engineers and professionals as heroes and be clear about their role in society. And then I'd like to say that it's important that you don't get too specialised. It's important that when you go to Ullern School, you don't think cancer research is the only thing you have to do. It must continue to be the case that higher education should give the students the basic competence to succeed in life, to be able to make their own choices later, and that the knowledge should be owned by the student.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e439	We in the Progress Party are extremely positive about the project between Ullern High School and Oslo Cancer Cluster. There's a unique combination between a learning arena and a research arena that we think will strengthen both. This is the first one, but hopefully not the last one in Norway. The unique feature of this offer is that students are given the opportunity to put theory into practice. They are given the opportunity to see that the theory they are learning at school is not just something that is there – which is different from business – but is actually an important and essential part of their future. At the same time, cooperation, both for competence and innovation, is important for the OCC. Norway cannot compete on price and quantity, but we can compete on quality. I think it's going to have positive consequences for OCC too to relate to students, because the skills of the students who are allowed to be there are going to be strengthened and raised. The representative Skei Grande was concerned with the importance of combating high school drop-outs. Last night there was a lookup in our country with research results that showed that half of the students who are not very motivated at school say that the work with youth enterprises and practice work is meaningful and also makes them interested in the subjects at school. It is important that we see many other cooperation projects in Norway, which were also addressed by the State Council of Halvorsen. We in the Progress Party are very concerned about that, and we see this as a great example. Young entrepreneurship is a driver on a national basis in view of precisely this type of work and involves over 100,000 young people in youth enterprises and such activities. We are very positive to them, and we want, among other things. a strengthening of UE. The State Council of the Halvorsen was concerned that we have to invest in the youngest, that we should be allowed to be good, and that we should also have heroes in society to look up to. She also mentioned that there is still a lot to be done here, and we in the Progress Party agree on that. The problem in today's school community is that it's not as good to be the good one, it's not always encouraged to be the best. One of the reasons for this is that today's school system is based on the fact that we're going to be the same. We're going to have the same education, we're going to have the same education, and we have the same starting point. We in the Progress Party think exactly what the representative Skei Grande spoke about: the importance of having heroes in school and something to stretch towards. It is also important that the good students are allowed to be good, that they are allowed to develop their potential, that they have additional challenges, and that they are allowed to claim themselves. Such projects as this are important when it comes to the fight against dropouts in high school. Here, state councilman Halvorsen boasted that the companies have been good at taking their social responsibility. Unfortunately, we believe that the public has not been as good. We're looking at it on a national basis today. There are 34,500 apprentices. Under 2,000 of these have apprenticeship places in municipalities, municipal enterprises and county municipalities. The public has failed its responsibility to offer secondary education to opt-outs, who want to become apprentices and receive vocational letters. Here, it has a long way to go in providing pupils with apprenticeships. We also need to stimulate companies to take in more apprentices. We see that the intake of apprentices is often seasonal. It swings with the recessions. Now, when we're in a recession, we see that the intake of apprentices is decreasing. We need to stimulate companies to take in more, and cover the real costs of taking in apprentices – which are not being done today. So the apprenticeship grant needs to be increased, while we think we should look at a good idea like NHO, among other things. contribute to the development of start-up capital for enterprises that want to transform into apprenticeships, so that we stimulate more enterprises to open up to take in apprentices at all. I just want to say that this project is very exciting. We regard it as very important in the fight against non-response to initiate such types of projects, and we hope that the Halvorsen Council of State – and the rest of the Government – is also positive and wants to facilitate this also in several places in the country, both in the context of the method we see here, with physical links, and with the background of several projects in which industry is allowed to participate and enter and contribute to both secondary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e458	The interpellant has focused on what must be said to be a history of sunshine from everyday school life, and which the Right hopes can be a great inspiration for others as well. When it looked as darkest for Ullern high school, the sleeves were folded, and the school is about to open up completely new avenues of secondary education in Norway. The cooperation agreement which ensures the central role of Ullern secondary school in the development of the Oslo Cancer Cluster Innovation Park is new school-policy work nationally — yes, probably internationally as well. The project is a result of creative and initiative-rich people both in school, research and business, where Ullern secondary school has received full backing from its school owner, Oslo Municipality. There's good reason to brag such offensive initiatives, and there's perhaps something a little unhealthy about what's happening now. From the Right, it is very gratifying that we can now get such a bet in the intersection of real science, entrepreneurship and health. We need more real-time candidates in the future, and initiatives like this are very welcome. In the view of the Right, there should in principle be no difference between the cultivation of top-level sport and the cultivation of real subjects, as in this project, and the provision of insights into and the possibility of discovering the exciting world of research in higher education. I think this can be an important motivation for more people to want to do a research career in real-time and medical disciplines. The cooperation with Oslo Cancer Cluster is a win-win situation in which the real-time teachers at Ullern secondary school are also ensured systematically on an annual basis. It must be said to be unique in the Norwegian context. The work community between students, teachers, researchers and other employees in the Oslo Cancer Cluster Innovation Park will provide opportunities for all parties to learn from each other, and for the students this will provide valuable close contact with the working life they themselves are going to have in not too many years. Many students say they have problems seeing the benefits of what you're going to learn. This project has in itself made it easier to see both the social benefits and the self-benefit of schools. Here theory and practice can go hand in hand also in subjects that have traditionally been considered theoretical subjects. Governments were concerned that county councils should have good cooperation relations with industry and the labour market. I very much agree with that. In this way, the Municipality of Oslo and the City Council of Torger Ødegaard appear as both offensive and innovative. I also assume that awake county councils, with the mention and the interest that has been around this project, have been most closely involved in both the plans for Oslo Cancer Cluster Innovation Park and what this means for Ullern high school, and are looking for similar opportunities and projects in themselves. Nevertheless, it is important that the Ministry and the Council of State can closely follow this project and ensure evidence of what is now developing, so that the experience gained here can be disseminated and spent at an appropriate time by the rest of the School of Norway. I think, as this is new crime, it's important that we not only let it sail its own seas, but that we actually care about the processes that are going on and the learning that are happening, and how this can actually be enriched and initiate something completely new in higher education. Oslo youth at the right age will receive a unique school offer in a few years' time, and I'm pretty sure there can be a major tear about these school places, even after the significant student enlargement adopted for this school. So I want all the parties involved to be happy with the realization of the Oslo Cancer Cluster Innovation Park, and I see with great excitement what the rest of Norwegian school can learn from the exciting project that is now taking shape.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e481	I also belong to those who think this is very positive and exciting. What we are now giving attention to is some of the exciting and important development work that is taking place in Norwegian school today. These include: important with regard to the issue of waste, of which we are all so concerned. I want to start from my own home country, Uppland, and not least District Uppland. As we all know, it is particularly difficult to provide good and competent education in small district schools. Being a teacher here is getting a little lonely, and it gets a little bit vulnerable. One compensatory tool then is to open up the school door and start interacting with society. That's exactly what we have an example of here. It's very positive that we now see that it's possible to solve a little bit on the structure here, so that we can do this in a more flexible and good way, for example. where we have four years of education; that we don't have to think almost mechanically two plus two, but that from the very beginning we can connect social life and school life and make it a good education for the teacher and for the student. A little bit more about the teacher: One of the problems of being a teacher in such small schools is that it is difficult to keep up to date professionally. One way to do this is to interact with just business and society and thus get a bigger environment in which you can train. We notice very strongly in Uppland that this is also good for local business and society, because traditionally both business and social life have been – it's a bit violent to say it, maybe – a bit educationally hostile. It has not given status to being busy with school and reading and studying. But just by getting an insight into how the school works, business and society also gain an increased understanding of the importance of this activity. A concrete example from Uppland, and then I go from District Oppland to the town of Lillehammer, is linked to a study-preparing study offer where one has submitted something in addition to the cultural subject, which is why it is also called the ‘culture class’. In addition to the study-preparing activities, a collaboration with the business community has been initiated in connection with photography, dance, visual arts and music. One has got an interaction between the students and the teachers involved in the preparatory course and the business and social life here, and thus achieved that the students have a social competence, including on study-preparing lines, which they would not otherwise have had. They get a little bit of "salt in the food" as students. And the teachers involved in preparatory studies also have the opportunity — in addition to those who are often focused, those who are involved in vocational preparation — to improve their interaction with the industry and society to which the school is linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e494	I would like to thank you for the debate. It's good that here we can also discuss things we want, and not always discuss things as we don't want them, sail if it's possible to see clear political distinctions in a debate like this about what we focus on in such kind of cooperation. I want to make it clear that it might look like it's just the school that serves this. But I was a little inspired by Aksel Hagen that business around can also benefit from this, especially in the districts, where the schools are really a business of competence. I have been a high-level teacher in a district where business began to discover what competence it was in high school, and which also began to enter into agreements to purchase parts of that competence. For example, all the language skills in higher education are important for many companies working in an international market. This led to years of very high teacher pay because the teachers earned so much extra. I think that's amazing. But it also means that business has a lot to do with understanding the competence of a secondary school in a district, and with the ability to connect and exchange skills. I think it's a great potential to do something here, but if you're going to do it, the fire souls who want to stand for this, get a pat on their shoulders and hear that what they're doing is right. My attempt at this interpellation was to give a slap on the shoulder to those who are at Ullern high school and to find out that this is important and correct. Perhaps more people are looking at this type of project again, and can see that this is something that we, as national school politicians, think it should be stimulated and facilitated. Maybe it's going to lead to someone in our parties who's sitting and planning colleges locally, planning them in a slightly different way than they would have done with just traditional work. I hope that the Council of State will also contribute to a good deal so that this will spread around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e503	The interpellant Trine Skei Grande, by taking up this example, has helped to give those who are behind, a pat on their shoulders. Then we've read on with a few more examples from a little more places in the country – which I hope also feel inspired to be mentioned from the Great Council chair, and which will be in the minutes for ever. But the whole point is that if you can find ways where school and work can work together better and find ways to combine research environments, you can create some learning environments and connect some environments that everyone will earn. I think there are too many places where there is far too little contact between different environments — that the school environment is one environment, that the entrepreneurs are doing something else, and that there is too little exchange of skills between different venues. Even in very small local settings, it may not be possible to see which opportunities and competences are very close. So I think it's very important to get your eyes up for that. Then there is something else that is important, which has also been the subject of the debate: it is fully possible to locate different research environments — enterprises, secondary schools — alongside each other without achieving any particular interaction. It is incredibly important to be able to work all the way under the heading – the founder – that is behind establishing this: be in dialogue with each other, break one another, get the most out of the cooperation that is possible there. Some of this was also Elisabeth Aspacer, that we're following up, that we're able to document what this has been particularly successful, and what might not have worked so well. Obviously, the learning value for others will be great because we know something more than that we just hear their own story about what has worked and not worked, although it's also very important. So some kind of follow-up research, or documentation, I think it's interesting to look further on, investigate whether it's actually going on, whether someone's been throwing themselves over it. I think this is a very important example of how we can get a lot more of the resources available in different areas of society. I hope we can do more of that. 2011 isn't going to be the year where there's going to be oil billions over all of the good projects. The more important it becomes to see the skills and quality that lie on different points, and what can be achieved through better cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e520	Case No. So 9 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e526	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e697	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-12.ana.ud1231e729	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
