ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e26	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e29	On behalf of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative on measures to prevent young people from developing drug addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e34	The representative, Åse Michaelsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e37	I would like to make a proposal by Mr. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Mr. Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself on the immediate movement of foreign criminals from Halden prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e64	The Stortinget received a Friday announcement from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - No one's getting up. We'll start with the first main questions from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e73	My question goes to Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. Over the years, newspapers and the media have carried out so-called popular formations of the country's worst roads, both on highway networks and on highway networks, and the examples have been extreme and cruel. So the government has now transferred over 60 pst. of the old national road network of the counties. That means that very many of those on the list of horrors, or the worst list, in the case of highways, have now become middle-class highways. That's the consequence. So it hasn't become a single new meter of asphalt on the bad roads, but they've been transferred to another level of government, so they've become better than they were before. Since the red-green takeover in 2005, the maintenance drivage on the national roads has increased. It was in 2005 at 16.7 billion. kr. In 2006, it increased to 17.2 billion. $500 million. kr more than in 2005. From 2006 to 2007, the follow-up increased by a further 700 million. kr, and from 2007 to 2008 increased the maintenance allowance by a further 1 billion. kr. This means that in 2009 the maintenance allowance had risen to NOK 19.2 billion. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have been in government for the entire period and have even had a majority to do something with the bad Norwegian roads if they really wanted to. We have Europe's slowest car traffic between major cities, and it is a misguided policy on the part of the government. The last country that passed us was actually Albania. Yes, it is difficult to be a Norwegian transport politician when meeting colleagues from other countries. Nevertheless, the government in the revised budget has set at 70 million. kr for asphalting and corresponds to less than 100 km of new asphalt on a public road network of 93 to 244 km. 1 per million of the road network will pave the way for you. How many years does the Minister for Transport and the Government plan to spend on letting Norwegian taxpayers get modern and safe roads where life and health are not at stake?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e86	The government has systematically worked from day one to strengthen both the maintenance of a name that had been neglected for many years and the provision of new and improved routes. We overfilled the previous national transport plan, wrote history because it was done. We have set an ambitious national transport plan for the next ten years. We're five months, fast, inside this work now. We already see the result. So we're going to spend 100 billion. kr more on the road, track, ports and fairways than the previous government, the government supported by the Progress Party. And then there's no doubt that there's still a lot of mess in the road sector, and there's a lot of messed up about maintenance. We've actually increased the maintenance from 6 billion. NOK 9 billion. kr despite this gruesome list from the representative Hoksrud. This means that at least there are some ways that have been better. I thought – even though we should not be reminded of the past so much longer – that at least this is a much better starting point than the previous government, which actually reduced maintenance by over 400 million. kr. So it's not like it's 100 km of asphalt that's going to lie down this year. It is from before money to approx. 900 km, and that means a total of 1000 km with new asphalt and a lot of other good maintenance. I'm still finding something to look forward to in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e95	I record that the systematic work of the government has been increasing the lag on the old highway network from 16.7 billion. DKK to 19.2 billion kr. I don't think it's that much to brag about. Now the government has pushed 17 000 km of poorly maintained highway to the counties, and the counties have despaired of the so-called gift from the state. No later than 13 April this year, the NRK had a case that the holes in the roads are deeper than the height of a half-litre shower bottle. This meant that the bus driver Nils Gunnar Johansen had to set up the school bus because the county road in the Furudalen in Balsfjord in Troms was not executable. According to the Official Journal of Drammen on 26 March, maintenance for 2.5 billion remains. kr on worn-out and poor country roads only in Buskerud. What kind of feedback has the government council received from state politicians of the government parties? Have they accepted poorly maintained highways with open arms, or have they, like local progress party politicians, expressed great scepticism and concern about the bad gift they have received from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e104	The main trend in the response from the county authorities is that they were happy to be held accountable for several ways, because it means a different proximity between the local authorities and the county councils and less distance when it comes to the decisions to be taken. Then the county councils have spent so much more on the road than many could expect. They received funds that followed the roads they took. So they got 1 billion. Extra kroner. Then we increased the free income, and then we also gave the possibility to interest compensation for 2 billion. kr this year. The census so far shows that the county councils spend about 500 million. kr more on the road than they did last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e111	There will be four follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e114	Norway has poor roads that are expensive to use. It is a competitive disadvantage and a disadvantage for all citizens of the country who need transport. In Swedish roads, half the time is spent. It's about as far between Bergen and Oslo as between Gothenburg and Stockholm. Nevertheless, driving time is twice as long. It can't be because of geography. Switzerland, Austria, Italy, France and Spain have shown that the geographical explanation is not valid. In Norway, road construction is not considered to be socially viable. In Norway, road construction is considered expenditure. What is the Minister of Transport's recipe for speeding up road construction in Norway and reducing transport time on Norwegian roads? When can the Minister for Transport promise half a driving time between Bergen and Oslo? When can the Minister of Transport promise the same transport time on the road in Norway as it is in Sweden today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e125	It is enough that there are countries that we can compare with, which have been more concerned with securing at least tribal roads as the shortest route between the largest cities. At the same time, the country now has a government that prioritises roads. I believe that has also been registered by Sortevik. My recipe is to follow up the ambitious national transport plan that has been created, and not just to let it be planned, but to follow that plan up year by year. That means a total of 322 billion. kr on the road and track. We already see differences. We have now seen differences year by year and improvements on the road network. We have a lot to take back, and we have full pressure on improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e132	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e136	I believe that after five years this government must grow up and take responsibility for its own policy and look forward to it. Over many years, the Council of State says, neglected. The point here is that road quality is getting worse. In its programme of action for the next four years, the state Road Administration notes that road quality will deteriorate, with the consequences of this: increasing accidents and more tragic road fates. A number of professional organisations with the Road Traffic Information Council have promoted what they have called the People's Road Requirements. Here they will, among other things, have binding objectives for what is good road, in line with the minimum requirements we have for vehicles and drivers. They will also have sanctioning powers and supervisory bodies. Will the Council of State listen to these organizations, working for fewer deaths on our roads, and meet their wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e143	We listen to different organizations. We have a regular meeting. We have transport and logistics forums and other possibilities for people and organizations to make their contributions. So I think here we have to have a combination of it to listen and to act. Now we can use time to establish supervision. Now we can take time to discuss what requirements we need to address. There are already good guidelines from, for example: The state's road system to maintain that the most important thing now is to build the roads that are planned and to carry out the maintenance to be done. Then there's one more thing that's very important. It's doing the maintenance in a way that makes us get the most out of the money. We have various reports that tell us about it. We are now busy with improvements and looking closer to how we can get more maintenance for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e150	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e153	Unfortunately, we have to be some people in that the aftermath is greater than ever, the same is true of the past on our roads. But it is also true that the Storting has allowed more money to go than ever before. But one of the challenges is that the money has not been used up in 2009. We have 669 million. kr again for national road investment. We have 130 million. NOK we could have spent on racial protection, which has not been used. $800 million. We have had to go in 2009. They haven't been used. I think a lot of people can understand that they don't get money because there's no total money. But when they don't get any money when it says 800 million. kr again on the book after 2009, I have to ask the Minister: Is this a good enough organization? Does the government have a good enough executive capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e160	This large number, which was not paid around the turn of the year, mainly tells of the large increase in funds between 2008 and 2009, not least the package of measures, which was a gift to the country over, and which meant both much asphalt and much more maintenance, but where there were unpaid bills around the turn of the year. I didn't think it was good to have 800 million. So let's add another cent. But I must also say that this was the situation at the time, with so much money going on in 2009, I have a certain understanding that the state's roadway here did what they could to use this money effectively. I can make sure that now they're gone. We keep the pressure that the money that's been given for 2010 will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e165	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e168	I have taken care of the road and we from January this year, where road safety was the topic. The question to a number of resource people was whether it was possible to achieve the objectives of reducing traffic damage and killing by a third by 2020. I'll quote the leader of Safe Traffic: ‘It could be possible if the political will were present. It's not like that today. We need safer roads, the volume of control needs to be increased and the focus on awareness-raising needs to be strengthened. In the State budget of the year, there is a gap between the long-term objective of the government and the resources allocated to it.» What concrete action does the Council of State intend to take to achieve the objectives of the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e178	Traffic security has priority number one from this government. We are now busy following up an action plan that has been prepared in cooperation between the State Road Administration, the Ministry of Education, the Directorate of Health and Safety, i.e. several agencies, with a total of 152 actions. The action plan applies to road, running gear and driver. What is stimulating is that half of the most serious accidents – half of the number of fatalities – could be avoided if people used seat belts, ran in your condition and kept speed limits. So we always have to focus on both. We have to do what we can on the part of the government when it comes to driving, road and driving. Then we must also play on the responsibility of the individual driver.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e183	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e186	I have a question for the rescuer of the agricultural agreement – the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In fact, the nation confirmed on 18 May this year that it was Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre who finally got the agricultural agreement into port. It happened because his colleague in the government, Breck, did not have enough money, and thus could not meet the farmers' total demands. The agricultural agreement has three main pillars. From now on, 2010, state subsidies on the one hand, increased prices for consumers on the other, and increased customs duties, as the last. Now that's the last point, increased customs, which is the principle I want to ask the Foreign Minister questions about. We see that it is in contradiction to developments in the rest of Europe that we now agree to increase Norwegian customs and import protection. It is contrary to the principles underlying free trade, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs also wants, and which he has said from the Chair of the United Kingdom several times that we want to contribute to. Norway has an open economy, and we are totally dependent on free trade. It's about Norwegian jobs, and it's about the opportunity we have to have profitable and good jobs in Norway. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been clear that he was advised not to include increased customs walls and import protection into the agreement. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, what was the reason for the person whom the Minister for Foreign Affairs said no? Why, then, did the Foreign Minister leave that Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e199	I would like to thank the Right-wing Representative for joining the front page of the nation. It feels warm. There is a complex history behind the decision that was included in the solution to the agricultural situation. I would like to comment on what was my advice and my assessment. What came out of different advice to me, I think I'll leave, because there's always more, from more perspectives. My starting point is that Norway has a choice between a centimetre and a centimetre. The situation is therefore that of Norwegian agriculture — and I think it is important to remember that, because it is true that Norway is a member of free trade and an open economy — that Norway benefits from lower rates of customs duty. However, Norway is primarily a member of a regulated international trading system. It is that we have followed the rules on point and point, including in the field of agriculture, and we will do so as the outcome of a WTO agreement, on the adoption of new legislation on agriculture. Nor is it the case that Norway is unable to use this means of using a dollar and a percentage of customs duties within the WTO or the EU obligations for the purpose that we believe serves us the best. The situation of milk farmers in particular has been such that the agricultural organisations, the Ministry of Agriculture and others have felt that changing the weighting from krona to percentage duty has been the right approach. I have been made aware that there are measures that we can take under the WTO Agreement that we can do under the EEA Agreement. That's why I've joined it. The fact that other countries are moving in different directions in those areas where they have export interests, we will see a complex picture in many areas of the economy. But overall, I thought that this was a solution that defended the interests of Norway in this area, and that I am willing to stand by, if anyone would have different opinions about it, also internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e217	I would recommend the Foreign Minister to press the victories coming on the way to his chest – and the look-up in the nation is definitely one of them when you manage to save an agricultural agreement. The problem is that the principles go on the boat. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also clear in his reply now, it is not agreed that it is the principles that should govern, it is the interests of Norway alone, almost on a case-by-case basis. It also undermines the work done in the near future by a new free trade agreement. But the Minister of Foreign Affairs also says in the United Nations on 18 May that this ‘is not a dangerous way for the future’. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, if it's not a dangerous way for the future to be involved in increasing Norwegian import protection, why was it a dangerous way to do that in this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e224	I am not ashamed to take Norwegian interests into account when we do so within the regulatory framework we have agreed to. If there is a general principle that says that Norway is for the least possible protection of all sectors, therefore we are building up what is absolutely necessary to maintain agriculture throughout the country, I choose to follow the care of Norwegian interests. What I have said in the Commentary to the Nations is that it is not a lasting solution to Norway's challenges in many areas to increase customs duties. The whole picture of the Norwegian economy is that we're reducing customs duties. And if there is a WTO agreement – I have also pointed out this – there are arrangements for large cuts in customs and large cuts in internal support. But we have to act on the instruments we have today, and this is an instrument that is fully legal, according to the legislation and the agreements that Norway has concluded. And every country that I meet acts like this. Countries strongly involved in free trade also use their possibilities for protection in the areas covered by the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e231	There will be three follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e234	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast. The Minister of Fisheries is responsible for one of the country’s most important industries — and a large export industry. Norway therefore has a high interest in free trade in fish. Norwegian fisheries exports are the most vulnerable industry in terms of international responses to increased Norwegian customs duties. We therefore assume that the Minister for Fisheries has been involved in this matter. Can the Minister for Fisheries guarantee to Stortinget that this will not have a negative impact on Norwegian fishing exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e241	The President will note that the question is moving significantly away from the main question, but the Council of State Berg-Hansen has to decide for herself whether to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e244	Yes, the fisheries and aquaculture industry is very concerned with free trade in fish. So, both in international negotiations and in national policy making, there are no links between what is happening in one area and what is happening in another. We have a trade minister who travels around the world and negotiates free trade agreements where possible. I work closely with him in that area. Of course, what is happening in the formulation of international policies in the field of agriculture has no connection with what is happening in the area where we are dealing with the trade of fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e249	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e252	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right to be able to do what you have done, but there are probably few foreign ministers who have been so clear and fundamental about these issues as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom. A very short time ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the government will ‘continue to work in all relevant forums to counter increased protectionism’. Then you clearly think of all the forums outside the government's own circles. For example, where you can do something about protectionism, you can do something about protectionism. agricultural production, a traditional, old-fashioned solution is chosen. Does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that there is a great difference between the modest Minister for Foreign Affairs in the UK and what will be the practical results of this agricultural settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e261	I do not agree with that, but I agree that there is a great difference between Norwegian agriculture and all other parts of Norwegian economy. It is a characteristic of Norway — the reality of farming in Norway. Although it went the wrong way because of what I wanted, there was a contributing reason why the Norwegian people voted no to EU membership. EU agricultural policy was seen as incompatible with the maintenance of agriculture throughout the country. That is why we are not part of the common agricultural policy in the EU, but we are part of the WTO. There is now a debate on a framework that could affect agriculture. I am a member of the regulatory trading system. It allows you to choose between a percentage and a dollar. It's the country's ability to make that choice. We have used the legislation within the framework – no one can argue against it. This is what all other countries do to ensure national interests. Norwegian interests and objectives are to maintain agriculture throughout the country. This tool is then used for an industry that has been heavily exposed, and we have used instruments that Norway is fully entitled to and to which we stand clearly upright.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e266	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e269	I believe that I and the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that reaching a WTO agreement is important, both for a moral perspective internationally and for growth in Norway and also in many other countries. We see that not only do we increase the customs barriers, as we do in this agricultural settlement, but we also maintain a very large amount of export support. So we're increasing the customs barriers in Norwegian milk, and we're spending 140 million dollars. kr for export aid to Norwegian milk abroad. The left has proposed to cut it in every budget. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that this is a bit of a double moral, that we are both protecting our own and paying for export aid, which is, of course, what the WTO is trying to combat in order to achieve a world trade that both works and can lead to growth for Norwegian business, for Norwegian farmers, and for the international balance and growth of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e275	I believe that the export aid should be phased out. It is also within the WTO agreement that can come. If it had arrived in 2005, the export aid had been phased out by 2013. Norway has made it quite clear that we are going to wind it up in line with WTO rules, but it must be done as part of an agreement. And Norway is a tiny player in this giant class of countries that subsidizes its exports. The major problem in the markets is what is happening in the EU and the United States. As far as I see, 10 pst goes. Norwegian milk production for the production of exported cheese. It shall receive support for such exports. If it's changed, it's about some thousand jobs, which I think the producer of cheese will then move out. Until there is a WTO agreement, the level is maintained. As far as the moral perspective is concerned, therefore, we have solidarity with the fact that we have imposed that rate of duty on milk – in this case it must conflict with Swedish dairy farmers, who have the greatest interests in Norway. I think we can stand upright because we have the right to implement this, in line with the measures to which the agreements give us full authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e282	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e285	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. I expect that this may be the last time the Minister of Transport comes in the spontaneous question hour before summer. The Christian People's Party took up a case before the summer last year, and it applies to the offer criteria for the fast route. Unfortunately, it is a significant insecurity attached to the fast route. We may risk a sharp decrease in supply, or in the worst case, it disappears. What Lonely Planet describes as “the world’s most beautiful boat trip” is a community institution in Norway. There was a joint transport and communication committee that was in Finnmark and Troms in the previous week. This was the thing we got most feedback on. It means a lot to the coastal population, it means a lot to the ports that the fast route enters, to tourism – it says itself – for freight traffic – yes, it is a community institution. This winter we have experienced that all the flights in Norway have been standing because of the wish situation, we have also experienced that all the trains have been standing, but the fast route, she has gone. This was a matter that the Christian People's Party took up last year. On June 19, at 4 p.m. 12.46 Liv Signe Navarsete said in this room: ‘I’m sorry we couldn’t get the case before Stortinget leaves each other.’ Since that time the minister has left, and there has come a new minister, but very little has happened in this matter. So the government regrets that one of them didn't come forward a year ago, so we haven't seen anything in Stortinget. So my question is, when does this matter come to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e301	My starting point is that the government has mountained Hurtigruten from bankruptcy. It was the Hurtigruten who had to report to the government that Hurtigruten was unable to comply with the agreement entered into with the State on the purchase of services that would expire in 2012. My next starting point is that the fast route is very important. It means a lot to the continent, there is no doubt about it, and it means a lot to Norway as a travel nation. Therefore, of course, I do my job to get a good offer basis. So that's not a simple thing. It's not that because if it hasn't come a case to Stortinget yet, nothing has happened. On the contrary, we have worked very hard to establish a good basis. So in the meantime, there's an additional agreement between Hurtigruten and the state. So the insecurity that must be, the debt, I understand, the indebtedness of all the future, and beyond 2012. The fast route’s agreement with the State applies to that part of the Hurtigruten’s services which is about to carry passengers and goods on long-distance journeys. That's where the government buys services. In addition, Hurtigruten operates a large commercial part, i.e., that which has to do with travel or otherwise. When we get a good supply basis, we're dependent on the agreements that we're part of. Difor has this take a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e310	I'm not impressed with this answer. So one year ago, in this Chamber, a minister lamented that this matter had not come to the Stortinget. And now the minister says this is because it's going to be so thorough work. What's happening now is that the Hurtigruten is building a plane B, where one of them is sending ships in international waters. So in a few years' time, the coast can experience that one does not have the fast-haul traffic that is so important for the whole coast. I mean, it means that we have a fast route that goes every day, that goes into the ports that we have today, is helping to secure a basis for the coast. And I don't understand that it's going to take so long. So when the then Minister lamented one year ago that the matter had not arrived before the summer of 2009, I thought I had to look at how a worker works in the government when this takes so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e317	Now I'm glad I have one more minute to answer Hareide, so I can say an important sentence, which I didn't have in my previous answer. It's that I didn't intend to go beyond winter and spring before a new period comes out, which will have to be due from 1 January 2013 and which may be due in the past. I'm not going to take a break until the offer papers for the hotspot are out. This probably also means that options that Hurtigruten had to work with will give them an idea of what they're doing, but it's actually going to be an offer here that makes it possible for more people to offer. It requires the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e322	There will be three follow-up questions – first Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e325	It is good that the matter is being worked on, even if we think it is going incredibly slowly. The problem, as mentioned earlier, is that we have heard the same thing in the Chamber about a year ago by the Minister of Transport at that time. The fast route has taken hold of the situation. After the conversion, the arrow points upwards. But there is no doubt that the state purchase is absolutely necessary for the concept – as we know it today, and as it has survived and lived for over 100 years, a long history – to continue. In a letter to the Christian People’s Party dated 23 November last year, the Council of State stated that ‘the government will decide on future sailing patterns when you know the costs of the different options better’. Now it might be time to conclude. My question is therefore: can the Council guarantee that a new tender will mean that daily sailing takes place throughout the year, and that the same ports as today are visited by the fast route?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e334	Let me, for the sake of order, correct my own and others' language here in proportion to what we're talking about. What is the state's part, where we buy services when it concerns passengers and goods, is the coastal route, that is, a coastal route that goes from Bergen to Kirkenes. So the Hurtigruten ASA is a company that by date performs this service because one has an agreement with the state, so that side is clear. What I can stress once again is that it has been absolutely necessary to take time to get a good supply base, not least for the purpose of the EEA Agreement. This is an agreement that is important, an offer that is important, but that is also cost-required. So what I can say is that the documents have to go out before the summer break.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e341	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e344	I guess it's still the Stortinget that grants money, not the government. I heard what the council said instead. It's good now that it won't go winter and spring, I'm very happy about that. Quick route means an incredible amount, it means a lot to both parts of the country, it means a lot to Norway, and it means not least enormously in tourism. The problem is the uncertainty of the future, it's the one you're experiencing very strongly in the Hurtigruten, because you don't get an answer. That's how the uncertainty just keeps going. The Council of State has now said that she will not take leave until the tender has been completed. I'm glad, and then I expect it to move forward, and you get it in place pretty fast. But I want to face a challenge because the fast route also has a number of opportunities in terms of tasks that are important to society, for example. in relation to rescue and oil protection, and it has the possibility of carrying such equipment on ships. I want to challenge the Council of State as to whether she will ensure that this can also be a part of the offer – precisely this that you can carry oil protection equipment on the boats, which means that if a disaster occurs, you can act quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e354	If I have expressed myself as allowing the government money on my own, I must be allowed to correct it. I am fully aware that the government is proposing and Stortinget's rights. What I mean myself that I said in relation to costs was that this is a cost-requiring offer; it will in any case be a cost-requiring agreement, when so far lir. Then I can stress that the government is deeply aware and think itself that the fast route is very important. Both the coast route and the fast route are important for passengers, the one part is important for Norwegian travel, and we have the ambition to take care of this important offer still. So Hoksrud raises a demanding question, when he now asks if I can take other things into this supply. Then I'm afraid that summer will go, so I have to reject it here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e363	Ingerd Schou - until last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e366	Quick route is the workhorse of the coast. The Committee was travelling, as we know, in North Norway last week. In coastal municipalities by coastal municipality, we met representatives who were happy about the fast route, glad that it was going. What we also met were coastal municipalities who experienced that the fast route went, but did not stop. It is contained in the tender documents today that there is a certain percentage where you can actually pass by. But when you get to a small place on the Finnmark coast there is 17 May with the school music, you have passengers on and off, and you also have to play for the tourists, and the fast route just goes by – then there is only one of many examples of irritating feedback that the committee received. The question to the Council of State will then be whether the Council of State is going to be inspired by the trick and real-time information that exists, about when the trick comes, and when the trick goes. As it is on the coast today, you have to call the dispatcher and tell him we're passing by, and the agent can be for dinner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e373	I think it is good to hear that the Transport Committee has been travelling on the fast-track and is looking into the important tasks it is carrying out. I've had it myself several times, and I know what it means. So -- yeah, it might be something to learn from the trick. I would say that the fast route, as I have experienced it, also carries out a community mission beyond what is contained in the agreements and does a lot for Norwegian travel, precisely because they put in a lot of unexpected along the way and give passengers extra experiences. Compared to going past where they are supposed to add to the box and the contracts that are valid, the agreements are due. I've heard of one of these conditions, I immediately picked it up, because it shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e380	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e383	I will have to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs a question. In connection with the recent visit of Vega to Northern Ireland by the Council of State, it was possible to read on Monday on the website of www.kyst.no that, in the context of the need to create more jobs in the community related to the farming industry, the Council of State has issued the following statement to the NRK: ‘Therefore, farmers now need to create more jobs where they live, and they should do so by further processing the fish, she says to the NRK. Breeders are using our common land, and farmers must therefore take up the call to leave more in the communities.’ Many of the problems related to the processing of fish, and in particular salmon, are linked to customs barriers resulting from the higher the level of processing, the greater the customs protection we encounter in the international market, cf. a certain agricultural agreement which has been commented on here earlier today on whether or not to increase the customs barriers. My questions to the Council of State are as follows: How has the Council of State planned to follow up on this further? Does the Council intend to oblige farmers to further process the salmon, or does the Council intend to impose additional taxes or charges relating to the use of sea area? How has the Council of State planned to do this through its instrument? Or is it the intention of the Council of State to leave this to the industry itself, which must be the right one to assess whether a market will accept an increased processing of the fish or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e397	As the representative Nesvik has registered, I travel a lot, and I was at Vega. And this is actually one of the areas I discuss a lot both with local politicians and not least with the industry itself. Just to answer the last one first, yes, the industry itself has to do this. I think it's terribly tricked by the industry to seize the opportunities that lie here. I am also very aware of the customs duties on the various processed products. And it's like on the simplest variants, like fillets and pieces, it's so low customs that that's not the challenge. Of course, if you want to start smoking the fish and make ready meals, the situation is different. There we have a Norwegian market that I experience as almost starving on good products, also from the aquaculture industry, but gathered from the Norwegian seafood industry. I also believe there is a great potential for increased processing, not least in the aquaculture industry. We have amazing examples of it already, but it can do a lot more. So yes, the industry itself has to do the job. I meet a lot of people who say that this is wise for business reasons, and that actually makes money on it. And then, of course, I also meet a lot of people who say that it's hard to process, if you don't have a raw material that's large enough, especially in relation to the fresh fish markets out in Europe that demand to have deliveries every single day. With regard to the issue of taxes and land taxes, I am concerned that we should have a marine industry that can compete internationally, and of course we have to see it in a context. When I have mentioned this, it is based on the fact that there are some – not least – coastal rapporteurs who are not very impressed by the nature of the marine industry left in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e406	I am very pleased that the Council of State has now, at least, put the ball to death that you should oblige the industry to do this. This is going to be up to business itself, and it's at least a good start. It is not possible to put under the chair that there was some scepticism within the industry after the opinion of the Council of State. Among other things, pointed out that what you could do if you meant something about giving back something to the community could be that the sum you had to pay for new farming concessions last year was due to the municipalities as compensation. And then there's other ways to do it. But at least it is reassuring that the Council of State now says not to impose this on the industry, but to encourage it, if necessary. Well, that's a good start. My follow-up questions to the Council of State are: Can the Council of State be a little clearer in terms of taxation of sea area, because where do I feel that the Council of State says she will come back to it later? Can the Council of State also order that the Government intends to introduce such a measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e415	Once again, I want to confirm what the representative now states, that the industry must of course do the job itself. But, as I say, I think the industry has a lot to pick up on, and I haven't met a lot of scepticism in the industry. I was last at the FHL's annual meeting and brought this up in a bigger context. I work a lot to put fisheries and aquaculture policy into a wider context than, as today, that fisheries policy is a sport for particularly interested people. I think this is a way to go to succeed with it. Carrot rather than whip is my motto for this work, and e.g. when former fisheries minister Helga Pedersen announced new concessions, processing was one of the points. I am not working with plans to increase the overall taxation of the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e422	There will be three follow-up questions – first Torgeir Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e425	Agricultural production this year increased the rate of milk duty, leading to strong reactions across the EU. We have received reactions from more people in the European Union who say that this will have consequences, including: for the Norwegian fishing industry. Norway exports fish for a staggering 45 billion. kr. In my view, the government has weakened Norway's credibility and sympathy when we protest against other countries' attempts to protect ourselves against the export of Norwegian fish, and then we do the same ourselves. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Why does the Council of State put the largest and most important industry after oil to stake in order to draw the centre party? And why did the Council of State choose milk over fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e433	Here it's about having two thoughts in your head at the same time. As I said in my short answer in a previous round related to the very same topic, there are two different areas we're talking about. There's no connection between what's happening in one area and another area. Why the rate of duty on milk was raised – I should not enter the agricultural agreement – it is not my responsibility. My responsibility is within fish and its export. And as I said, I work closely with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who is sometimes actually criticized for travelling around the world and working for Norwegian exports. I appreciate it incessantly and work closely with him, as I said. We have seen in previous cases that we have an international regulation that protects the export of Norwegian fish has been beneficial to us, and I will continue to work with the Minister of Food and Trade linked to selling even more fish outside the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e438	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e441	As the representative of Nesvik pointed out in his question, the Minister for Fisheries has just been on Vega. The Council of State required Norwegian breeders to create more jobs. In its reply, the Council of State claimed that there is a high potential to increase production in processing and thus the number of jobs, but we know that the biggest barrier to land-based fish farming is precisely the customs barriers, especially on processed fish. Does the Council of State see that by building up the customs barriers to protect Norwegian agriculture at the same time contribute to undermining the possibilities of the farming industry to meet the demands of the Council of State for more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e446	In fact, I disagree with the representative Røbekk Nørve that the customs barriers are the biggest barrier. In fact, I think there are other things that are a bigger barrier to increasing the processing of fish – and now we are talking first and foremost about salmon – in Norway. We have glittering examples that show that a simple form of processing creates many jobs. We see that in the Hitra/Frøya area, large processing capacity is now being built up. They do, of course, because it's business-economically profitable. I am afraid that we are actually struggling with old attitudes across the country based on the fact that we are suppliers of raw materials rather than producers of seafood. I want to do something about that – simply because I think it is possible. And I know that's possible. I know that many jobs are created based on Norwegian salmon production today. I want to see more of that. Because, as I say, the aquaculture industry uses common land, and then I believe that it is reasonable to demand results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e453	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e456	There have been several reports in the media on the adverse effects of toxic substances used in the treatment of salmontus. The Christian People's Party has asked the Council of State questions about the issue in the past. The Minister of Fisheries has recently opened up new drugs to detach salmon, among others. flubenzurons, in 500 rearing plants. Researchers at the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea have assessed the potential health and environmental effects of the use of these substances and have concluded that they are toxic to, inter alia, crustaceans, even at low concentrations. Where do the alternative measures come from? The breeding industry has carried out a number of successful research projects on the use of lip fish, which eat lusa, among others. in Agder. Breeding is another important means of removing the livelihood of lice and other parasites. Will the Council of State intensify the fight against salmonids by implementing a minimum set-aside target for farms and increasing the use of lip fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e465	That question is little about processing, but I like to answer it very much, because it is one of the degrees relevant question. The first thing I want to clarify is an obvious misunderstanding. It is not the Minister of Fisheries who opens up new medicinal products in the aquaculture industry, it is the Agency that does, and it is under the Minister of Health and Care. In spite of this, this is a topic that I have been committed to, which is precisely related to the substances that were mentioned here. I invited the departments concerned to a meeting with a background in not the substance itself, but with the extent of the use of the substance mentioned here. We put down a fast-working group to look at it. But the important thing is to have the long perspective here as well. Lepfish, fallowing – the fight against salmonnus is still high on my agenda. I know that there are now interesting attempts to raise lip fish, and I look forward to the results. Bracking is also a theme on which we spend time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e474	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e477	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. U-864, the German submarine outside of Fedje, is located like a ticking environmental bomb on the seabed. 67 tonnes of mercury is a gigantic source of pollution which, with its spread to the ocean cycle, can have serious consequences, not only locally but also for the credibility of the environmental nation of Norway. That is why the Stortinget and the government half a year ago, after thorough assessments, went in order to eliminate the wreck and the load and thus eliminate the risk of spreading. Or as Minister for Fisheries and Coast Helga Pedersen said: ‘We have placed a decisive emphasis on the uncertainty of the local population by having a mercury deposit in the rocks.’ It was also said that the method chosen contained a number of risk mitigation measures in relation to previous cancellation offers, and Helga Pedersen stated in this context: ‘The weapon shall be raised by a large container below which dissolved mercury can be captured and shall be carried to land by special vessels.’ Well said. So, as late as May 19th this year, a week ago, the Prime Minister says, according to the NRK: ‘It is the aim of everyone to have the submarine unloaded.’ But his government, with the Minister of Fisheries and Coast, has gone in to reset up the upliftment, retreat to take off, by proposing once again to explore other alternatives, including the covering of the wreck. Does the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs understand the rapporteurs and the peoples of the West who now say that the ‘government keeps the west coast for fools’ and describe it as a political game? Now the formal uncertainties surrounding the contract conditions have been cleared up. Why, then, does the government and the Labour Party want to risk the environmental disaster of the times along the Norwegian coast? Shouldn't the locals be safe anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e501	Fortunately, we have plenty of time to discuss the U-864 in the near future, all the time there is a matter for consideration here in the Stortinget linked to it. On the question of whether I understand that the rapporteur and the people are concerned about the matter, the answer is yes. I live on the coast myself, I can easily get into that situation. I don't have a submarine – and at least not mercury – lying outside the cast where I live, but I can easily get into it. The government has always said that the goal is to lift the submarine. We haven't changed that decision, it's firm. When the government received the KS2 report, which was extremely critical of the current cancellation project – the present cancellation project, I stress it – I and the rest of the government felt that the only responsibility would be to stop and ask ourselves: What are we doing now? Therefore, we recommend to Stortinget that we go to work more thoroughly, get proven alternative ways to raise it, combine raising/coverage. Once a cover-up option has also been included, it is in respect of the complexity of the matter, simply so that if it should prove that it would be completely impossible to bring up all the mercury, we must also have a realistic, sound alternative, which is safe and environmentally sound enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e510	I agree with the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on one point that the report was critical of the government's own sub-organisation, namely the Coastal Agency's, handling the matter. It was critical. But many of the conditions that were pointed to there have now been corrected. And the Council of State itself told me at the hearing that where the Coastal Works have lacked competence, this has been collected, and where the Coastal Works have their own competence, this will be used. So it should now be in place. And when the company has also made many clarifications, following calls, in the agreement, and has made a price guarantee, there is reason to ask the Council of State again: Has the government really assessed the impact on Norwegian fishing interests if emissions increase and the food chain and the environment are affected at a completely different pace from today, due to the steady un-swings of the government in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e518	I stress again that it was the whole of the solution and cancellation option that was the basis for the government's recommendation not to go further with this. Then I have also recorded that there have been many recordings, both to alternative ways of doing it and not least to the project at hand. It's come a little bit apart and divided, a little bit like this and a little bit like that. I think it's quite difficult to work in such a way. We treated the project as it existed. In subsequent rounds, it will be possible to make modifications, changes, there is nothing in the way that there may also be an alternative, but to deal with this in a serious, thorough and formal way, the government has chosen to do so. I stress that it was the whole of the present project that led the government to recommend changing and extending it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e529	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e532	I have a follow-up question for the Foreign Minister. The government has been concerned that other countries should clean up environmental threats that could threaten neighbouring countries, such as – crossroads – Murmansk, Sellafield, rainforest. The submarine is located in Norway’s suburbs, with possible consequences for a number of neighbouring countries. It's all about clean seas. What assessments does the Minister for Foreign Affairs make in view of Norway's reputation as a fishing nation in relation to our second most important export industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e539	I have, frankly, nothing to add, based on the thorough answer the Minister for Fisheries has given. This is a matter that the government takes seriously. I think that the modern reputation of the country is made up of a lot of relationships. And when it comes to the environment, coastal management and management of marine resources, I think that, in sum, is a good story about Norway's reputation internationally. We have products that are sold all over the world, from a clean sea. This means that we have a great opportunity, but of course we are also vulnerable in terms of trust in these products, if questions should be asked, among other things. health and safety. But it takes the government seriously, and it's the Stortinges orientated about it. I have nothing to add besides what the Minister for Fisheries has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e546	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e549	I would like to ask the supplementary question to the Council of State, to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast. The entrance is that if this submarine had been at Langesund, the cancellation operation would probably have been going on a long time ago. The councils are flying under a false flag. I Prop. 81 S for 2009-2010, which we are about to deal with on Monday, says: ‘By also including coverage and an alternative where raising and covering are combined, the likelihood of remaining together with satisfactory alternatives for the management of mercury pollution’ – and which – ‘is acceptable for management, risk and costs’. This bears the command that the government has made up its mind. This offers that the government chooses a completely different solution from the one presented by the previous Minister of Coast and Fisheries in January 2009, when it was stressed that the decision to lift was made because a safe solution had been found. Is it that you now choose cover instead of raising?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e561	If being concerned about the environment and the security of the people of the West is flying a false flag, I live very well with it. The only thing I and the rest of the government are concerned about is, how can we do this as best we can for safety? It concerns the safety of those who are required to do the mission, the safety of the population and not least the environment. That's all I'm concerned about. In order for me to meet the strong need and the strong demand for that, we have to do this thoroughly and implement it in a proper and proper way. When we get a KS2 report that to those degrees is strongly critical of the current option, I would actually say that it would be irresponsible to go on as if nothing has happened. That is why the government is now going to work thoroughly and, as I said earlier, in respect of the fact that this is a demanding project, we must be sure that we have a realistic alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e570	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e573	I look forward to the debate next week on this important matter, but I think it is very important for us to agree with the Prime Minister before this debate becomes clear on the subject matter of the Berg-Hansen Council. So the Prime Minister said on TV 2 on 19 May that he was in agreement with the locals that the boat should be raised. He used the words to be raised, and he added: as soon as it's professionally defended. And then my question is, because this is an important premise for our debate: is it that the Council of State also agrees that the submarine should be raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e580	The Council of Trade Unions agrees with the Prime Minister. Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e585	With that, the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e592	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered before question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative of Øyvind Håbreek to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, who has been away. Question 4, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the oil and energy minister, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Träldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e609	Question 1 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e615	Then I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘As a result of major changes in the school structure in many municipalities, often adopted in the budget procedure in December, the launch of privately run schools is a major initiative. The length of the ministry’s length of time and, hence, the early application deadlines make it impossible to approve a new private school for the start of the school in the autumn of the current fiscal year, even if the school is to be based on well-known pedagogy. Will the Council of State reduce the length of the procedure so that students can avoid an unfortunate interim in such cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e629	First, a few comments on what is now happening in school structures in many municipalities. First of all, it's so local that you have a good enough knowledge to make good decisions. And if there's something we don't have to do in Oslo, there's details about how the school structure in the municipalities should be. The balances that have to be made locally are about ensuring that it is a good educational professional environment, and that it is a good environment for the children, you have to look at the length of the journey, and of course what the local environment wants. But there are schools that are too small to keep a good professional level, and that are too small to keep a good social environment for the children, and without the travel route being deterrent to the students. But what's the situation in a lot of places is that there's a lot of commitment for many colleges, and that the option for many parents, and for the local environment, is to try to create a private school. The application period for the establishment of new private schools is set at 1 April of the year before the planned start of the private school law. The Directorate of Education is examining applications for the approval of private schools, and this year many applications have been submitted with this particular issue – 37 applications for the establishment of new schools. For the sake of students, it is important that the directorate in each of these 37 cases is fully involved and that matters are properly dealt with. Before authorisation may be granted, the directorate must obtain an opinion from the host municipality. At the same time, the Directorate must ensure that the applicant complies with the minimum legal requirements. Before the school can start, the school must, among other things, present a realistic budget, entry rules and rules of procedure must be approved, the school must demonstrate that teachers at school have the necessary competence, and the premises must be approved by the county. The operation of a private school to provide training for children and young people is a major and important responsibility that should not be taken lightly. Without proper processing, we will not be able to ensure that the applicant fulfils the conditions that must be in place to obtain permission to assume this responsibility. I understand that a possible middle year, as envisaged in the question, can be difficult for the students and their families. This may not, however, mean that the authorities should take lightly the approval of private schools and should not be properly dealt with in order to ensure that children receive the training they require. I will therefore not change the deadline for applying as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e644	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows to a large extent that we have the same focus on the matter. It's the best of the children, and we're not going to have four on the terms. But what is still a reality is that approx. 360 schools have dropped over the last three years, school structures have changed dramatically, and there are some eighty new schools that have come in the same period. Many of them have similar pedagogy, especially the Montessori pedagogy. In concrete terms, in Trysil, a plan to start a new structure from 2011 was suddenly changed to 2010. The schools that are applying for Montessori school have everything in place, but can't get it started this year. And they have applied for urgent treatment of the application. There are three applications in the county, and these are for the three schools — equal treatment. But nevertheless, it is now said that these students have to go one year in a new school structure, with a long way to go, then to go to new schools that they have said they will go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e651	I haven't seen anything special at the schools in Trysil, but they're three out of 37 applications available, and I'm going to tip off that the other schools will also claim that they're in a similar situation. It is then quite demanding to be able to ensure the quality of the offer that the children will have. Children in small private schools shall be entitled to the same good quality offer as children in all other schools. In very special cases, there are some possibilities for exceptions to this deadline — but there should be very special reasons. From what I know, a little bit through others, about these issues, I can't see that there are very different issues in Trysil compared to other places where you also have a desire to set up private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e658	I record that the Council of State concludes that she will not change anything. This results in children in Trysil getting a travel time far beyond what you would consider to be normal travel time for children. They break up from their local environment, and then come back the next year. The process is underway, and the application to establish a school from 2011 has been delivered. This can't be good for the kids or be good for the kids. That's my assumption all the time – and as I see it, it's in place – that the pedagogy is in place and the environment is in place. All these others are in place, it is the State aid that is missing. These schools have also sent an enquiry asking if they can get help to get started in other ways. It is a piece of rights in the Training Act that allows you to have a private school without a grant, but it creates uncertainty for the children. Is that a good way to solve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e667	I believe that the representative Harberg understands that I cannot stand and handle requests for three private schools from Stortinget’s pulpit. We need to have quality assurance, and we need to have a certain level of non-discrimination with other private schools that are also applying. It is not a true picture that there has been a massive closure of small schools in Norway, but of course it is a trend that is related to the pattern of housing: in some places you may have problems in maintaining a school of good quality. Let me just say that in many places in Norway there will be small schools because the country looks like it does, and it's a challenge to make sure that you can work together in a little new ways to have both good professional environments among teachers and better environments among students. Video conferencing and other ways of cooperating are possible methods of use. I have asked the statesmen to conduct a study on the students' route as a result of the changes that have occurred. What we know is that it's 4 pst. of children who have more than two miles of travel — each way. Now it may not say much about travel time either, because there may be quite a lot of different conditions, but it says at least so that the biggest challenge is not about the length of the school road in general, but probably to a very large extent about maintaining a nearby environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e679	Here it's getting complicated! This question, from Øyvind Håbreek to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is the right person. However, the question is answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e684	‘The Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion states to Stavanger Aftenblad on 3 May that there is a critical situation in municipal child protection. How will the Council of State contribute to addressing these challenges and ensure that municipal child protection is provided with resources for the necessary escalation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e691	As the President was in the Chamber, I am now responding on behalf of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion Lysbakken, who is responsible for the Council of State. We have a significant challenge with regard to child protection, because vulnerable children and young people need the best possible help when they need it from child protection. It is the municipalities that have a primary responsibility to follow up the child-restraints. ==References== 80 pst. of all measures in the field of child protection are municipal. Local authorities also have the best conditions to provide help — they can get into the family early, and they can cooperate with other important services such as kindergarten, school and health. Strengthening child protection is a high priority in our government. State child protection has been provided for several years with significant increases in funding. Now it's time to strengthen municipal child protection. Although child protection is a statutory service for municipalities and municipalities are responsible for ensuring that child protection is provided with the necessary framework to provide the best possible help, we see that many municipalities are struggling to do just that. We know that there is a breach of treatment deadlines in child protection, there is a lack of statutory action and care plans, and there are children who are not being supervised. Things are being resolved despite their seriousness. Many children do not get the right help at the right time, and that is an unacceptable situation. Half-yearly reporting from municipalities shows that there are considerable differences between municipalities in the number of notifications, studies and children in the number of interventions per employee in the municipal child protection service. This is serious and may indicate that the quality of the offer of child protection to children and young people depends on where you live. The government's objective is that child-restraint children should have a good and equivalent offer. This requires a high level of professional protection for children, and not least sufficient capacity in the municipal child protection service. Small municipalities are particularly vulnerable. We have therefore shown a very positive attitude towards inter-municipal cooperation. I believe that far more municipalities need to assess intercommunal solutions in this area. This is something KS also agrees with, and we're working together to facilitate. We know that the number of municipal child protection posts has not kept track of the growth in the number of cases. It means less time to work on some complex issues. In the worst case, this could be a threat to the legal certainty of children. The government has addressed this challenge by increasing the free revenues of municipalities for 2010 by 4.2 billion. kr. This provides room for the creation of 400 new posts in municipal child protection. I would like to stress that the municipalities themselves have the responsibility to assess the manning situation and to create more jobs. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will closely monitor the priority of child protection in 2010. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has, among other things: asked the county councillors to provide an assessment of the state of each municipality based on their own reporting and the county council’s supervision of the municipalities – this in order to give an indication of which municipalities are most vulnerable, and to be able to keep up with the development and see if the municipalities are giving priority to the protection of children in the future. In addition to own assessments by county officials, the government is closely monitoring the development of annual works through half-yearly reporting by municipalities. In the autumn of 2010, we will be able to say something more about whether the municipalities have given priority to several municipal child protection posts. If it turns out that the objective of strengthening municipal child protection by 400 years of age will not be achieved in 2010, the government will consider other instruments to ensure that municipal child protection is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e712	The question was originally asked to the municipal minister, and I allow myself to say that when the question is asked to the municipal minister about how she will contribute to solving the challenges of municipal child protection, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is not right. But when he could not meet, I find it interesting to hear from the Minister of Knowledge, and, to the extent that the party leader of the SV, also assesses the situation of child protection, which is now described as unacceptable, serious and critical – also by the Minister of Children in the past. The questions are: why is municipal child protection under-priority in municipalities? Is it because this is a group that doesn't have the strongest support groups in society behind it? Does the Minister of Knowledge agree? Does the Council also agree that it obliges the government and us as politicians to support precisely this group that is dependent on municipal child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e719	Yes, I am. These are some of the most vulnerable inhabitants we have in Norway. These are children who often need to be discovered by adults other than their own parents. These are children who often need action and cooperation between different actors in their lives, whether they are kindergartens or schools, health sisters or PP services. They simply need to involve many in the services for which the municipalities are responsible. I think there are several reasons why it's hard to get a standard of child protection that we're going to be happy with, partly because these are issues that many of us don't necessarily see, or that the voters don't have first place in the pancake when they're looking for which party they trust, and partly there may be complex things, i.e. difficult things to approach. The sum of that makes it particularly demanding to get child protection up on a standard that we'll be satisfied with. That doesn't mean we're not going to do everything we can, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e726	I thank you for your answer. I appreciate that we agree that this particular group requires special attention because they do not have the strong interest groups in their backs as other groups who – in a way – fight about the welfare billions. But that is also the more binding for us. When, in addition, we have a government that describes the situation of municipal child protection as critical, it is serious, and it commits to action. As the Council of State's first response also stated, unacceptable conditions are described as serious. When we have seen that the municipalities have increased funds, and we are still in the situation of child protection, the question is, which was the starting point for my first question: what means is the government willing to use to ensure that the municipalities actually prioritize child protection? Is the government willing to use earmarking of funds to ensure that child protection is stepped up to a decent level?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e735	So, as I mentioned in my first answer, the framework for municipalities for 2010 has been laid down, where 400 new posts have also been taken into account in the field of child protection. So far we can't prove that there have been 400 new posts around the municipality of Norway related to municipal child protection, but we have a better overview of that issue for the autumn. Then I would like to say that we have to consider earring. We have to assess whether the law is good enough. We have to consider whether there are other types of measures we have to take if not what we have already done has given effect that is noticed for the children that it actually applies. So no means can be excluded if we find that it is necessary to achieve the goal of child protection with a quality that makes us reasonably confident that children in a critical situation will receive help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e745	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e748	Then we hope the Minister of Justice answers better than the Minister of Finance has done. The question is: ‘The government has on several occasions pointed out that enterprises with State ownership are to be the leaders of social responsibility and that it is the responsibility of the board to implement policies and systems in order to follow them up. The Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cermaq until 2009 has failed to address this issue on the grounds that the board ‘did not get to know or was briefed on’ fish oil trade with West Africa. How does the Council of State view this as an explanation from a director of a state company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e757	I'll try to answer as best I can, and then we'll see how it works. Initially, I would like to say that it is not my intention to judge the activities of board members out of major and semi-state companies, but it is therefore important, as the question also shows, that the responsibility of the state to bring social responsibility into the governing bodies is to be assumed. I point out that Cermaq ASA is a listed company in which the state owns 43.54 pst. The State in which the shareholder deals with the board and management of Cermaq under the provisions of the General Shares Act on the division of roles between board, management and owners. It follows, inter alia: of which it is the board of directors and the management of the company which is responsible for the business operation of the company, including the powers of the management of the company to carry out the appropriate management of the interests and values of the company. The management of the company has informed that agreements concluded by a subsidiary on supplies of raw materials for production, in this case the EAW’s agreements with Rieber Oils on fish oil for fish feed production, are agreements managed by the administration within its powers. Furthermore, the management of the company informed of the agreement with Rieber for this reason has not been submitted to the board of Cermaq ASA. When Cermaq ASA informed the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade about the matter in March, the Ministry clarified its expectation that Cermaq and its companies would contact and follow advice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the understanding of the recommendation on trade with Western Sahara. Cermaq’s subsidiary, EWOS, decided on 9 April to close the trade in fish oil from Rieber Oils from the disputed region of Morocco and Western Sahara, a decision taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e770	I thank you for your answer. I think the Council of State gives the impression that you're taking this seriously, and I appreciate it. The agreements have now been concluded until 2002, so that a meeting in March is delayed, and a board of directors will be in the forefront. I think Sylvia Brustad, then Minister of Economic Affairs, said this very well in the 2008 State Owners' Report. There she says, ‘It is the governance of companies that is responsible for implementing policies and systems that ensure that the corporate social responsibility is performed in the best possible way.’ The current director, Johnsen, has replied to me that the board did not deal with this, did not get to know or was informed about this. Then we're down to how a board should write guidelines and implement systems. Does it keep your head stuck so far down in the sand that you don't register what's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e784	I fully agree with Mr Brustad, Minister of Industry at that time, with the initiatives taken during her time, but I also agree with what has been done by the Ministry of Economic Affairs at that time. I would particularly like to refer to the news posted on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's website on 5 October 2009 and to the PwC's report, where the opinion of Sylvia Brustad came, but also to what appears in St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009 on the social responsibility of industry in a global economy, and which is precisely the political issue, which I also understand the representative Gundersen is concerned about: what can be done, not only to state owners, but to all types of owners, so as to take on the considerable social responsibility it is to set up the business so that most of us see as a good social responsibility? That is where I believe the policy in the matter lies. I also believe to a great extent that the Governments of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have actually taken action in relation to this, so that more instruments are given to them to do not only the governing bodies, but also the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e789	Again: I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Justice sees the seriousness of this – I really feel that he does – and that he takes some signals back to the Minister of Industry, because more needs to be done here. A company such as Kerr-McGee was excluded by the State pension fund abroad because they had entered into a contract in Western Sahara in 2008. Then it was reversed in 2009. This illustrates the seriousness. Norway’s Bank’s management of the State pension fund abroad is monitored by the Minister of Finance, who was then the Governor of Cermaq. The March meeting was very good to take the initiative, but the department should also look into whether there were guidelines and systems in Cermaq right back to 2002 which made the company aware of the type of problem that was being addressed here. That's the interesting thing. Were the guidelines and systems in place? Will the department go in and check if this was actually in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e798	I will promise that I will take the signals from the representative of Gundersen to the Minister of Industry about this, and I am convinced that he also reads the record from this questioning process, so that he can see what was actually said. I think it is absolutely crucial for these kinds of challenges that we face – and not only in companies where the state is engaged, but also in other purely private companies – that we get systems and opportunities for all levels of organisations and in all types of companies, in subsidiaries and in groups, to be able to exercise effective control, so that social responsibility can be taken seriously. There I have to say that I believe that the general steps taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in recent years are very important steps on the right path to bring activity into the social responsibility that we want them to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e808	‘Right, it is a good idea to ensure railway training at master level in Norway. What will the Council of State do to ensure that management and institutions have sufficient and high competence in rail, signalling and other areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e815	It is the responsibility of the Railway Agency to secure the railway professional competence in Norway. It is necessary to increase the level of promises, go hand in hand with recruitment and training of enough people with the right skills. Developing training provision and enough capacity to implement the increased investment on the railway will take some time. We must therefore be told that the lack of competence will be a problem within some parts of the sector for some time to come. The railway works along two lines now. The one is to cover up the areas where one has a lack of competence today. This applies in the first row of signals. The second is the longer-term work on the provision of education that guarantees railway professional competence in the future. This applies to professional, bachelor and master levels. Of the measures being worked on, I would like, among other things. mentions: The Railway Agency has reduced two working groups with representatives from all over the sector to identify the overall need for competence in the future. The plan is to market the railway industry and work together to develop good training provision for railway competence. In the signalling field, the Railway Agency has set up a training programme to increase the capacity to train signalling engineers in the coming fall. Training takes place in cooperation with the Norwegian Railway School. At the same time, a bachelor's degree in signal science is being set up in collaboration with the Högskulen in Oslo, starting in 2011. The Hochskulen has also expressed an interest in the creation of a bachelor's degree in the field of railway and contact management/electricity. The railway works also plan, together with the Högskulen, to conduct electrification in railway engineering from the autumn off. There has also been contact between the Railway Agency and NTNU to see if it is possible to create an experience-based master's degree in railway engineering, so that they, as already have a bachelor's degree, can emerge in part-time. One sees that such a master degree will be able to cover several railway subjects. In the autumn of 2010, the Railway Agency will conduct an invitation to tender aimed at high-spherics. The aim is to provide part-time further training for skilled workers who want to move on at an engineering level. It may be useful to establish Bachelor's degrees at more than one university.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e837	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's a lot of positive at different levels, from tradesmanship to master's degree, which is on the stairs. Education is central at all levels to ensure both reputation and reputation, not least the legitimacy of education and quality, especially as regards the railways, which we are now talking about. But also in order to recruit at different levels, it is essential that we have education. The railway system is due to a lack of competence. Railway engineering has been a subject of its own, but it has been out of the curriculum at NTNU because, among other things, has worn out with applicants. Railway engineering has been an education — a part of an education — in the study of construction, construction and transport at NTNU. Does the Council not see the need to re-establish the possibility of having a master's degree at a university level in a way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e846	Creating a master's degree in railway engineering is one of several themes that will be discussed between NTNU and the Railways. I'd say it's ambitious, what's here from the Railway Agency: plans for different levels of education and cooperation with different higher education environments. In addition, I have registered myself that they have an extensive cooperative activity, e.g. inviting students from higher education to installations where there is work. When I myself visited the Gift Box, there were two student groups from NTNU there, with the aim of recruiting more people from the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e853	Thanks for the answer. Self-education could give more status, provide more information about the subjects and also facilitate the promotion of the study. There are exciting challenges for the railways in the coming years in Norway. It is important to point out that it is actually possible for students to make their careers in the transport and rail sectors. Now the State Council itself says that the Railway Agency says that lack of competence will probably bother them over time. The first question concerns opening up opportunities for students in Norway, which we are now talking about, but also abroad, and cooperation with universities and universities outside Norway. Has the Council of State considered this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e860	It is a fact that one will have to struggle with competence in different fields within the railway industry in the future, not least because much more work is to be done, year by year. But then I would say that the Railway Agency itself has offensively taken hold of this. It is they, in cooperation with the higher education community, who need to take a closer look at what kind of education is needed. And then I get to make sure that funds are put at the disposal of the work to be done all the time. I believe that the representative must be very satisfied with the approach that the Railway Agency now has, and I will take with me what she has put forward here – on the importance of competence – back to the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e868	‘The government has initiated NOU 2009:3, which assesses the establishment of its own roadside supervision, and a majority of the sample that has carried out the investigation recommends the establishment of such supervision. The government has this in mind. How much will the establishment and operation of any roadside supervision cost?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e875	As the representative de Ruiter points out, a public selection has been set up to address the issue of own supervision. The selection, which was made in 2007, was responsible for assessing the creation of a possible independent road infrastructure oversight body. Such supervision should not, in relation to the mandate, be responsible for supervision directed at road users or vehicles. The selection presented a split position in February 2009, cf. NOU 2009:3. Safe path. A multiple of the selections went in to establish such a self-supervisory role in road infrastructure. A minority considered it unlikely to establish such a body. Since then, the selection report has been wide-ranging, and the Ministry of Transport actually received 59 hearing replies. In my opinion, in order to establish a new independent roadside supervision, it is necessary to provide evidence that this body provides increased road safety. The need for supervision must therefore be assessed against the impact this would have on road safety. In this, I implicitly demand that resources relate to the establishment and operation of supervision cannot be used more effectively on other measures to achieve such a goal. We need to be careful to suggest changes of this type without at the same time being able to support the fact that such changes provide more certainty. The selection assumes that an independent infrastructure supervisory body will have to have a crew in the range of 50 to 100 years. The experience of the other agencies under the Ministry of Transport shows that these agencies have an annual cost of something in excess of 1 million. kr. If we base these numbers, it means that the annual cost of such supervision could be between 50 and 100 million. kr. The costs associated with the establishment itself are not included in this estimate. One aspect that is also important is access to competence. The creation of a new independent body will further reinforce the major recruitment challenges that we already have and that we want in the years to come. There will be a great deal of the same competence as road sector supervision, as the road owner and road authority demand. A supervisory resource will always have an alternative use. Of course, the government's assessment is about how we can get the most security out of resources. As I have previously reported to Stortinget, I propose to provide an information on the government's assessment of this matter in the context of the 2011 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e888	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. I want to go back a little bit to what the Council of State concluded with, the effect and what one can get out of 50-100 million. kr to road safety measures in the year. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State the following questions: What can we get from road safety measures for 50 to 100 million. kr every year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e895	The selection presents figures that show that under certain circumstances, alternative use of resources that self-monitoring will require — perhaps about 100 million. kr – over a 10-year period can reduce the number of people killed and seriously injured by about 300. It is subject to certain conditions and more than ten years. That's one number. Something else is a middle divider. That's the average cost of 17.5 million. kr per km, so it can mean 6 km with middle parts. For rumblefields, the price is more reasonable. One can get 29 km of space for 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e902	These were quite interesting clarifications about what you can get from alternative use of the money. I have probably a question to the Council of State on the back of my mind: has a reflected on what are possible alternatives to roadside supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e909	One option might be to continue the responsibilities and the division of tasks that are currently involved. There's supervision of our roads today, too. Sometimes it is produced in Stortinget e.g. as if there is no supervision. The state road service is on the plate evenly both on the road and not least in connection with accidents. There are other supervisory tasks. So one option is to leave it as today. Another option may be to create a separate device within the Road Directorate. There may also be other options. These are assessments that I want to come back to in connection with the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e917	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘Haugesunds Avis on 6 May 2010 states that the Ministry of the Environment will participate with 17 members of staff from the Cultural Memory Department in connection with a well-founded visit to Odda and Rosendal. Other municipalities and action holders experience a very large number of state employees attending meetings where objections and mediation are on the agenda. At the same time, many lengthy procedural hours are experienced, and many state objections are also maintained after mediation. Does the Council of State consider such cases to be reasonable, or could it be less involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e926	I am, like the representative Kambe, very concerned that public administration should be effective, that there should be as short a period of time as possible, and that officials and for the part of politicians should work hard and ‘get up early in the morning’ in order to get matters out of hand. Having said that, I would like to say that this was a very well-founded trip. The criticism we usually get in the Storting is that there's too much caffè latte culture, as representatives of the Right and the Advance Party sometimes say, in the central government, that there's too much Oslo, and that people are too little out there. That case handlers working with cultural memories travel to such a central place for Norwegian cultural memories as Odda, I believe is very well justified. I want to go so far as to say that that's the opposite of the problem, that politicians and case handlers are too little outside. The problem is not that they're out too much. If you're going to be able to do a good job with something as central as cultural memories, you have to know the field. You have to be able to see it separately. You can't work on it just theoretically on paper, you have to be out there where it happens. Having seen cultural memories with your own eyes makes you work a lot better at it. I also notice that the questioner in his formulation of the question says that this was ‘a well-founded visit’. It was a very well-founded visit, and it woke, as I perceived it, very positive reactions in Odda that so many came. Let me just say in the end that cultural memories in Odda are very high on our priority list. We have a long tradition in Norway to take care of old buildings from farm culture, stave churches and many other cultural memories, but one of the main themes now is industrial memories. For a government that jumps out of the labour movement, it is clear that it is a very special obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e937	Thank you for a good answer. It's always fun with a government council that comes to the quiz without a script from the office. Some of the points were, as I wrote, that it was ‘a well-founded visit’. My point wasn't that. The hearing had quite a debate in connection with our opinion that, among other things, The Ministry of the Environment, with the officials of the Minister for the Environment, is over-managed and has too many employees. They have too many objections and obviously have so much time to deal with objections and abuses of local municipal decisions that they actually do. My follow-up question is therefore: does the Minister for the Environment have figures of how many objections he himself contributes to each year? Does he also have similar figures on how many issues are solved by mediation with the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e946	I hate to give imprecise numbers to the Storting, as it must be when I'm going to take it for my own memory. So I have to give this with the condition that I'll come back with more precise numbers, so that I don't bring the Size behind the light. There are, of course, a small number of issues raised in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In planning things, I think it's about 50 – but once again, with the condition that now it's in my memory. Sometimes it's an advantage that government councils come up with answers from the government, because that's when you're right on these points. But it's not the Ministry of the Environment that brings things in. It is the county that is responsible for ensuring that state laws and regulations are complied with – in essence, make sure that the Grand Council, often with the help of the Right, has been adopted, is put to work. But it happens on the basis of opposition from the state. I think we deal with 50 things a year, and we sometimes give the county straight and sometimes the municipalities right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e953	It's quite obvious that the state has far too many objections. Even when local and regional objections are raised by the county, there is mediation with the municipalities and, in the ultimate sense, the Ministry of the Environment. We believe that the county should have a significantly less opportunity to object to local plans with a wide local anchorage. What I could imagine asking about – just as part of my question – is that many people experience a long process for many of the issues in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. One of the issues that very many municipalities are waiting for is the state guidelines for, among other things. The 100-meter belt in the beach zone. The hearing period expired almost one year ago. When are they coming? There are a lot of municipalities that have called for it. The council and I have had an interpellation debate where we came up with requests for differentiation of the beach zone management, and that is what the department is working on. Is it true that there are too many people working with other things, that you're dealing with the local authorities' own affairs, rather than dealing with a differentiated beach area management?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e962	As far as the beach zone is concerned, we have introduced a third of this, which was not when the Right was in government – just to start with it. In that third, there is still some work with the municipalities that are in the middle category. In general, there are municipalities in Hordaland and Rogaland, and therefore, of course, of special interest to the questioner. We will come back with an initiative in this area in the near future. That being said, this is a fundamental disagreement between the Right and the Red-Green Government. I have to say, as I also had in a previous debate, I cannot clarify it in the Question Time now, that the Right as an Environmental Party was a fundamental setback, contrary to what we now see in the United Kingdom, where the Conservative Government is trying to take environmental considerations into account. It's a little unclear what Right thinks, but if you're going to take this seriously, it's going to be a fundamental retreat for the Right as an environmental party, and go against – as it's also documented in the Stortinget – what Right stood for when Børge Brende was Minister of Environmental Protection, and you were part of the Bondevik government. But the influence of the Christian People's Party on the Right and Børge Burnde's influence on the Right may well have gone out, so you can allow yourself to go very far back in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e969	The story goes back to question 1, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Prime Minister. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e975	‘What are the assessments made by the Prime Minister’ — or the Minister of Justice — ‘on the grounds that the proposals and the majority decisions of the Grand Duchy have been contrary to the Constitution for a second time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e980	First of all, I want to express my enthusiasm to be allowed to discuss this kind of question also in Stortinget, because these are important questions. It's about balance of power, it's about control, and it's about democracy. The Court of First Instance ruled on 12 May 2010 in favour of the Santa Claus directive, which provides for more favourable conditions for landowners on state grounds than otherwise provided by the Law on Landfills — a clearly important social system for many. The majority of the Supreme Court – nine judges – found that the instructions were contrary to the Constitution § 106, which, to the extent that properties owned by the Information Society’s fund – and I have to add – was a provision that was not so often tried in Norwegian courts. The Court of First Instance ruled on 12 February 2010 in favour of a recasting of the shipping tax system. A majority of six judges considered the conversion to be retroactive in contravention of the Basic Law § 97 – a provision that may otherwise have been applied more frequently. In both cases, the constitutional question was thoroughly investigated by the government. Oral hearings were held with several constitutional experts during committee proceedings in Stortinget, and the constitutional issue was fully commented on in the Odelstingen settings. Both judgments of the Supreme Court have been passed under this one, so that a minority essentially had the same view of the constitutional issue as the government and the majority of the population. This shows that such constitutional questions, which were raised in the two cases, are difficult, and that there may be different perceptions also among the top experts in this area. I have to add: had we had a template that could say something about legal standards, and how they were to understand – even when the Supreme Court is going to evaluate them, and also when it's against the Constitution – it could have been easy. But, fortunately, it's not like that. In both cases, the relevant legislative changes should take account of important societal considerations. In socially important matters, the government must be able to use the space for action which, after a thorough assessment, is considered to be within the boundaries of the Constitution. The government and the majority of the population believe that these two cases did not exceed these limits. Then it turns out afterwards that the Supreme Court has a different assessment. It must be expected that the Supreme Court may sometimes have a different view as to whether a law is in conformity with the Constitution than the Government and the Grand Duchy have. Testing for compliance with the Constitution is part of our constitutional system. The Constitutional Act § 106, as I said earlier, has not been tried for the Supreme Court for nearly 100 years. So far, we have been given clarifications about how this provision is to be understood, also in the light of the social developments that have taken place. The judgment on the shipowner's assessment gave important signals on the interpretation of the Basic Law § 97. The government takes this into account in its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e999	I am especially pleased that you take note of this, otherwise we would have a new state custom here in the country – and I hope we have not thought of that with the first, I hope. First, the fact that the Prime Minister does not choose to answer himself. He himself was there and presented the Santa Claus directive. It was then clear that it was appropriate for the Prime Minister to meet the public on the issue of the Information Society Fund. Responding to the violation of the boundaries of what the Constitution permits, he leaves to his government colleagues. I take note of that. But Storberget said when this was presented, that the state must go ahead with a good example. ‘With this decision, the State takes responsibility’ said Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. My question is, why didn't a safety margin be granted in spite of warnings, so that you didn't cross the provisions of the Basic Law?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1008	Let me just first establish that democracy has to endure the division of power and that power is controlled. Then, democracy and the institutions involved in the distribution of power must bear in mind that politicians – including myself – express disagreement with what became the conclusion and agree on the conclusion of the minority. That's the way it is. With regard to this specific matter, it is interesting that it is not the first time that the law on land ownership has been in the Supreme Court. So when the previous government contributed to a compromise on the redemption rules, it was also endorsed by the Supreme Court. So this shows that it's a kind of legislation and an area where politicians are impatient to get good solutions. I believe that both solutions made it possible to take care of both parties in the case. But then it's like, in these legal issues, there's a different view. We have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1015	What stands out anyway, is that the government has gone on two very serious defeats, despite numerous warnings in both cases that here one was crossing a line where one could risk a defeat if the cases were to come before the Supreme Court. Anyway, you went forward, and this isn't random. I quote here now the professional director of SV: ‘We are indicated. What was a political victory has now been nullified. It is problematic that the Government will find a political solution set aside by the Supreme Court in the next moment.’ This shows that there is something about the understanding of government parties that is failing. So to the future, with the loss you have now suffered with regard to the Information Society's fund, how does the government intend to prove the situation that has arisen? Do we get a case for the Storting with it all, first of all?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1027	I believe that this final judgment on the Santa Claus directive needs to be reviewed by the government. It's not in my department, but it's for the Minister of Renewal to handle that matter. I suppose she will come and inform the Storting about progress in an appropriate way, and I have to refer to her department in terms of further follow-up on how the sentence will be handled in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1032	The size then goes to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1038	I allow myself to ask the following questions to our competent Minister of Justice: ‘In cases where people who have converted and are seeking asylum in Norway, it must be of interest to all parties that as much information as possible to elucidate the matter is provided at the earliest opportunity. Among other things, it is essential to find out if the conversion is real. The environment around the converted and members of the church community in question is never contacted by UDI/UNE in the process of verifying applicants’ claims for conversion. Will the Council of State ensure that this is introduced as a standard procedure for dealing with such cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1047	Initially, I would like to stress that Norway is granting asylum to people who are being persecuted for their faith, including converts. Norway is bound by the Refugee Convention, and as a result, persecution on the basis of religion forms the basis for refugee status. The new Foreign Affairs Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, also makes it clear that freedom to change religion or other views of life is to be covered by the persecution of ‘religion’ in the Refugee Convention. As you know, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs are dealing with individual matters under foreign law. They shall assess on a case-by-case basis whether each asylum seeker is entitled to protection, based on the applicant’s own explanation and, inter alia, on: information on the human rights situation and the risk of persecution more generally in the area from which the applicant comes. A complete and free assessment of evidence is carried out. If there is doubt about the assessment, the doubt as a starting point will benefit the applicant as long as the consequences of an incorrect decision on the return may result in the applicant being subjected to persecution. It's important. Norwegian authorities have the burden of proving that it is safe to return. As far as possible, the applicant shall be responsible for the likelihood of such statements being made. At the same time, it follows from the Administrative Act that the administration is obliged to ensure that the case is as well informed as possible before any decision is taken. In this way, I am very much in agreement with the questioner in the responsibility he has to provide the information from the public. Since the burden of proof for safe return has been borne by the authorities, any refusal shall be subject to a thorough examination by the authorities and, where necessary, to the provision of information necessary for the proper conduct of an assessment. The adequacy of the facts in the case or the need to obtain further information will therefore depend on a concrete overall assessment of the individual case. I trust that the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs will obtain information where necessary, and make their assessments in the light of the correct facts. In this context, I do not see it as appropriate to provide guidelines on information retrieval in Convertibles and to address the issue of more firm rules of evidence. I think it'll actually be able to paralyze the system to a greater extent and contribute to the lack of sufficient evidence. But then I would like to stress that the questioner's relationship is so important that I want to include it in my dialogue with UDI and also UNE and refer to the question question and to the extent that my reply in Stortinget today is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1058	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I am pleased that he will bring this question to the foreign administration to see if this can also be if not a fixed procedure, so at least an element that can be involved and complete the practice we have today. The system and the treatment we have today, where converters, among other things, must answer what I will call knowledge tests, meet not always flash, to say it mildly. I know, among other things. to a case where a Baptist, one who was converted to a Baptist congregation, was asked about infant baptism. Clearly, when you convert to a congregation that does not do infant baptism, such questions are quite sought after. As I said, I am pleased that this issue will be brought before the foreign administration, and I hope that the treatment can be better than it is today when it comes to ensuring legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1065	We have general conversations with the UDI and, to some extent, with UNE on how the operation is. I think this is a natural question to raise in the general debate. The questioner knows that we do not go into individual matters, but we have the opportunity to have dialogue around just as important questions as this. I want to stress the importance of not just having dialogue with the applicants. At a time when we see that the number of asylum arrivals is falling so significantly – we say that asylum treatment should also go down, from 240 days and preferably down to 60 days, and aim to apply much of the system, while at the same time implementing settlement and deployment – it is all the more important that the decisions made are correct and good, because we know that there are important values at stake. So I'll take this with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1072	I fully agree with the Minister of Justice. We must have a secure system that ensures the security of asylum seekers. In the evening post today, there are questions about legal certainty, including: in UNE, and reference is made to several UNE rejections which have been converted after a new round of legal proceedings. Also in matters that concern the question I am travelling today, I know that, among other things. converted families have experienced the same thing, that a refusal in UNE was converted into residence. It is interesting to see whether these judgments can lead to a change in UN practice also in the case of converters. I don't know if the Minister of Justice has thought about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1079	We are well aware of the efforts made, in particular by the Association of Lawyers, almost pro bono, free of charge, for more. I have that attitude to it, first of all, that I think it's very good that it does. And then I believe that, in line with other authorities who have the ability to exercise coercive and take decisions that affect people's life situation most seriously, one must bear to be seen in the cards. I would also like to say that in the case of UDIs and UNE's decisions, I believe that a very good job is done, conscientiously, and you have the tab that you should not return when you risk being persecuted. Nevertheless, we have to bear in some of the cases that one is being tried by the courts. I believe that the judgments that have now come give us very important signals, and provide us with a good basis for work to look at, among other things. the appeals procedure we are now going to have, or review the UN appeals procedure, and that there is useful experience to bring with it. But that we get there that it will always be so that the courts will base UDI's and UNE's decisions, I don't think we will. For there are legal standards and assessments to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1088	‘According to the media, the government is planning to move today’s reception for asylum seekers at Tanum in Bærum to the existing Løren transit reception at Sinsen in Oslo. This has caused considerable concern in the local environment. Refstad/Sinsen is an area that already has significant social challenges. Does the Council of State agree that the State should not impose even more challenges on Oslo, and will the Council of State therefore take initiatives against the UDI so that those arrivals are not placed in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1095	The Ministry of Justice has the overall responsibility for asylum and refugee policy in Norway and, as I said in response to my previous question, we now have a development that is very good in the sense that the number of asylum arrivals is falling. The number of unwarranted asylum seekers also appears to be falling significantly. It requires that we have an effective operation, both in terms of processing and reception. Responsibility for the establishment and operation of asylum recipients has been delegated to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, and the UDI is responsible for ensuring that we have sufficient reception facilities at all times. In order to quickly process asylum applications, we depend on having a robust and flexible reception system that builds up under them. This is socio-economically very important. The party of progress is concerned about it at any turn. Asylum recipients are spread throughout Norway. However, in order to ensure the most appropriate organisation and effective asylum processing, it is important that the centre of arrival is located close to the place where asylum seekers register the application for asylum and where the initial procedure takes place. It will then bring together and coordinate the arrival functions in the best possible way; registration, information, asylum interviews, etc. This will help to ensure that several cases can be completed at an earlier date and to reduce the duration of residence in transit receptions. UDI has assessed several possible new arrival transit receptions as replacement for Tanum reception in Bærum municipality from the turn of the year 2011 – all honors to Bærum municipality and Tanum, who have done a great job. The Directorate has fallen into a temporary solution using the reception of Løren at Refstad in Oslo as a destination. This is considered a good solution, as reception is located near both the Foreign Affairs Unit and the UDI of the police. The transit reception has been in operation for 11 years. I can't see that the change of an existing transit reception to an arrival transit reception will put a heavy strain on the nearby environment at Refstad. The capacity at reception will be slightly lower than today, and the length of residence of residents at reception will also be reduced. As the top responsible for asylum and refugee policy, it is very important for me that we find solutions that enable us to carry out the whole of the tasks in the field as well and as efficiently as possible. It is therefore not relevant for me or the government to ask the UDI to find other temporary solutions for the arrival of asylum seekers. This is also announced to the Municipality of Oslo. At the same time, the UDI will continue its efforts to find a more permanent solution for the new arrival centre and will focus on continued good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1110	There was nothing surprising in the answer given by the Minister of Justice. I record that Oslo is being re-examined by this government, and this time it is actually going back over the mountain district, which first loses its local hospital, which is being replaced by a reception centre for asylum seekers. I am not sure if the jubilee is on the roof of the Workers' Party's representatives in the town of Bjerke, or I know it does not. It is a little surprising that they are not included on advice either. Last week I was in a meeting with the Oslo Police Association, and they have a completely different opinion from what the Council of State says now. They say it will require considerable resources – additional resources – for the Oslo Police if there is an arrival receipt in addition to what is now. At that time, resources have to be taken from elsewhere, and that means less legal certainty for the inhabitants of Oslo. So will the Council consider additional appropriations for the temporary period of time during which this arrival should be on the Laure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1117	First, I would like to stress that we have no experience that this type of reception – when you change the status, as you actually do here, and that people should be there shorter, and there should be fewer people there – would mean that there would be more crime. Where's that coming from? There is no experience from Bærum or Tanum that there has been a burden of some size for neither the police nor others. So when it's produced in the media as if this is going to be a crimp factory, I have to take a strong distance from it. It's an assessment of people on flight that I don't think is right. And then someone has to say from. So this is also going to be a temporary arrangement. I believe that a place that has been operating reception for 11 years, and that does re-establish the status in this way, will not be subject to a significant burden on it. But the paradox for me is that when we now put down many receptions around the country, the same cancers that were against the reception, are now on the track to keep the reception, precisely because there have been important subsidies to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1124	There were many inaccuracies here. That there's not much crime up on the West Market Center, at Tanum, may not be so surprising. There's not so many places to commit crime there, if you're not going to shoot a moose or something like that. But now Sinsen-Refstad is already a very heavily burdened residential area. There are many social clients and a lot of crime in the area there already. There is a lot of poverty relative in that area of Oslo. I assume that the Council of State does not believe that asylum seekers are a resource in the sense that they come with financial resources that can help to clean up the area up there, but thus contribute negatively. And this is what you do consciously. The Veterinary Institute – an attractive institution – has also been moved out of Oslo. You have a leader in the Center Party who runs a bullying campaign against Oslo, who called in for a press conference to bully Oslo, and then you take 3 billion. kr of the tax money of the citizens of Oslo and gives to the districts. This is a government characterized by district policy, and really is my question to the Council of State: Is the Council of State satisfied with the policy pursued against Oslo, and especially Groruddalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1135	I am pleased with the government's policy regarding Oslo. I see what we have now heard about the new municipal economy and the proposition that came in this connection, also shows that the government is taking hold around Oslo. In fact, when it comes to combating crime, the district that has had the most growth and money in recent years is precisely Oslo Police District. Only this year you have a growth of 12 pst., almost 190 million. kr, which is very well used, and which has contributed to the decline of gross house invasions in Oslo in the first three months of this year by nearly 50 pst. I would recommend the Progress Party to start looking a little bit more forward, and look a little more constructively at a part of what's happening out there in society. I think part of the reason voters turn their backs on some parties is that it gets too much acid and too much black.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1154	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1160	This question, from the representative of Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1163	‘Norwegian farmers are struggling to run economically. The Food Safety Authority states that where the loss figures exceed 10 pst., the site should be assessed as inappropriate. The new Animal Welfare Act allows the Food Authority to take the necessary measures to ensure acceptable animal welfare. Will the Council of State take action against predators so that Norwegian farmers can choose whether to have cultural landscapes or derelict areas where predators move freely?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1170	As the President noted, the question was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Since it's my formal responsibility, I'm the one who answers. But here we are in the luxury situation that the Minister of Agriculture can also make sure that the answer is good and correct. I'm sure he could answer it even better, but I'm answering on behalf of the government. The basic thing in this area is the predatory agreement concluded by the Stortinget in spring 2004. It was a broad agreement and the set stock targets for the large predators in Norway. For gloat and yerv, these targets are fixed. They've been reached. It also means that we've opened up too wide a hunt for both y'all and y'all, precisely because you've reached the stock targets. For wolves and bears, the stock targets have not been achieved, but also for those predators, there has been an increase, and that is of course why there are also a good number of conflicts associated with this. Now the government has invited Stortinget to a new and broad settlement on stock targets for these two species, and we will come back in 2010. I hope we can get a wide deal, and that we can also see it in the context of what the Swedes are doing, as both the wolf and the bear are moving across Norway and Sweden. When it comes to the direct question, we have a two-part objective in Norwegian anti-terrorism policy. It's combining grazing in District Norway and predators. I've talked about this a lot in Stortinget. It is a very difficult combination – a combination that very few countries have. Most countries that have predatory game and grazing do guesses. We do that to a small extent in Norway. For example, Sweden has not the same double objective in the districts. In order to improve this, we also have land-differed management with priority pastures, where there must be a low threshold for the felling of predators, and priority predatory areas, where grazing industries must do much to adapt to the need to be predatory in these areas. The aim of this geographically differentiated management is to contribute to a long-term and targeted strategy to both reduce the loss of livestock as low as possible – no farmer, no environmental protection minister and no others want to see losses of livestock – and at the same time to achieve the Storting goal of having viable populations of the four major predators. Then I have to say that in a very good cooperation between the Minister of Agriculture and myself – and many others as well – this government has introduced a series of measures to try to mitigate the conflicts that result in us having predators in Norway. The size was treated at the latest just a few weeks ago – I guess it was – new rules for emergency workers. We have set up fences – a controversial measure, but one that works. We have taken action to speed up the withdrawal of predators when a decision is made. And we announced last a couple of weeks ago in Hedmark that we will now pay hunting teams in Hedmark from the first day to take out predatory game when the withdrawal decision has been taken. So there is a lot to do to reduce conflicts, but unfortunately conflicts are inevitably given the double objective set by the Storting and for which there is broad, broad support in the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1185	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. But when he talks about trying to mitigate the conflicts, at least it's not something we talk to people around who see what's going on, see, because the conflicts just get worse and worse. I can quote from the Nations on 10 May, where three working party rapporteurs in Inner Helgeland fear abandoned sheep farming if the authorities do not allow the killing of the injured bear. The rapporteur, Mr Grane, said the following: ‘If the grazing industry continues to experience massacres in the field every summer, it is not long before the internal Helgeland is without sheep’s bones.’ This is quite serious for the industry. The industry is almost in a free fall because of predatory policies. So my question to the Council of State is, what's most important to the Council of State? Is it to protect all the predators, or is it to take care of a diet that we also need to provide food in the country and in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1197	With all due respect for the respondent, this is the type of issue that does not reduce conflicts in Norway, and it does not contribute to an informed debate. I do not know anyone, at all – not in Stortinget, not even in the toughest environmental organisations – who believes that all predators in Norway should be protected, which was the question. The broad majority of the Grand Duchy, as all polls show, agrees that a dwindling majority of the population is that we need to feed in District Norway. It's a healthy, important industry. It is also an environmental industry that makes reasonable use of land resources. But we also need to have viable populations of the four large predators. This is a conflict, and that is precisely why the government has implemented a series of measures to reduce conflicts. The reason why there are still considerable conflicts about this is that the policy is working. We've now had viable populations of several of the predators. This has led us to normalize the situation with ordinary hunting. The long-term goal is to be able to operate all predatory stocks with normal hunting in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1202	It's a little sweet to hear from the Council of State, which declares that by asking questions you don't reduce the conflict. So then it's going to be asking questions in this room about a conflict a democratic problem. I find that strange in response. The industry reports more abandoned uses than ever before. It wants cultural landscapes to be preserved. State Council Breck has often said and told how important it is to keep the cultural landscape in order, which I agree with the Council of State Breck in. But it's clear that you have to choose if you're able to carry on a business. I understand that the council will protect the predators, because SV is not exactly a party that is nutritious. So my question to the best friend of the predators, Solheim, is, when are you going to take the industry seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1209	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1212	Of course, there is no problem that questions are asked in Stortinget. It's not just the right of the guttering representatives, it's the duty, that is. that no significant number of critical questions to the government when they come from the opposition would not do their job. What is a problem, on the other hand, is when parties like the Progress Party are hammering away at views that no one has. Because there might be someone out there who had faith in the Advancement Party, and since the Advancement Party hit those positions, thought there was someone who meant it. There is no one — I repeat no one — who believes that all predators in Norway should be protected, that predators should not be taken out. The question is how to find the reasonable balance and the difficult balance between the use of outland-based sheep farming, and for that part also other outland-based industries, and predators. It's hard, but that's what the Big One has decided by a large majority. That's something it's a broad majority of the population, and something we're going to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1220	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: « the Member States of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have sold Møystad farm in Hedmark for SEK 7000000. The price indication was $4,200,000. On a general basis, this is not relative to what local politicians and administration have to do with having a buyer and seller who has agreed on a price above price/price indication. The selling price must then be reduced in order to be acceptable to the authorities under the legislation. Does the State have another rule for its sale?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1229	Of course, this does not apply to other pricing rules when the country is the seller of agricultural property, other than when others stand as sellers. The rate at Møystad farm is 4.2 million. kr, which was drawn up last summer, was made without a dwelling value supplement. Since the property is in relative proximity to the city of Hamar and has two residential buildings with a total gross area of more than 700 m2, the value of the dwelling is likely to be at its maximum value, i.e. One and a half million. kr according to the February round. After the first viewing, the broker reported an unusual interest, and even before the second viewing, there had been bids of 6.5 million. kr. The Ministry therefore asked the broker to set a ceiling for bids of 7 million. kr and to ask bidders to write about their own qualifications and plans for the property, in order to ensure optimal further operation of the farm. After this was announced to the stakeholders, there were three bids at this level. I want to make it clear that the department here acts as a seller in the same way as other sellers, and that there are local agricultural authorities, i.e. the municipality, which, in accordance with the applicable guidelines, decides within which price level a concession may be granted. The Ministry will, of course, comply with what the municipality considers to be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1243	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Around Norway it stands about. 40000 empty farms/small farms. These are farms for which there are buyers, and there are sellers. However, because the authorities do not approve the price, there are often no sales. So we're going to have a decay in the countryside because these are still going to be empty. Many react when you see that you have a rate of 4.2 million. NOK, comes up in a sales sum of SEK 7 million. NOK, as in this case here. But I asked only questions about this matter on a general basis. I don't want to go into detail here, because it's a completely different matter. But the problem is that, as I said, there are many buyers, and there are many sellers around in Norway of farms and small farms, the sum of which you agree is higher than the fare. Thus, the authorities do not accept that sum. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1252	It is true that there is a relatively large number of farms for which it could be possible to make a turnover. Of course, I want more farms to be traded. We have a price regulation mechanism that ensures that we get a price on farm that allows it to be possible to continue as a farm. It's part of our property law. We have recently had changes to this legislation through the pricing guidelines, including: is the housing value adjusted up by 100 pst. There are no formal reasons why it is said that it should not be possible to convert properties, and in many cases it is such that the municipalities make an assessment, and the price that is decided by the municipality becomes the price that is determined. It has to be because we want to give priority to those who are going into agriculture rather than those who are going out of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1259	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think I'm going back to this fare, which is from the book of Hedmark Eiendom. So there's a 4.2 million price indication. kr, there's nothing about the housing value coming up to 1.5 million. kr. It doesn't say it's a 5.7 million fare. kr, just so it's said. There's a price indication of 4.2 million. NOK, and the government sells for SEK 7 million. kr. Then you get a gap of almost 70 pst. And if it had been like this in every municipality, you would have accepted a difference of 70 pst. in relation to the tariff, there had been no close to 40000 small farms/farming in Norway. Then they had been sold, then there had been light in the windows, then there had been refurbishment, they had driven with something on those farms. But as the policy is being pursued today, unfortunately there is no light in the windows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1264	I do not know if I should interpret it so that the representative Bredvold here wants price control as a system or is opposed to price control as a system. What is the case here is that there is a rate last year, the property was put out for sale this year, and there was an immediate bid of 6.5 million. kr. There was a 7 million frame. kr, there were three bidders that paid $7 million. kr, and at the same time gave a description of what they wanted with the property. One of the bids is selected. Then an assessment of the price level will be made by ordinary procedures in the municipality, and the state will of course have to deal with the price rentals that the municipality will obtain, like all other sellers. So the question is whether this is a correct system. Yes, that's the right system, because in that way we give priority to those who are going into agriculture, rather than those who are going out of agriculture. We give priority to young people, we give priority to those who want to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1274	I have the following questions: ‘In 2007, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency concluded that the Stad Sjønstunnel was 1,7 billion. kr is socio-economically viable. In spite of this, the government believes that the project needs to be investigated and quality assured once again, even if it has been investigated for 21 years. The father is big because the project is pushed into the blue and never becomes any of it. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the ship's tunnel be realised, not least in terms of safety at sea. Why will the Council of State not ensure that the project is realised so that safety at sea can be improved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1283	As the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide refers to, it was decided in 2007 to launch new investigations on the City Ship Tunnel. The background to the investigations was, among other things: recorded by the rapporteurs of the counties of More and Romsdal and Sogn and Fjordane. The Coastal Station was commissioned to carry out a new investigation into the City of the Ship's Tunnel. One of the exploration options is a ship’s tunnel of larger dimensions so that the high-speed route and other vessels of similar dimensions can pass through the tunnel. The location of a ship's tunnel with larger dimensions makes it necessary to carry out external quality assurance of the project. This applies to all State projects in excess of 500 million. kr, and shall ensure that the investigation is of good quality. New investigations are under way to meet improvement points resulting from the quality assurance process. This includes, inter alia: requirements for better documentation of the needs and utility of a ship’s tunnel. This does not mean that questions are asked by the fact that the tunnel will have a social utility. However, the data base as of today is not good enough, but needs to be improved. Work is somewhat delayed, but it is scheduled to complete phase 1 of the quality assurance in 2011. This means that work is still on track in relation to the timetable outlined in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The national transport plan indicates that the government has made use of funds so that the project can possibly be launched during the last half of the planning period. The prerequisite for start-up is that the project has social benefits and that the government decides to go ahead with the project. Based on phase 1 of the external quality assurance, further management of the project must be considered. The decision will be duly brought before the Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1298	Since the 1980s there have been innumerable investigations into the tunnel, and several millions have been used, among others. from the Coastal Works and the City of Skipstunnel AS. Several mills have been in swing, and this with a larger dimension of the tunnel has also been part of the work. In the last two and a half years, the government has been working to ensure the quality of a report from the Coastal Agency that suggests construction. For the same number of years, the impact assessment has been quality assured by external consultants. On 12 May, the government announced that we need a new impact assessment. Does not the Council of State have confidence in the thorough work done by the Coastal Agency here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1305	All such projects are related to formalities, and as I said in my answer, when we talk about projects with a size-frame of over 500 million. kr, according to the rules to which we relate, one is obliged to carry out external quality assurance. This is a big project. I have now been able to read up. I should also admit that it is a matter of longevity. I have a history in the Ministry of Fisheries from many years back, then this case was actually also up, so when I now came back after quite many years, I must admit that I was a little surprised that that matter was still there. But I have, as I said, read it to myself, and with the changes that have come in relation to not least the size, it is necessary to do a thorough and good procedure, so that one is perfectly clear on all matters that need to be taken into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1312	There are no new changes that have been made. The fact that you want the fast route and larger ships to enter the tunnel has been in the paperwork for a long time. Now many people are asking themselves why this postponement has happened again. I would like to ask a specific question to the Council of State: Is it possible to gain insight into the reasons for the postponement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1319	What came into 2007, which is new, is related to the size. I would also like us to be able to do all the investigative work in the shortest possible time, but we keep the timetable outlined in the national transport plan; I repeat it. With regard to the documents requested, they are exempt from disclosure on the grounds that there is a case-by-case preparation in relation to the submission of the case. The investigation will be public when it is completed and quality assured. Then, of course, all documentation will be provided. However, after what I have been described, it is the normal procedure that case preparation is exempted from public disclosure until the case is submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1329	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs – which I hope are not without publicity: ‘The government’s 2010 government proposal for a government budget has been based on a 360 million revenue flow. kr as a result of allowing an increase in MTB, maximum authorised biomass, by 5 pst. for the farming industry. Later, this authorisation has been postponed, including: reference to excessive salmonillus in individual installations. When it can be expected to notify the increase in MTB of 5 pst. will be available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1338	In the 2010 government budget, revenue of about 360 million was added to the budget. kr related to the remuneration of increased maximum authorised biomass in the salmon and trout feed industry. In the autumn of last year, the Food Safety Authority reported that the salmon situation along the coast was significantly worse. Therefore, in December, it was decided to postpone the decision on capacity increase in 2010 until we were able to further assess developments in the salmon situation. We would like, among other things: ensure that the efforts made to combat salmon fever provide the necessary results. The April figures show a decline in the lice level in all regions. It's a positive trend, but I think it's still too early to conclude. We are now waiting for the results of the spring break, which will give us a clearer picture of how the situation has evolved. The spring break was completed in April, and the effect of this is to look at the Food Safety Authority's overview of lice numbers for May. The figures for the May month are published in mid-June. When we have a good enough basis for this, we will start to assess the growth of salmon and trout in 2010. In the revised national budget, we have explained that there is uncertainty about the income allocation from increased MTB. However, it is difficult to give a better estimate right now than that provided in the original budget. If there were to be budgetary implications of the final decision on the capacity increase in the salmon and trout feed industry in 2010, the government will return to the Stortinget with it during the harvest session.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1353	I must say, personally, that sometimes one is surprised that there is no more detail in the presentation of the revised national budget, in the case of such a large item in the budget, i.e. 360 million. kr, than is the case here, because it is clear that it would have consequences for other areas if this were also to be included in the budget. But I'm not going to say that that's the reason why you haven't done anything about this. Let's go back a little bit to what the Council of State was about, the lice problem. In Finnmark and in Nord-Troms we do not have lice problems because the waters are so called that lusa – i.e. this crustacean – does not thrive. So there you would actually have the opportunity to expand the capacity without it being a problem with lice. The figures for April show a decrease from 0.3 to 0.15 per. fish, which is a very happy development. Let's hope it persists. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State assess whether, in those areas which do not have problems with either resistant lice or lice in general, it will be possible to increase capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1364	I have just been to Finnmark and met the farming industry there. What we discussed most was probably not exactly an increase in MTB, all the time they still have a share of it before they use the capacity at the total level. Simple top runners probably do it today. It's right as the representative says, that the lice problems are significantly smaller in Troms and Finnmark. But there's probably some lice in between there too, so we should be aware that the lice problems have spread northward. It's not that many years since it was insignificant with lice in Northern Ireland, so it's probably moved a little northward. Yes, of course I'll evaluate it, because it's an area that, after all, has become better. The most important thing now is that we actually manage to secure the wild melt freeway into the ocean. I hope we'll get an answer to that, and then we'll also get back to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1373	I would like to refer to the debate that was under the oral question procedure today, linked to the opinion of the Council of State, among others. in Vega, Northern Ireland, where the Council of State has shown that we need to increase the level of processing. That is, we also need to have increased market access. Now we have very good market access on salmon. I must be allowed to state from this pulpit once and for all that the farming industry in Norway is a success story – a success story that we must pass on. We must now make sure to take advantage of the opportunities we have in the market, because the farming industry is something we really need to invest in in the years to come. Then it's fixed from my side once and for all. Will the Council of State, when the April figures are available, ensure that a decision is taken to ensure that if the figures for the lucerne situation move in the right direction, a rapid clarification is given, so that we can just use the goodwill that is in the market today, the demand that is actually for Norwegian salmon, for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1382	I very much agree with the representative that Norwegian farming is a success story. But when that's said, I think we should be honest and admit that it's also a industry that has some reputational problems for the time being. I have challenged them to take it very seriously and do something about it. I'm in very good dialogue with the industry, but then it's with reputation as usual, that's not what you're saying, but what you're doing. Now the industry has the opportunity to actually show that they're taking this very seriously and doing something about it. I feel very calm that the answer will be positive. But as I said, I want to have final results related to the spring break before I draw a conclusion, but as soon as we have the certainty that the lucerne situation is under control, I will of course sit down and assess the growth previously announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1389	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-26.ana.ud2104e1402	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President assumes that the last representative present in the Chamber does not request the floor before the sitting is cancelled? It is confirmed. - The meeting's been cancelled.
