ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e90	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e98	On behalf of Per Arne Olsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I have the great pleasure of promoting a proposal for a representative to secure the offer in the age psychiatry and the competence of the NKS Klöverhagen in Ringebu, Oppland, until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e117	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines after the submission by the President of the case and up to four lines after the submission by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e126	In the Soria Moria statement, we stress that the main task of the Government is to prevent, and I record that there is a great deal of cross-political consensus on that in this matter. Prevention of fire safety is central to fire protection and the important interaction between public and private actors is emphasised. It is a clear objective that the number of fires and the number of people killed in fires should be reduced. This is a challenge that requires everyone to take responsibility. Individuals must take responsibility for the safety of owner-occupied dwellings. Owners and landlords of dwellings must follow their obligations and businesses and industry must comply with the legislation in force, with particular emphasis on internal control. Fires cause the loss of human life every year and cause suffering to those affected – directly and indirectly. Societal economics leads to high costs of fires in the form of health expenditure and damage payments. We've done a lot to reduce the risk and consequences of fires, and we now have fewer building fires than before. Targeted efforts at prevention work are, in my view, a proper main strategy to prevent fires from occurring. At the same time, unfortunately, we have to admit that in the years 2007 and 2008, we had the highest number of casualties in fires in nearly 30 years. It is worrying, but there was a clear improvement in the figures in 2009. What gives rise to further concern is that the group of elderly and disabled people is particularly hard hit. It is sad to record that as far as this year, 16 people have died in fire, and the statistics are confirmed by the fact that 14 of these persons were over 70 years of age. One of the most recent fires of death we had in Fredrikstad, where a 92-year-old lady lost her life. Municipalities also play an important role in older residents. First of all, municipalities should have an overview of the health situation of the elderly, so as to take a balance between intervention in the private lives of people and the provision of safer housing or accommodation for those who are no longer able to take care of themselves. My experience of the time as rapporteur is that the vast majority of older people want to live at home, and this generation has a great desire to live by itself. Lack of nursing homes or nursing homes is also a contributing factor in older people choosing to live in a familiar environment. Targeted prevention efforts are the main strategy of the Workers' Party to prevent and reduce the consequences of fires. However, prevention efforts will never completely prevent fires and other acute incidents from occurring. We therefore want to improve the preparedness and handling capacity of such events. There are many reasons why it burns a lot in Norway, but electrical faults and incorrect use of electrical equipment are in total the main cause and cause about 35 pst. by all building fires. This is too much, and it's a field that I'm glad it gets focused on. Checks on electrical installations are carried out statistically only every 20 years. I believe that a mandatory control of the electrical system at each property transfer would be a good measure to reduce this type of fire cause. This will be a great security for new home owners as well. Unreplaceable cultural-historical buildings have been lost in recent years. The Working Party believes that fire protection for cultural historical buildings must take priority over material values in general. It shakes both the communities and the nation when we see protective buildings lost in fire. We have many examples of this in the past, and it is enough to mention Våler Church in Hedmark and Hönefoss Church. We can't sit still and watch these amazing values literally go up in smoke. I am therefore pleased that the Government assesses whether the Fire and Explosion Protection Act and the Cultural Memory Act ensure the fire safety of cultural historical objects in an appropriate way, and that the work on securing these values will be prioritised. The ban on selling rockets for private use, introduced from the New Year celebration in 2008/2009, met with some resistance, but we see today that this has had a positive effect, and that the damage figures for both injuries and fires have fallen. As a volunteer fireman for many years, I know that in the municipalities we have a fire service that is ready for action at short notice, regardless of the day and time of the day. The fire services are well equipped to handle the wide variety of tasks they face, both preventive and emergency. I am therefore concerned about whether the many smaller fire services will be able to cope with the demanding task that meets them when major adverse events and accidents occur. I therefore believe that much broader inter-municipal cooperation within the fire and rescue services should be developed in order to increase the safety of citizens and, not least, to make better use of equipment and competences. In order to prevent fire in high-risk establishments and plants, the focus on systematic safety work will be continued as the basic governance vis-à-vis businesses with a high fire and explosion risk. The supervision of specific fire objects such as restaurants, discos and concert venues is continued and further developed. The role of civil defence in society is important, and we are now taking action to further strengthen it by bringing together training activities at Starum. This will bring together the expertise and preparedness work in civil defence in a good way, in my opinion. At the same time, I am pleased that the continued use of Vagle clay as a possible regional centre for rescue and preparedness work is being facilitated. In the last few days I have also registered a rumor that there are thoughts about the closure of the Fire School in Tjeldsund. I use this opportunity to cancel that rumor. This is not, and has not been, the topic during the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009. Of course, the working party supports the idea of a zero vision for the number of casualties in fire. However, on the road to the optimal goal, through prevention, supervision, control and increased focus on fire protection work in owner-occupied dwellings, one seeks to achieve the intermediate target of ever fewer deaths as a result of fire. Preventive action will never completely prevent fires and other acute incidents from occurring, but with simple measures and focus on fire safety, a clear improvement will be achieved. I am pleased that in 2009, the Minister of Justice set up a separate Special Committee on Social Security to contribute to a strengthened overall prevention work. I think everyone sees the need for a strengthened preparedness and handling capacity for major adverse events in an increasingly technological society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e166	Then it is opened for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e169	The rapporteur was concerned about prevention and its importance, and we can certainly agree on that throughout the Committee. Now it is that much of the prevention work is based on the training that firefighters, among other things. and we know that the situation at Norway's fire school is not exactly clear, and the need for materials and equipment is reasonably precarious in order to be able to give the offer to Norway's fire school. Information has also been obtained from a professional team on how much is involved in these deficiencies. My question to the President-in-Office is: Will the President put pressure on his own government to give Norway's fire department the resources they need to upgrade equipment and materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e174	The description of the situation at Norway's fire school that the representative Ørsal Johansen here comes with, in my view, it has no roots in reality. After the information I'm in, there's a lot of relief capacity, there's satisfactory facilities at the school. The fire department is properly run. It has a modern fire station and vehicle, it has good exercise equipment. With regard to the exercise area, we might have to take some self-criticism, and we have to assume that it will always be in a room where there is a great heat effect, a lot of wear. There will be a constant need for continuous maintenance in such a training field. But I don't share the opinion of Ørsal Johansen here that everything is bad, but we get to take it when the budget comes to treatment. That's where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e179	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review, but I have a question in relation to sanctions practices. The majority do not justify the need for a better and more stringent sanctioning practice against homeowners who do not provide security of fire for their residents in their buildings. Can the rapporteur say anything about why it seems that food surveillance and screening should be given priority over the enforcement of the legislation and the penalties for breaches of the Fire Safety Code, which must be said to be so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e186	Penalties for each owner of the house are a delicate theme. One has the privacy to maintain. It is easier to impose sanctions on traders — whether they are in the hotel and restaurant industries, or whether they are in industry. But as far as the individual owner of the house is concerned, it has always been the responsibility of the owner to provide security in his own home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e191	The President takes the view that the representative Oktay Dahl is asking for an additional reply. That's the room, and he gets it right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e194	The question was not about the individual owner of the house inside his own home. This concerns the responsibility of a homeowner for other residents who use his premises, e.g. Thon or others who have tenants, given that there is no fire safety in stairways, etc., and that there is simply a risk that some people may be killed because the owner of the house has not been aware of his responsibility and provided fire safety – on behalf of others. So this isn't about getting into apartments; it's about the responsibility for buildings like someone, for example. have commercial interests in, but not necessarily restaurants and other premises. I think the representative may have misunderstood my question. I don't know if the question is clearer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e201	The question is clear enough. If the law is not sufficient today in terms of penalties, a look at the law in order to change the law so that one has the opportunity to get in. There have been some serious incidents in such establishments. It's one of the things society should handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e207	The representative Lillehovde of the Workers' Party says he's a volunteer fireman. I'm glad, because then he might know a lot about what this is all about. The government started in so far as a good arrangement was to train volunteer firemen. But what happens – among others. This happened last year – is that you withdraw the money and use it on a call-out dress for the civil defense. This means that education stops. Education shall be completed on 31 December 2011, and due to lack of money today, there is no opportunity to do so. As the representative knows, you need material and knowledge to move out. I myself was 20 years old in the profession, and they assist small municipalities with convocations, because they are not able to enter the house because they have not received the training they were supposed to have. Then my question is: Will the government take responsibility for the security of all the small municipalities where there has been a lack of security and lack of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e218	I was in my post about exactly this with the conditions in small municipalities. I think it will be important in the future to continue with more inter-municipal cooperation in order to address precisely such challenges as the representative here addresses. Otherwise, part-time fire education has become significantly better in the last ten years than it was in the time I was in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e225	The proposal to lay down Vagle clay has triggered reactions both among individuals and in a number of counter-incidents, because they see it as a weakening of the offer. Now the momentum of economics and savings has been part of the argument on which it is based on this question. I would like the rapporteur to explain these cost savings – assuring that one will actually save money. And when you need to build skills, is it wise to lay down Vagle clay?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e232	To date, we have had three centres of expertise – Granåsen, Vagle clay and Starum. In the civil defense, we have an overcapacity in education, it's significant overcapacity. Each of these centres uses about 25 pst. of its capacity. It is a training capacity adapted to 60,000 people in civil defence, while in today's civil defence there are only 8 000 people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e237	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e240	It's an important matter we have to deal with today, a matter that there is a great deal of agreement about, but also a matter that should give leadership and hopefully be involved in helping us to reduce the number of fires and the loss of life in Norway. The fire service thus has an important task, both in terms of prevention and in terms of rescue and fire operations. One of the fire service's tasks is inter alia: supervision of domestic firing plants. In this context, pipe inspection is very important. There is a large difference between municipalities and municipalities in the way this inspection is carried out. The point of progress is of the opinion that we have to tighten up the requirements here. At regular intervals, we believe that an internal inspection of pipes should be carried out to detect defects. Then it does not help to stand on the roof and light down in the pipe with a flashlight. If we're going to get effective control, we also have to use video cameras. This should, in our view, become mandatory. At the same time, we know that faults and defects in electrical installations account for a large part of the fires. This is where too little resources are spent on supervision and control. If the number of fires is to be reduced, an effort must be made in this area. Resources must be allocated to enable good and effective control to be carried out. It does not help with good intentions of control if this is not followed up with financial resources. But it also helps little that one by checking only points out defects and defects. If these checks are to have a good effect, the supervision, in our opinion, must also have the possibility to impose improvements. In this context, it is also necessary to introduce a system of penalties to ensure that these obligations become effective. It is a necessity if one really wants to achieve a positive effect of supervision and control. In order for the preventive work as well as the rescue and decommissioning work to be good and professional, we depend on well-trained personnel. Norway has a good fire service, but it can also get better. As conditions develop, we may be at risk of the opposite happening, namely that we get a worse fire service. The people of the fire department are dependent on good education and training, and in order for them to be able to do so, educational institutions must be of the highest quality. Norway's fire department is of good quality. But we also know that the quality is not as good as it really should be. This applies to both training facilities and exercise materials. We see it as very necessary that the revised national budget now allocates funds for the maintenance and upgrading of existing training fields, so that Norway's fire school can offer top quality education. At the same time, it is very important that one now upgrades and replaces worn and out-of-date material. According to professional environments, the standard of material and equipment at school is in such a constitution that in the near future training cannot be maintained according to adopted regulations and requirements. This one cannot live with in the richest country in the world. But it also doesn't help with top modern equipment if you don't have the resources to send firefighters to education and training. Today it is approx. 5,000 volunteer firefighters waiting to receive their regulatory training. That is approx. 300 courses. When one then has the opportunity to arrange 20 courses a year, this will take time. It says itself. Therefore, a resource allocation to Norway's fire school is necessary to enable them to carry out the courses required by the regulation. Finally, I would like to refer to a note on page 5 of the setting. It says: ‘The Committee also points out that the government wants civil defence to be strengthened by bringing together training activities at Starum. This is in agreement with the Committee.» It is said by an incurrency that the Progress Party and the Right agree. It's wrong, so I hope it can be corrected. We will not be responsible for such an observation. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e262	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e265	On the right, this is a good message. It is a communication that continues important principles and measures and provides guidance for some new ones. The rapporteur presented the matter in a good manner. The right is essentially supporting the approach that the Government has taken, but I want to, on behalf of the Right, issue some issues. The right has had very many useful meetings and own hearings with, for example: Fire-fighting Joint Organisation. They represent important parts of the private actors, which are said by the public to want to improve interaction. I hope that the Council of State can confirm in its statement that he will include this wide-ranging organisation when preparing the meat on the skeleton as a message that this is in nature. At least it has to be a skeleton with very good calcium content. On the right, the government specifically asks to note this organisation's observation that the oversight exercise under the direction of the municipal fire brigades is not working well enough. We also ask the Government to get a better overview of why there is so little penalty for breaches of the Fire and Explosion Protection Act. There are no procedures, as far as I am aware, to record the extent of the frequency of the use of sanctioning agents after supervision and, where appropriate, the penalties applied. As stated in a reply to the rapporteur, there is a different practice of food surveillance/discovery versus the responsibility of the owner of the house. There might be good reasons for that, but I don't think all the reasons are the same. Whether the legislation is too weak, I ask the Council of State to clarify. Does the Council share the rapporteur's view that it is appropriate to look at the legislation and consider any changes to it in order to ensure more stringent penalties in the event of a breach of the law? The right also believes that it is important for the Government to continue working with the challenges that have arisen in view of the specific challenges facing foreign workers and asylum seekers with a view to getting better dialogue with them. The fires we've seen in, for example. The Urtegate and the Drammen, should have been better prevented. In addition, we ask for a comment on whether the funding schemes of, for example, housing sprinklers or so-called mobile automatic extinguishing systems for persons in need of care or in need of escape assistance are adequate and adequate today. I also ask the Council of State in a later article to clarify whether the Government will help to ensure that there are clear guidelines on the relationship between the fire service and agreements on how notices of smoke detectors from the customers of the companies are to be handled by the fire service. It is not just the interaction reform that requires better cooperation across municipal borders – rather fewer municipalities. The right is not opposed to the development of incentives for more municipalities to engage in inter-municipal cooperation, but the question is whether the tendency of the municipal sector to develop inter-municipal companies is much better for democracy than changes in municipal borders. In conclusion, the right will warn that the Civil Protection Centre, Rogaland Civil Protection District, Vagle Camp in Sandnes, is being closed down. A clear majority of the hearing bodies and environments with significant competences in civil protection, social security and preparedness have, both in the past and now, rejected proposals for the co-location of civil defence competence centres. Putting down when it comes to undercovering crews, and when training centres have to go far beyond their social mission to provide sufficient income – we are a little in doubt whether it builds up below what can be considered realistic economic gains from any co-location. The right does not see the need for skills development in civil defence just getting smaller in the time to come. Finally, on behalf of the Right, I would like to inform you that we support proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, which has been promoted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e286	Let me start by saying that fire protection is an important societal task that SV is very concerned about. For SV it is important that we have a zero vision in the case of casualties in fire. There must be a goal for society that no life will be lost in fire. The prevention must then be in the high seat. It is therefore reassuring that, at the request of the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has set up a working group to review the responsibility of housing owners for fire safety in owner-occupiers and assess the appropriateness of current fire protection requirements relating to dwellings and the arrangements we have for information, supervision and control. The working group has already had its first meeting and will deliver its appointment to the Ministry of Justice by the end of 2010. We're looking forward to this. It is important that this group looks at all aspects of fire prevention. Most older people will live in owner-occupied dwellings for as long as possible, and society wants to facilitate this. At the same time, we need to be aware that this increases the risk of fire and loss of human life. We need to look at how we can work so that older people can live in their homes as far as possible, while at the same time ensuring that these homes are fireproof. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government has announced that a sample will be set up by the end of April to review and assess the fire safety of specific risk groups living in ordinary dwellings and in nursing homes. People with disabilities need appropriate fire protection. There is no lack of technical solutions. New dwellings will have a proper and modern fire protection, but it is important that existing buildings are also reviewed for the necessary fire-technical upgrade, as was also provided for in Ot.prp. No 45 for 2007-2008 on provisions of the Planning and Building Act. We know that many people lack language skills because they are either in the country on short assignments, are guest workers, or because their residence in Norway is short. At this stage, it is vital that they receive good information on fire safety. It is necessary to ensure that this information is provided in a language controlled by the recipient. Employers, owner-occupiers and municipalities must be conscious of their responsibilities. The Ministry of Justice will strengthen its efforts with centrally organised campaigns linked, among other things, as demonstrated by the Storing Communication. migrant groups and foreign guest workers. As from 1 July of this year, smoke detectors in new dwellings will be required to have electrical power supply. That's good. It will save many lives, and many will escape material loss and other suffering. It is important to ensure that there are smoke detectors that work according to the purpose of all dwellings and not only in new dwellings. Our cultural heritage deserves increased fire protection. Unfortunately, we have seen that church buildings of high cultural value have gone up in flames. Then the story is lost. There's a lot of emotion going on. The last recent example was the Church of Henefoss. We have to take this seriously and make sure that cultural history doesn't go up in smoke. As the SV of Oslo, I am very concerned that the fire safety of those travelling by tram and train is maintained in the metropolitan area as well as in the rest of the country. Unfortunately, we have seen that fire or passageway to fire in the infrastructure of the capital can have major consequences. The fire at Oslo Central Station in 2007 was such an example. This must not be repeated – we must take this seriously. And finally, I want to thank those who do this great job, those who often risk their own lives to save the lives of others. We can't thank them enough. The best thanks can and will be that we ensure that they have good opportunities to maintain and enhance their skills and have good equipment to do the job they are set to do, and that they put their heart into. So thank you to our firefighters out there!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e307	Losing his house in fire is felt as a tragedy, and even worse, it is of course when life is lost. Fires in tunnels can have dramatic consequences, and in forest fires, large values can be lost. In case of a fire in sheltered buildings, we lose cultural memory that is important parts of our history, and in its own way withdraws the lines back to earlier times. Today, we are discussing the spillage message about the prevention of fires and about the fire service's rescue tasks. In this message the Government makes a lot of effort to prevent these fires. At the same time, she points to important measures that can help reduce the number of fires in the future. The municipal fire service is a key factor in the prevention work and shall oversee that people with property take responsibility for securing themselves against fire. It's about securing material values, but most of all it's about securing life and health. The fire department is responsible for preparedness and rescue operations throughout the country. In some places, intermunicipal cooperation could lead to better fire protection, and municipalities that do not participate in such cooperation would be encouraged to assess it more closely. I want to bring forward the great effort that both paid staff on a full-time basis and not least the volunteer part-time teams do for society in this way. It is important that they receive good training and adequate training, and also that the compensation they receive is best placed at their responsibility and at their efforts. In particular, the elderly and the infirm are the ones who lose their lives in fires. With the coming wave of older people, it goes without saying that there is a danger that the number of mobile homes will also increase. It is crucial that measures to prevent this are implemented. Better warning systems, better information and walking through the homes of the elderly and disabled to detect potential fire risks are examples of such measures. Hopefully, this big message will help us get a big step closer to our zero vision – that no one will lose their lives in fires. It is not easy to achieve that goal, but all targeted actions that can save lives go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e322	We know that individuals and families are suffering from fire every year, and the worst is when human life is lost. Unfortunately, we see that more people have lost their lives in fires in recent years, and that in recent years we have had the highest number of casualties in fires in nearly 30 years. Some of these lives could have been saved through relatively simple grips, such as the installation and control of smoke detectors and through better control of the electrical system in dwellings. Therefore, the Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that the main strategy for fire protection must be focused on prevention in the future. The Christian People's Party also supports the national targets for the fire protection work set up by the Government. In particular, I want to highlight the point of avoiding the loss of irreplaceable cultural historical values. The Christian People's Party supports the announced review of the law to assess whether today's laws are appropriate for ensuring the fire safety of cultural-historical buildings. Our church buildings are among the most important historical buildings, and the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation that an assessment be made as to whether the laws of the day, culture memory law, and fire and explosion protection law are good enough to preserve the fire safety of church buildings. Of course, the municipalities are responsible for church building, but when many of the municipalities do not even have money to warm up the churches, it is unfortunately often so that church security is easily pushed on. It is therefore regrettable that the state allocation established by the introduction of new church law, which would go to a number of joint church measures, including church security and insurance, has been gradually reduced over several years. A church fire creates great despair in the communities, and there is no house attached to it as strong feelings, both in sorrow and joy, as a church building. I myself have experience with it from my time as a priest, when the Gjerpen church burned in 2003. I hope the Government will look at the possibility of increasing this budget line again, because although the municipalities are responsible for the churches, it is of national importance that we ensure these well, even in the future. The prevention of fires that paralyze critical social functions is one of the national objectives of fire protection. This is very important. On November 28, 2007, a fire broke out at Oslo S. The trains stopped going – unfortunately we have been used to that lately! But then it also went beyond telephony, broadband – yes, even Norwegian emergency preparedness was affected by a simple cable fire at Oslo S. In 2006, the National Audit Office wrote that a fire affecting the operation of the police data centre will lead to the decommissioning of large sections of police information systems. According to the Newspaper, the police director then stated that the likelihood of such an event is small, but that the consequences are serious if it should happen anyway. The event in Oslo S in the autumn of 2007 showed that it could happen. Moreover, the incident illustrated with all clarity how one fire can create large chain reactions in one place. Complicated communication and computer systems were eliminated and the fire revealed significant weaknesses in the backup systems. It is important that systems that govern vital social functions are well-secured and that there are necessary backup systems. The Christian People's Party further records that the Government will bring down the Civil Defence Emergency and Competence Centre – Vagle Camp in Sandnes – and that the entire training capacity will focus on one centre at Starum. The Christian People's Party does not believe such a collection of training and competences is the way to go in a social security and preparedness perspective. We think it needs to be close to the users and regions to be served. The majority of hearing bodies and environments that have significant competence in civil protection, social security and preparedness have also been negative to such co-location. They lack an impact assessment, and they believe that the economic benefits expected from co-location are unrealistic. Civil defence shall assist society in the event of events such as extreme weather, accidents, terror and environmental disasters. A little suggests that the need for skills development in civil defence will be less in the coming time – rather the opposite. On this basis, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal for the Progress Party and the Right, where ‘allows the government to maintain and further develop today’s Centre of Competence at Starum and to maintain Vagle clay in Sandnes’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e352	Since the Justice Committee is largely responsible for this matter, I find it reasonable to inform you that only a few hours ago we lost a police officer in office. The government – I am counting on those present in the Chamber as well – has expressed its deep compassion for the relatives, wife and three children, who have suffered an irreplaceable loss today, in the service of more security. As far as the Stortinget is concerned today, there is hardly a matter that is more important in order to create more security. Besides traffic death, the fires in Norway are one of our really big challenges. I've seagoing compared to the number of people who die of intentional killing, and then the numbers here are much larger. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I am very pleased that the Committee broadly supports the approach adopted by the Government in the fire safety work. The government has a zero vision for those who are killed in a fire. The goal is not to lose a life. Here, increased efforts are needed, more focus is needed, and we see that the measures taken also help to bring down the number. It's useful to do something in this field. The efforts made by the Government to limit the use of missiles with guide sticks are a good example in this way. There has been a decrease, from over 150 injuries, over a day, down to 49 – the lowest damage rates ever since we started recording fireworks hazards. Most of those who die in fire are killed in owner-occupied dwellings. It is therefore natural to focus a substantial part of prevention efforts on reducing the risk and consequences of residential fires. The owner and user are responsible for ensuring the safety of owner-occupied dwellings. And if we take the number of fires in dwellings, the number of deaths in fires in recent years and increased compensation payments, there is still reason to ask whether owners and residents have sufficient knowledge of their own responsibilities and the risk of fire. The Ministry of Justice has therefore asked the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness to review the responsibility of housing owners for fire safety in owner-occupiers and to assess whether current fire protection requirements relating to dwellings and the arrangements we have for information, supervision and control are appropriate. The working group has already had its first meeting and will report by 2010. There is just reason to point out – as the representative Dahl has also encouraged me to do – that, in particular, in relation to older apartment buildings and other construction complexes, there is now a review of the possibilities of the fire service to use the necessary sanctions such as the imposition of remedial measures and deficiencies, the use of power lines and periodic penalty payments, which are very central here. I think it's definitely more to pick up in this area, and I'm addressing this work. Then there's reason to point out that simple things in everyday life, like working smoke detectors, save lives. A lot of people have been into it. There's a problem for every man. With regard to the elderly, who are strongly affected by this picture, which has been discussed by many, it is important to note that by the end of April, the Government will set up a sample to review and assess the fire safety of specific risk groups, such as: disabled people and others. Where it's easy to get inside, into homes with universal solutions, it doesn't have to be that one doesn't get out when it burns and lifts, for example. cannot be used. More have also been involved in cultural memory protection. For time's sake, I don't go into it, but I stress that it's especially important, especially against church buildings. We've had events in the past, especially Våler Church and Hönefoss Church, which show how irreplaceable and important cultural memories are to us. Firer in so-called critical infrastructure is an absolute reason to have increased focus. The Oslo S situation gave clear signals about this. What has been said about the role of the fire service on the part of the rapporteur-in-Office, I take full action. The Fire Service in Norway is doing a great job. But there is still a basis for looking at improvement, especially against the intercommunal fire service, and also the work done now to prevent and also to switch off forest fires more quickly. That's where I refer to the Johnsen committee that we set up, and all the measures that came into the wake of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e369	It will then be opened for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e372	The government used the word zero vision, and that's good. But then I have to complain and say that there is a long way between life and learning for the Council of State. Norway's Fire School is going to train firemen who go to war every day – they're actually going to war every day. In the case of Norwegian defence, we grant billions of dollars for them to practice and be able to take their service. And so is it. But the government doesn't do that when it comes to firefighters. Today, fire schools have asked for 200 million. kr, e.g. in order to obtain height material and to be able to practice accidents such as those in Ålesund and to be able to withstand a hard daily life. A fireman today faces new challenges. We have fire schools in Norway that are the worst in Europe. We allow too little for the crew to have the opportunity to practice what they are really going to do in everyday life – they are not able to meet in practice in everyday life, because they don't get anything for it. That's why my question becomes: does the Council of State take responsibility for the safety of all the teams in Fire-Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e381	We're all going to take responsibility for the firefighters who do a giant job every day around Norway. Part of that responsibility is to ensure that education and training is adequate. But this is not a budget debate, and the Progress Party will also have to check its alternative budgets before going high on these issues. I feel that fire education in Norway has many solid qualities. I have been in Teldsund and looked at this, and I was sailing one of the eager ones in 2006 and 2007 for, among other things. to extend the training offer for part-time firefighters, where the regulation was implemented, and where money was also put on the table. But we must always, at all times – especially now when we impose additional tasks on the fire service – look at the kind of financial framework they have. We will return to that in the annual budgetary proceedings – this is a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e388	For example: The city we're in now, there are many old town farms, and in a good part of them there are also old people. They're organized like AS and similar models. A registration obligation is to be imposed on all apartment buildings, and I would like to expect it to be part of these farms. Many of these don't have fire detectors in rises or rear steps, of which it's a part, which has created some situations. The Council of State will take the initiative to do so, for example: are legislation being developed that imposes smoke detectors in chains in these types of urban gardens, in rear stairs and stairways to prevent fires and deaths?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e395	As can be seen from the Storing Message on page 36, we have had a lot of focus on the older apartment buildings. That's why. I do not want here in Stortinget to go into detail technically on what needs to be done in the legislation, but you need to have a review, as we describe. In particular, the current set-up working group will be able to look at the possibility of the representative Dahl being involved, such as issues of supervision, issues of the penalties to be imposed in the event of a breach of the rules, and the extent to which it can be implemented. What's been my experience, when I've been with the fire service, especially in Oslo, out in the older apartment buildings, is that there's a lot of measures that cost a lot less than what we think. Sprinkling, for example, which most of us think is very advanced -- it's so advanced, but it's not so advanced -- costs no more than putting the parquet in an apartment. So I think here we have to look at all the possibilities to ensure, in particular, the older apartment buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e405	Thank you to the Council of State for a good report, also for the start of the article, reminding us of the risks that many of our servants are facing in their service. In my article I pointed to a budget line that was introduced when we got a new church law, and that was to go to a number of common church measures, including. to this end with the insurance and insurance of churches. This is a budget line that has been reduced over several years. I might break into a budget debate, but I'm a little busy hearing the Council of State's assessment of the state's responsibility for church building, because, although it's the municipality that owns the church buildings, and is responsible for them, it's also of national importance that we keep them in a good way. How does the Council of State assess the possibility of increasing this budget line, and, where appropriate, how does the Council of State view the responsibility of the State for church building?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e414	I believe that the state has a responsibility that has overall authority, but in the case of cultural memories, and not just churches, it's a responsibility I believe the Government is fully assuming, but we need to focus on it in the future. The government's going to its budget conference in a week and a half, so I'm going to bring the tape. I am a keen supporter of the fact that cultural memories as such we must take better care of them than we have historically done. This applies in particular to legislation, but it also applies to appropriations. We see that, among other things, the package of measures that came, and the budgets we have had recently, have at least contributed to a somewhat more liberal budget for cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e421	The Council of State is quite right that this is not a budget debate. But it is nevertheless the case that we are acting in the Norwegian Parliament, the Stortinget, and the Stortinget is probably the overall body in assessing whether we need additional funding for individual areas. In this case, it's about fire safety. If the situation is the same as some representatives who are also firefighters, say – they state that education is not good enough, and the situation is described as not good enough to the committee through consultation processes – then I think it is quite right that the Committee points out that perhaps the revision has to increase the appropriations in order to strengthen education. Then I believe that perhaps the Council of State should take it over instead of in an arrogant way to reject it by saying that we do not have a budget debate. In addition, I can refer to the alternative budget of the Advance Party, even if it is not the subject now: we have a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e430	You're in danger of being accused of being arrogant by any counter-argument. But the purpose of presenting this big message was to get some overall debates on what we do to prevent fires, and that not we as politicians, just go down the pit – as we often do – and discuss who gives the most money. Because here are important questions, such as the representative Octay Dahl, among other things, has raised: What kind of sanctions do we have? What kind of supervision do we have? How are we going to do it when the buildings become more universal, and people get inside, and eventually don't get out? Do we have the ability to prevent, which doesn't necessarily cost money? The ban is thus a good example. This does not mean that we do not listen, so that the recordings on fire education will naturally be included in the review that is now to be made by the educational system. Then, of course, we will include all the signals in the budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e439	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e445	Norway has a good and proud construction tradition with three houses. At the same time, the country is a cold country with a strong need for internal warming. In total, we are unfortunately more exposed to fires here in Norway than in other countries. It just underlines the need for us to have this debate on a fundamental basis here in the Chamber today on such an important matter. Some of the focus of the case has been on the prevention of saving lives, saving and protecting irreplaceable cultural memories and values, and generally saving material values. I will first focus on the need and the positiveness of the local knowledge we find around the municipalities, with the closeness of citizens and authorities and supervision in terms of fire protection. At the same time, the proximity we have in Norway, with many small municipalities, means that in some cases there may be a community between those to carry out inspections in the prevention fire protection and those to report if, unfortunately, a fire has occurred. I would strongly encourage the supervisory authority now added to the county to focus on this in particular to ensure that we are given objective supervision and inspections even in relation to the post-fire work. Several of the representatives in their speeches earlier today have been concerned with what happened on 27 November 2007 here at the Oslo Centre, where a damaged high-voltage cable in Fred. Olsen's gate a little later in the day led to a fire in a high-voltage cable on Oslo S. There were enormous consequences: there was a break in the signalling systems of BaneTele, and the railway station control room had to be evacuated. 80000 train passengers were affected over a full working day and critical infrastructure was generally affected. This is a topic I from this pulpit will underline is important in the social security work that we also have in place in this communication, and we will meet the advice and recommendations that come from the range of government has reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e456	It is nice that there is so much agreement about this big message, and there is reason to thank the case spokesman for well completed work. The cancellation message takes on board a number of proposals for measures to improve fire safety in Norway. We know that fire is causing both society and individuals huge costs and pressures every year. Societal economics leads to high costs of fires in the form of health costs and damage payments. Insurance payments after a fire in 2008 amounted to DKK 4.7 billion according to the Main Financial Activities Organisation. Norway is high on an international scale when it comes to victims of fire, and one might ask, why is it so? In 2008, 83 people died in a fire in Norway, which was the highest number since 1979. In 2009, the number went down, which the case spokesperson was in, but 2010 has not started well. Ten people died in fire in January, while the average for January in the last five years has been six deaths. So only in the last few days have people killed in fire, as the case-speaker says. Older people are particularly vulnerable when it comes to fire deaths. Of the ten who died in a fire in January 2010, nine were over 70 years old. I am pleased that the Government is now putting down a selection to review and assess the fire safety of risk groups such as the elderly and disabled, as living in ordinary dwellings and in care facilities. Sample checks have shown that new buildings often lack high levels of fire safety. This may indicate that your own checks after today's Building Business Act may not work well enough. In the Committee's configuration, we have now asked for the establishment of a full-value control for all types of construction and a better interaction between the builder on one side and the building manager and the fire service on the other. I'm referring to what's in the main message, which was also right-wing, and it's nice that local fire protection agencies now have an obligation to register older apartment buildings where the fire risk is high, as special fire objects. It can be, for example, are older murals in the largest cities or large old-age dwellings in three. So I could've also thought of talking a little bit about our cultural buildings, the churches, but I can see that time didn't go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e475	That's absolutely right, because now we're going to go on to the next speaker list, Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e478	It is an important big message that is being debated here today. Unfortunately, Branner takes many lives and causes great damage to buildings and people – and causes great losses to society. What the Minister of Justice said that fire and fire prevention may be the most important thing for people's sense of safety, in line with road safety, also underlines the importance of this issue that is now being debated. Therefore, the focus on preparedness is also important. I am recording the proposal to lay down Vagle clay in Sandnes in connection with the wish to co-locate the training activities at Starum. Right-wing think this is a bad idea, and that is why, together with the Progress Party, we have put forward proposals asking the Government to maintain Vagle clay. We see this proposal as a weakening of social security and a loss of competence. By coordinating training activities at Starum, a principle of subsidiarity is left, and we see that having regional centres with this type of competence and this type of offer is important in terms of preparedness and competence. So we see this as a weakening of social security. This view is also supported by a clear majority of the hearing bodies, with significant competences in civil protection, security and preparedness of society. If it was now that coordination at Starum was sensible from both a competence point of view and an economic point of view, it is appropriate to ask why this decision would not be subject to an impact assessment, as the Right has pointed out and called for. An impact assessment could have provided a greater level of security both for real savings and for not losing skills and weakening social security. It would be easier to accept from the relevant bodies and parties if there was a proper impact assessment. The centre of Vagle Camp is an important part of the security of society in the South of the West, and there are a large number of people in crisis management – from individual action at a point of damage to management in the event of major incidents. Furthermore, the centre is used by emergency kits for the conduct of courses and exercises. In particular, several fire services have used this center as the only place to practice it in a realistic environment. The proposal for closure is in stark contrast to what is otherwise stated in the Communication in relation to enhanced competence and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e489	After nearly 20 years of experience as a professional fireman, I feel that a reply from the Minister in a way shows that there is a long way between life and learning. With all due respect, the Council of State should perhaps go in as a new Minister of State. When you go in and look at the training of firefighters in Norway, a new training for voluntary firefighters was introduced, as the minister said. It does not help to introduce anything when you do not follow up with money in the budget at the next moment. When everything stops and education is put on ice, as it is done in several municipalities, and the fire school does not have the money to educate people, like, among other things. Oslo Municipality, you have to take on the costs that the fire school itself has to train personnel, because the council and the government won't take over the problems. We can also look at step 2, i.e., call guides, where only a third of those who need it get a course. This makes more fire services today have trouble moving out, because you don't have enough professional crew, and there are municipalities at risk, among other things. getting daily tickets from DSB for not having introduced it. But again, this is because the government has failed there too. Then you say that security is important to the crews. But at least the firefighters in Norway don't feel that the minister is taking security seriously. There is currently no possibility to practice in high houses — a situation you encounter daily — because Norway’s fire school is not given money to do so. You don't have the opportunity to practice disasters, like the one in Ålesund, because you haven't given money to that task. Those who come into the fire department today practice with materials such as some fire services, such as in Oslo and in Bergen, sent out of school 6-7 years ago. That is, you're years behind on education. You spend two-thirds less on education than you do in the other Nordic countries. So Norway is almost a banana republic in terms of education. I think we should take on board that we send Norwegian firefighters into war every day without giving them the opportunity to deal with everyday life. It's done in the defense. That's where they get the chance to practice what they're going to do, in the exercise field, and we're going to spend billions. But we don't have the money to do this on the fire. It shows a total failure of the Minister of State. Then we're excited to hear what he says on December 31, 2011, when he hasn't reached through with this. Is he going to talk to you that it might happen in 2030? It's going to be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e504	If that can help with any facts, I'll try to help with that. The representative, Tjældal, claims that, after introducing training for part-time firefighters, there has been no follow-up to talk alone. Then I have to ask him to go back to what was done by the government in 2006-2007. One of the reasons why the regulation on training for part-time firefighters could not be put into operation, either during the government period when the Progress Party had budgetary opportunities, or earlier – it has been lying for many years – was not to follow up with money. So it was the Ministry of Justice and the government of Stoltenberg that let – I think it was – 10 million. kr on the table for that regulation to be presented and implemented. You can come here in the Storting with all kinds of characteristics of us, of talking and of the one with the other, but I assume that people then have at least gone into the questions you from this pulpit quite so abruptly mention. In the case of part-time firefighter training, concrete funding was provided. So I would also say that many of the areas we are discussing today require more effort. I have not mentioned e.g. what is now taking place in connection with the fire-fighting rescue operation at sea. I find it strange that in this context you have not noticed that around the whole country you have now put in place the so-called RITS units, by means. The type of description of the fire training we received in the previous article, I don't think it would help anyone. It's a kind of black paint that I don't feel we meet when we're out, neither when we meet firefighters, nor when we see the good job being done by those who are responsible for the fire education. So I'm not saying they're not challenges here as well. We're going to meet them, and especially now when you're going to have a review of the entire education concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e515	I actually asked for the floor because I thought I was going to round the debate, because I was last on the list for a while. But now I see that more people have drawn themselves. This big message has reaped a lot of praise. What's your focus on? Of course, these are the main lines of the communication, both from the hearing bodies and now from the debate. Otherwise, it is the section on the decommissioning of Vagle clay that has created the greatest contradictions during the processing of this message. There it is worth noting that the professional authority, DSB, has said that they want to gather the education in the civil defence in a competence center at Starum. It's nothing new. It is proposed in the 2007 Civil Defense Study and it is proposed in St.meld. No 22 for 2007-2008. There was also a debate on that in the first round, in connection with this report on fire. The majority of the hearing bodies are opposed to closure, that is to say. Yes, and I might need to make a little explanation. After all, it was a new and unprincipled rapporteur, who left a small number in the consultation round – not only national authorities, but also individual municipalities. Then there were no municipalities from Hedmark or Uppland, but there were actually some from Sandnes, and they're in the calculation of how many were at the hearing. So the number is kind of juggling. It wouldn't have been like that if it had been KS that had represented the municipalities. Vagle clay is therefore not lost for emergency work. In this big message, we are now making it possible for the region to take responsibility for further preparedness and security work in that region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e526	I think it's a little sweet to sit and hear that the Minister of State will try to explain himself away from not having control of his own territory. When you say you've given the money, but you haven't done anything, maybe the minister has to go by himself and say, "Yes, you're giving money, but when the money from DSB is going to go to fire schools, to the education of the crew, it's not money." This means that the municipalities around the courses must cancel, which means that they are not able to do what they are going to do. You also have to do priorities here, because you don't have framework transfers. And if the minister hasn't gotten it along, I actually recommend the minister maybe to go a little earlier to work and a little later home to take care of the safety of firemen, and not just talk it away. I'm, I'm sorry, President, frustrated to hear you take that job so easily. He also says that he meets firefighters outside. I've been a fireman for 20 years, I've met firemen every day, I've been in fire schools all over the place and met them, and I know what they're talking about. I know what the firemen are talking about all around. I don't recognize myself. So maybe it's time you started to take a little bit of a look at the seriousness of the matter, and not just treat it as – I almost don't have a word for it. But I'm going to go to something else: fire investigation. That's important, and that's what the Progress Party has been working for for for many years. 15 years ago, I was in a fire school at a course with Kripos, who wanted firemen involved in the investigation, but they had problems with the police management, who thought this was a police job. You didn't want the same systems you have in America or England – it was supposed to be the police's job. Kripos himself has said that you need to have a long, long competence to understand it, and they would have competence there. They had two pilot projects, and they went in and checked it out and took firefighters into the investigation. It was pretty good results, it was a lot more clarification, and it was also stated in the report, which was sent to Killangreen, that the police recommend that they continue to do so. But what the Killenger is doing is saying exactly the opposite. She'll wind it up. That is why I am very pleased that the Killegger is being tested in this message. My question to the Council of State is then: Where has the police themselves wanted to stop? Has it stopped political, or has it stopped at Killangereen? It could have been nice to know. Then to the countyman. When you go into the county to have authority over the fire department, what kind of competence does the county have on it? And my next question is, have you ever thought that if you give more to the floor, it's going to be going with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e537	The President must be allowed to say that we have to deal with the proper names of the state councils that at all times have matters to deal with in Stortinget. It must be possible to assume that the Council of State involved in this matter is the Minister of Justice. It is permissible for a government council to talk a lot, but the name of the minister is thus Minister of Justice, and the president expects the representatives of the Stortinge to be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e540	First, I must be allowed to clarify to the rapporteur in the matter, who himself said that he was inexperienced, that he has done a very good job, and even though he went a little beyond normal when it came to calling for a hearing, I think it was actually necessary in retrospect. For it is quite right that the Council of State has also clarified that in this message it is the long lines to be drawn up, the focus to be given, and the grips and structures to be provided, and, if necessary, the need to change, in order to achieve the objective that all in this room want, an up-to-date and safe level of preparedness and fire safety. That's what we're all looking for. But then there's someone who's a little more committed than others, someone who drives and turns off more fires than others do, and then I think it's important that we listen to it as well. It is clear that when, for a long time, the focus has been on fire safety, fire protection, education, training problems and equipment problems, and perhaps in everyday life as a fireman or in other ways within this area, it does not feel that it is being followed up by the political environment, it is also important, even if it is a message, that the position of the Storting specifies the importance of the resources when good plans are adopted. I think that's what might create some disagreement and some temperature in the debate. That is why the Progress Party has made a proposal, which has been distributed in the Chamber, that we may already be able to signal in the revision that we need to provide increased resources to achieve as quickly as possible the goal that we all agree to achieve. If that's right what was presented to the committee during the hearing, where equipment that had expired was transported into the hearing room, if that's the reality, if you have equipment that you can't actually use, equipment that actually makes the situation even worse for these fire crews, I think it's important to also clarify now that we need to get appropriations in place, so that this equipment can be replaced as soon as possible. I would like to draw it up in connection with the proposal before us. So it's possible that you can solve this in a different way. But the situation and history have shown that it is very difficult to get the quality of equipment and training. There are some parties here today that demand much more: that we commit ourselves more to also providing resources to achieve that goal. There are other things we disagree on as well. For my part, I have to say that I am very sceptical about moving supervision to the county. It's going to be interesting to follow it. Because I don't think there is any competence in the county to supervise this type of business at all. We have a lack of competence within the existing supervisory bodies today, so this should be spread to the county in addition. There I am very sceptical, and it is also clear that the setting. That's what we're going to do with the arctic eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e551	Let me begin by commending the rapporteur, who led the committee's work in this matter in a nice and inclusive way, and delivers a very good case to the Stortinget. So it's like someone always wants to send a message home, and that's what we heard here instead. The representative, Treldal, would send a message to his colleagues in the fire and rescue department. I have full respect for that. But in the eagerness to send this message, one skips the facts of the matter. I would like to quote the main character of the Progress Party in this debate, Morten Ørsal Johansen, who said in his main post: «Norway has a good fire service». Before going as high on the track as the Treldal did, it is therefore important to talk to his colleagues and agree on the description of reality. The government councils and more from the government parties have come to the conclusion that we take the competence and equipment seriously, and that is what this message is also about: to draw the long lines, see where the shoe prints, see where we need, and how to strengthen the fire service further. Then there was one more thing that I want to say a few words about. It's Vagle clay. We see that there is a disagreement, and we see that there is a strong commitment to the local community in the municipalities concerned. And it was just supposed to be missing. It's not the first time we see this kind of commitment. We appreciate that. SV's own people in the relevant municipalities would very much like to maintain Vagle clay, but after an overall assessment we are pretty sure that the conclusion that the Storting draws today is the right conclusion. It will strengthen the fire service and the floor and fire protection in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e563	The representative, Mr Träldal, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e566	I'm not sending a message home to firefighters. I'm sending a message to the Norwegian people. I am sending a message to the relatives who have lost their loved ones in traffic accidents, in fires and in other accidents. I am sending a message to all of them, including those of rescue teams, in the country of Norway who are sitting at home and hoping to get their homes. I'll send them a message back home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e571	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e587	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e603	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e612	Today, the Stortinge has a proposal for a representative from the local government representatives Octay Dahl, Werp, Hofstad Helleland and Aspaker to amend the law immediately in order to increase the level of penalties in cases of violence, assault and rape. It is a unanimous committee that underlines the importance of increasing the level of penalties for these acts and shares the description by the proposers of the fact that it has over time developed a level of penalties for the most restrictive acts that are too low in relation to other criminal offences. It is also agreed that the level of penalties for various offences should as far as possible reflect the seriousness of a crime that society considers to be. In the context of the new Penal Code in 2005, a unanimous Judicial Committee had the following comment in the Netherlands. O. No 73 for 2008-2009: ‘The Committee emphasises that the level of penalties should be increased in relation, inter alia, to: serious violence, killings, rapes, sexual assaults, sexual mutilation and violence in close relations. The Committee refers to the clear signals given in the form of increased penalties, the lifting of the minimum penalty and, in particular, the passing on of the proposition through specific, selected legal decisions. The Committee agrees with this approach of sending signals to the Court of Justice in order to raise the level of penalties. The Committee stresses that higher levels of penalties should apply immediately.’.» The cause of the case was the Soria Moria statement, where SV and the other government partners wrote that the government will work to raise the level of punishment for rape, murder, gross violence and moral crimes. The Committee therefore stated in its observations that higher levels of penalties should apply immediately. However, such an approach has been disagreed with by the Supreme Court. In two cases where the ruling was given on 13 November 2009 in the Grand Chamber, the Supreme Court discussed the importance of the opinion in the preparatory work of the Penal Code 2005 on higher levels of penalties in cases under the 1902 Act. The Supreme Court states that when the new Penal Code enters into force in 2005, the Supreme Court is obliged to increase the level of penalties in line with the Storting’s opinions. However, the Supreme Court considered that, in cases between the adoption of the new criminal law in 2009 and the entry into force of this law, they will gradually step up the level of penalties. This is a situation the whole of Stortinget and the Ministry of Justice must take seriously. Of course, the size of the population was serious when it was stated that the level of punishment should be increased in relation to gross violence, killings, rapes, sexual assaults, sexual mutilation and violence in close relations – and that it should happen immediately. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Justice has already started work on changes in the law to ensure that one achieves the desired penalties more quickly than the court provides, and I expect that the proposition will be presented to the Storting in a short time. In the light of this, the Committee recommends that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e639	The work on new criminal law has been a long way off, and there is good reason to praise all those who have worked for the new penal code – whether it be the former judicial committee, ministers or departments. The penal code of 1902 was designed by and for men, and there is no doubt that, as the rapporteur has also pointed out, the level of penalties for violent and sexual offences is not consistent with the general legal system. In the review of the Ministry of Justice in connection with the new penal code, judicial decisions show that, despite the increased level of penalties, the level of penalties for violent and sexual offences was lower than that of the criminal framework. Therefore, important changes were made in the spring of 2009 to strengthen the protection of children from abuse and to increase the level of penalties for sexual offences. When the matter of increased penalties was dealt with in Stortinget, she said, among other things. rapporteur-in-chief Anne Marit Bjørnfacen, as follows: ‘We want the significant criminal atrocities we impose in relation to the perpetrators of serious crime to take effect immediately. This must be noted by the police, prosecutors and courts.» These were clear and strong signals from the legislator, but when the Supreme Court passed judgment in two United States cases on sexual and violent offences last year, the result was somewhat different. However, it is important to note that the judgments give good support to the work of raising the level of penalties in such cases, and the Supreme Court states that, after the new penal code is in force, the courts are obliged to change the level of penalties. It's positive. At the same time, however, the Supreme Court states that until the entry into force of the new penal code, there will be a gradual increase in the level of penalties in an interim period. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee is now impatient and wishes to see more criminal intensifications faster than those provided by the courts. And it's a pleasure that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice share that view and have ambitions to present a proposition that the Stortinge can deal with before the summer. Because it is by changing the penal code of 1902 that we ensure that the wanted penal snipers become a reality faster than the courts provide. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to have more stringent legal protection for more vulnerable groups, and I am particularly pleased that we ensure that women and children are more protected under the new penal code. But I want to stress that punishment alone does not solve those challenges. Rape and sexual assault are a serious social problem. It creates fear, and for those affected, it has great consequences. Earlier this year I was visiting a support center for incest and sexual assault on Gjøvik, and it was a strong experience. They told us how mental problems control a lot of life: fear, depression and concentration problems are just some of the late effects of many victims. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the fact that the victims of abuse also receive the help and support they need and require. At the same time, it is also important that we do not forget the fact that many rape cases are never reported, and too many cases are passed on to the police. That is why it has been important for the red-green government to strengthen the competence of the police, and for the reporter to be taken seriously. That is why it is a good step in the right direction when family violence coordinators are in place in all police districts and in their own teams to work with sexual abuse in the big cities, because it is through a comprehensive policy – including what we do without raising the level of punishment – we can be involved in fighting that type of crime and helping the victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e666	When the Storting has extensive legal work for treatment, as we used to have with the new Penal Code, there is a great expectation in society in the debate that is going on around that work, that there will be rapid effects of the work that the Storting is doing, and especially in this type of case, which concerns serious crime, and where the level of penalties has not been in line with the general sense of law outside of people most. There has been too low a penalty level for this type of serious crime, which the Storting has captured by adopting tightening up in the new law. After the Supreme Court judge, there was a significant debate, and I think that there is no reason to criticise the Supreme Court in this matter. First, the Storting and the Government have to do their job by bringing laws into force, before you can expect the courts to be fully followed up. Now, as I understand, there is a reasonable consensus in the Committee and in the Storting that we should have changes to the penal code of 1902, so that we can increase the level of penalties on these cases before the final entry into force of the Penal Code of 2005. The Progress Party expects the State Council of Storberget now to come to Stortinget with a matter of this reasonably quick, and I could expect the Council of State here from Stortinget's pulpit to confirm to Stortinget that he will come quickly, and at least in good time before the summer, with such a proposal. The ideal thing here would be that the Council of State came to Stortinget with the matter so quickly that Stortinget had made the necessary legislative changes before Stortinget takes a summer vacation. If this is not the case, it will take much of the year before we have the law changes in place, as the Stortinget will not meet again until October. There are two proposals from the Left today in the seats of the representatives here in the Chamber, and I just want to signal that the Progress Party will support these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e677	I think the council stands up in the morning and goes to bed late, so I expect the matter to come before summer. It is also announced in April, as far as I have got with me. I want to commend the Council of State and the majority to come to the Right and the opposition, as this is a field in which we have been interpolitically united. I also want to commend the Council of State for the efforts in the public space that he personally has made in focusing on assaulting children, as a battle cause for himself and the Government. This is a prerequisite for the courts to develop the case law that we all want, where there is greater consistency between the penalties imposed for this type of crime than for other types of crime. However, while criminal justice can be said to be more just, punishment by society against an offender is not necessarily what makes a person more vulnerable. All too often the debates stop there, and the media screen stops. The trauma and shame of the victim are not eliminated by a spell of the perpetrator being taken and punished, and the prejudices of most people and of others in the auxiliaries are not gone either. It has sometimes been a little strange to witness how many people are horribly provoked and angry when a rape occurs, but then the commitment is limited to demanding more severe punishments, while at the same time the same people turn away from the history of the exposed. There might be a lot of reasons for this, for example. that it feels too private and too bad to take over. But in the auxiliary unit, many girls and boys still meet with prejudices if they don't take the victim's role that you expect them to take. A seemingly strong and tough girl sometimes has more difficulty demanding her rights than the girl who is in the foster position and crying, as some expect a «true» victim to behave. Unfortunately, we have come no further than that girls with short skirts, and who may not even be virgins, are expected to thank themselves in some way if they are subjected to an assault. That's probably why there's going to be so much overfocus on assault violence, which is 20 pst. by the rapists, while 80 pst. which takes place through acquaintances or families, does not receive the same attention or is also penalised more easily. Unfortunately, an assault is considered to be an ‘appropriate’ rape, while in some other situations there is a tendency to relax responsibility on the exposed person, in the form of over-emphasis on physical violence, rather than on the overall picture. You just don't have to use that much power against a child to make it do what an adult wants, it keeps manipulating. Girls and boys in a vulnerable life phase can also be manipulated quite easily. I hope that the Council of State and the majority, together with the opposition, will agree to support another Document No. Eight proposals now under consideration in the Committee, namely the proposal to establish its own cross-border centre in England, in order to better coordinate the work against abuses against children and young people. There is a need for empowerment, knowledge, better attitudes and that each individual victim or child who has been subjected to abuse is treated as an individual with a greater degree of understanding that everyone has their own history, reacts differently and perhaps stabs at what some would think was a so-called natural reaction to what they were exposed to. Getting ahead with lifting the penalties is good, but I want to say once again that the Right is pleased that the Council of State and the majority support our proposal and present the matter in the pact with it in ours. I also hope that he can confirm that he will help us establish a centre à la CEOP in parallel. Finally, I would like to ask a specific question that lies in the street for this, which is about child abuse, incest and rape, and it is a concrete question relating to measures that are not about punishment, but about assistance to vulnerable people, to whom there are great hopes, namely the so-called Landwide Telephone for Incest and sexual abuse, which was opened in 2006, and which is operated by the Incest Centre in Westfold. I have come to understand that there are some concerns about the operation of this, statistics, availability and whether it can now be said to be really national tyres, as well as the quality assurance of this so-called nationwide phone. On the Right, it was necessary to say some of these things, because I think in the public debate there is a tendency to focus on posters and that kind of thing and not as much on the victims and what they experience after the cameras are switched off, and they actually don't get the help they need. I think it is important to punish more stringently, in the pact with other types of serious crime. I think it's all the more important to focus on the victim, because it's the victim who has the worst, not the society that's looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e703	The Christian People's Party has long worked to increase the level of punishment in matters of violence, violence and electoral law and to support the criminal atrocities adopted in connection with the treatment of new criminal law. Yes, we do want to go a little bit further in some cases. Now I would like to commend the proposers behind the proposal and thank you for the good report that was kept right before me. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the Government has also announced that a work has been started to increase the level of punishment for which there is agreement in the Storting, is being carried out as quickly as possible. "As fast as possible" is probably to take a little hard time, because I really thought that the government could have come longer today than one has done. There may also be questions as to whether the Government should make a greater contribution to the Supreme Court's conclusion and get started earlier on an alternative course. In any case, it is an advantage that the view of the Storting in this matter will have its clear expression in the law, even in the period leading up to the entry into force of the new penal code. It will create a regulatoryly tidy situation. As the Supreme Court stated in the cited judgments, it is important, not least in the field of criminal law. I will commend the Council of State for his power of action, and that he has seen this going on as quickly as he has done, so that we can get a case as quickly as possible. I would also like to stress the importance of ensuring a good enough ICT system, so that this does not delay the time when the penal code applies. Therefore, the Christian People's Party expects that if it turns out that this can be a problem, the Stortinget will be informed about it, so that any action can be taken. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the announcement of the proposition, so that the Storting's wish for an increased level of punishment in these important matters is met as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e720	This is a matter on which there is broad agreement, and the wish of Parliament to do something about the penal code, I think also reflects people's perception in this particular area. The reason why I take the floor is that we have tabled two proposals on the matter. There are two proposals that I hope we can get a broad majority for, because I think it's a broad desire to do something in those two areas. The first proposal is at the level of punishment for violence against children. This proposal is first and foremost the coin of violence, since the infringement part is well taken care of. Governments have answered a question from me that violence against children should be punishable. That, I think, coincides with Parliament's view and the public perception. It's about kids not being able to defend themselves, not always knowing what's right and what's wrong, and they can't be seen as equivalent when they're subjected to violence. In a little more unsystematic reviews that we have seen in the media lately, it turns out that violence is not punishable against children. It is therefore important that this be part of the legal process, and the legal process that has been in Stortinget does not reflect that desire. So the reason why the Left has promoted this proposal is that we want Parliament to make it clear at such a hearing that violence against children must be judged more harshly, and that it must be punishable in relation to violence against adults, because adults know what is right and what is wrong can defend themselves, can escape, and because they are seen as more equal parties than when it comes to child abuse. That is why we want this decision to follow the treatment in the department, and I had hoped that it could get broad support here today. I think that would have been good for Parliament's confidence. The second proposal is probably based on a little more disappointment from the Left. Now it's almost two years since the Rape Committee presented its position. It is still well in a drawer in the Ministry of Justice, so we want to take this opportunity to remind the Minister of Justice that the Rape Committee has put forward a number of proposals that they believe would have improved the follow-up to rape victims and would have led us to perhaps reducing the number of rapes. That is why we would like to recall once again that this proposal should come out of the drawer, and that should be included in the work plans of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e733	The President then assumes that Trine Skeie Grande is addressing the two proposals she has now mentioned. – The representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e736	Let me first say that I'm very pleased, once again, that the Storting is so assembled on the issue of violence and abuse against children. One of the most important measures we can take politically is that we are so clear and that we are doing it together. There's obviously a lot to pick up here. When we look at the instruments for which a total accumulation has given its support in terms of violence and abuse against children, we see that they work. Now that we have established children's homes around the country, we see that hundreds of children are getting help in those children's homes. When we expand the aid lawyer system, we see that many more people get help. When we at the same time build rape receptions, when action is taken in the police, whether it be family violence coordinators or special teams, we see that the number of cases is increasing. This does not necessarily mean that there has been more of it, but that the measures chosen by an overall increase on the initiative of the Government benefit in this field. So I just want to say that there's reason to enjoy some developments in this particular field. I can confirm that the Government is working on a proposition on changes in the penal code of 1902, with the aim of tightening up the penalties for killing, other serious violence and sexual offences. There is reason to point out that the level is rising. It's raised above any doubt. As far as rape is concerned, over the last few years we have in fact had a doubling of the level of punishment, but it has to go on. Intensification of penalties is proposed in the form of higher penalties, stricter minimum penalties and clear recommendations for strengthening the level of normal penalties for the offences in question. Our objective – in response to Mr Asmyhr’s request – is to promote the proposition before Easter, so that the Storting will be able to deal with the bill before the summer. So I would like to add some comments to the first proposal of the Left. It is also important to be clear from this pulpit that it is actually such that violence against children is punishable, so that the courts out there perceive that this is the case. There is no need to change the penal code in order to judge by such a understanding of the law. The law is also worded like this. That is why I would strongly urge the Left to put forward its proposal for a transmission proposal. For the signals from here – and from the Regeringen – that when you go into the penal code, among other things. Section 232 of the penal code, which specifically applies to aggravating conditions, will be punishable by criminal law and violence against children under that provision – clearly. It is also the case that sexual offences against children have their own rules, which have their own criminal frameworks and preprocessors, which clearly state that there should be criminal tightening here. So it's also taken up some other issues, which I'm just going to try to touch briefly. With regard to the question of the incest phone in Vestfold, which the representative Octay Dahl involved, I must be allowed to go back to the department and hear what the situation is about this. There is reason to remember that in the case of the phone that is now opened against child abuse, we need to make it widely known, along with the offer that is in the children's houses around. So finally, as regards the follow-up to the rape committee's position: it's not put in a drawer in the ministry. We believe that the rape committee is just making so many good suggestions that here we should keep up with what the rape committee says. That's why the government thinks it's important that we get rape receptions in every state that can help – not only help the victim, but also provide evidence: take care of clothes, take samples, photographs, etc. That was also the background to the fact that Regeninga felt it was important that rape victims had good help from aid lawyers. The proposal – also outlined in the rape committee’s position – about a separate police unit has been the reason why, within Kripos, we have chosen to create a unit up there to assist the police districts in complex rape cases. The attitude of the rape committee also contributed to the fact that we believe it is absolutely crucial now – especially with regard to the rape attacks – that good functioning of the DNA registry is achieved, so that the offender is given the opportunity to be caught. We've seen both nationally and internationally that they've managed to get access to the perpetrator in serious rape cases just on the basis of DNA. So the rape committee's attitude is not put in a drawer at all – we are actively working on it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e751	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e755	I have a question of an action to ensure more convictions, better investigation and treatment of vulnerable children, namely children's homes, which we all agree on. One goal is to bring more cases before the judiciary. The Judicial Committee is informed by both the courts, the judicial administration and various police districts that distances – not least in districts with few employees – are problematic in relation to their use of resources, it is overburdening budgets, and they sometimes refuse to use children’s homes. And there is also a great burden in relation to the fact that children should preferably be removed without the parents knowing about it, and sent there. So it takes two days to send them there. You can't do that with a child like that. in primary school, to be picked up in kindergarten, etc. So it's problematic relative to geographic distances. It binds up resources. Several of them also call for the possibility of using vide transmission in the hearings, hearings, to remedy some of these. Can the Council of State say anything about how he assesses the development of children's homes with a view to making it truly nationwide, so that all children can have an opportunity to use these children's homes, and not just in the health areas they are now in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e760	It is not so often I can say that the promises made in the Soria Moria declaration are broken in a positive sense. But I can do that when it comes to babysitting, because it says in the Soria Moria statement that we should consider establishing one children's home. We see that it was such an important job that we have also established children’s homes in Tromsø, Trondheim, Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand and Oslo. So we feel like we've really taken hold of the number of children's homes. We must admit that we cannot have children’s homes in every municipality. It is competence-intensive and resource-demanding. But we have said in the budget that this year we want to establish children's homes in Stavanger, and the next thing that's going on – and I've replied in Stortinget that it comes during this period, until 2013 – is Ålesund. This will significantly improve the situation, where there is a long journey distance. Then I also believe that we need to look at the possibility of – as you have seen, among other things. in Tromsø — to a greater extent using technological equipment, video, so that actors and others do not travel far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e765	Of course, there was no criticism that the government established several children’s houses – that’s also what the Stortinget asked to be done. Here's a hard work across party boundaries, so we can all be fellow fathers and sisters and everything in relation to these children's houses. The question was not just about the number, whether there will be one or two more, but about the budgetary challenges of the police and judicial budgets, so that we have problems in using the children's houses without tying up so much crew resources. That's what I asked questions about and would like to have another comment. I felt that the Council of State now said that children's home is fine, and we need more. But what the specific question is about is, among other things. a letter sent by the Court of Justice in June 2009, which addresses some of these matters, and it has not improved, rather worse, in the courts. There is no criticism of the Government, but I expect the Government to be aware of it, and therefore I want to know what concrete action is taken to remedy some of this – for example. by saying clearly that you want to use video equipment to make it easier, and not just that you're aiming at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e775	If the representative Oktay Dahl had been out looking at the children's houses, and especially that in Tromsø, he would have experienced that you were just using video equipment. I believe that it is a major challenge for large parts of the public sector to be able to benefit from that kind of technology. We've opened it up in the courts, in criminal custody. It was just to be missing if we could not also use it in relation to the children's houses. But there is a limit, because when it comes to dealing with children, direct contact will be crucial. But I have to say that it's not always that I have the same sense of the arguments from, for example. some judges, who have to go for ten minutes to come to the children's home. I think that when you spend so much money in children's homes, the agencies will also see that in many cases you are relieved, that it also seems deterrent that people who actually have the skills to question children are doing these, and that they are no longer doing so, for example. to the police or courts. You get better results, and you get relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e782	We are all pleased that the Stortinget stands together in this matter and that the Council of State shows the power to act in order to see in action the Stortinget's intention of more severe punishments faster. But we also know that stricter penalties are not enough alone. There has been a good way out of the state council and a measure on alcohol and alcohol. One knows that in the case of selection and abuse, intoxication is very often involved. The council has announced that he would like to come up with restrictions on the timing of donations. My simple question to the Council of State is: When does the Council of State expect this to come to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e789	Let me first say that this is in another department, it is the Ministry of Health and Welfare that has proposals for tightening up alcohol legislation. It is the Minister of Health who gets an answer when she comes up with that matter, I do not have a full overview of this. But the hearing, as far as I know, has ended, and it is very uplifting what is now happening in Norwegian municipalities. The municipalities that have already tightened up see that the police are being saved for considerable resources at night. When one reports a significant drop in violent crime after choosing to close earlier, it is not only a big advantage for the Norwegian police, but we can also count the number of injured victims, whether it be serious assaults or acute violence at night. It's no secret that we from the Department of Justice are doing what we can to keep up that development. If you from the central team choose to set the ceiling at 0 p.m. 02.00, we have clearly stated that there will be an incredible gain in creating more security and shifting police resources, so that the resources we spent at night, among other things. can be used against violence against children both during the day and at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e796	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e814	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e823	This is a matter where, like the previous case today, a broad majority of the Stortinget shows that when we engage and work together, we are able to achieve good results in interaction with the Government. This issue has not been addressed until the previous period by the Health and Welfare Committee, in line with the 2009 State Budget, then by the Justice Committee in the previous period, in the context of a separate proposal for a representative that was promoted, and today we are discussing a new proposal for a representative on the matter. It is a common intention, a common position on the Storting and the Government that we want to ensure the best possible security for the discovery and investigation of the causes of sudden and unexpected child deaths and that experience is used to prevent such events better. The current status is that a mandatory offer is to be made to expert teams of health professionals, forensic experts, etc. shall carry out site-of-death studies and do so within 48 hours of sudden unexpected infant death. There shall also be autopsy in all cases of such deaths. What the 2001–04 Children's cause of death project, which offered voluntary site-of-death studies, showed, was that, in these tragic cases, without exception, those affected by death are in favour of having site-of-death studies, and that they also have very positive experience of it, that it creates more security, tranquillity, security for what has happened, and improves the ability of those affected by these tragedies to cope with grief. So we have the question: what if you were to experience that someone said no to receive these expert teams? The question is what the Committee has now tried to address through its own consultation and through a thorough examination of the aspects of the proposal for a representative. With regard to the possibility of saying that the on-site examination of the experts should be mandatory, we have been informed by the Legal Service through the consultation that we have a problem with respect to the Basic Law § 102 on house insemination and a problem with respect to the European Convention on Human Rights. The Committee has been concerned that we should be thoroughly involved in all cases in the best possible way and has tried to develop a solution that can be complete. What we have built on is that all cases of acute and unexpected child deaths should be reported to the police immediately, and that any cases where the expert team does not have access to the place of death should also be reported to the police immediately. An overall increase promotes a proposal to amend the Criminal Procedures Act to give the police an unconditional obligation to investigate independently of suspicion, i.e. regardless of suspicion. What we know from the experience of other deaths and investigations around them, and any investigation carried out by the police, is that when the police, in the course of their investigations and investigations, also want to investigate the crime scene, the place of death – that is, the homes – they have no experience of anyone saying no to this. Therefore, there is reason to believe that, by amending the Criminal Procedures Act, and by making changes to prosecution instructions, drawing up guidelines for the implementation of the investigation obligation, we will in practice be able to achieve the same level of certainty that the police will immediately be able to know where the expert team will not get into the home and will be able to immediately assess how best to conduct investigations, including the investigation of the place of death. The Committee has come together to find a solution to this which I believe is well on the way to fulfilling the intention of the Storting. We have also argued that the limits should not be three years in implementing these measures. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e847	As the rapporteur also said, this is a matter on which there has been a great deal of agreement in the committee, and that is good. It's a serious matter, and it's a matter that the committee has taken the most seriously. When the consensus is as large as it is, we have to view it as very positive. Infant death is a tragic event in itself, and a great stress for relatives. Losing a kid is, as I said, a feeling in itself, but the feeling can get bigger by being suspected of a criminal act or a criminal relationship. Getting this suspicion at the top of losing a kid will, of course, be serious for most people, and one should be reasonably strong to avoid having a mental break in that regard. Often, this suspicion persists for a long time, at least if, for some reason, one refuses to have a voluntary detention study. This suspicion may, of course, be justified or unjustified. What is important is to obtain a confirmation or a confirmation — a confirmation to acquit, and a confirmation to detect criminal offences or to prevent recurrence. An important topic in this context has been the Constitution and how the Constitution sets limits. It would be a pity if the Constitution were to restrict the possibility of clarifying criminal offences. Now it is said that there is a great deal of respect for those who once passed the Norwegian Constitution, they were forward-looking and wise men. With regard to the European Convention on Human Rights, which we also need some clarifications about, I don't know if the people who brought it were just as wise, but we'll see that. When an adult dies, this is automatically investigated, but when children die, unfortunately there is no automatic in it. There's once again evidence that those who are weak from before have less legal certainty than adults have. In other countries, in the case of infant deaths, it is automatic, and if we really want this in Norway, we need to find out how it works in other countries, how it is organised in other countries, especially in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights. It is fine that an overall political environment wants to provide better protection for the child and to introduce mandatory site-of-death studies. Wishes are good, will to do it is better. Your will there, gets one actually done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e860	We're getting our important move on today. Introducing the obligation to investigate is positive, and the obligation to notify the police about unnatural deaths in a regulation on doctors is also good. This means that all findings that can help clarify the cause of death are to be handed over to the police. Right supports it, and is included in part of the unanimous remarks, but makes note that this is a small incursion, on page 2. We are not in favour of this proposal. But it's in the committee position, as far as I've got it. The rapporteur, the representative of the Workers' Party, has made a good presentation. I think we have had good cooperation in the committee, in corridors and everywhere in cooperating on something that we all really agree on. I now see that all the parties at Stortinget will put all the cloths into the next round to have a mandatory site-of-death system carried out. The need for a review of practices in other countries is also sought by a unanimous committee. I'll say something about what we challenge. We believe from the Right that it is unwise that the majority has now made an explicit statement that mandatory site of death investigation is contrary to the Constitution § 102 in the light of the opinion of the Legal Service. The explicit interpretation of the Constitution by the Storting is traditionally given to natural enough weight, by e.g.: The Supreme Court. Whether or not a note relating to a Document No. Of course, 8 proposals are so explicit, there may be shared opinions about, but we are concerned that the majority of these actually limit the scope of action needed by the Government in promoting proposals for mandatory site-of-death studies later. In addition, we see it as a small commitment that the Stortinget should be ‘orientated in an appropriate form’. An orientation we know can be so numerous, it can happen at any time and does not necessarily give the Size the basis of assessment that the Size needs. So I'm dealing with the Right Minority Proposal. If this minority proposal does not receive sufficient support during the debate, the Right will vote subsidiaryly for the majority proposal, but will not be based on the premise that the relationship with the Constitution has been clarified in the light of the opinion of the Legal Service. Such an opinion cannot and should not bind the Storting and is merely an interpretation result based on the law in force, while the Storing is to create the Right. The right, therefore, asks the Government to examine how the system of site surveys is organised in other countries, including the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights, and to submit its own assessment and case to the European Parliament in the first half of 2011. In the further work, the Right takes the view that the Government relies on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Article 6 on the Right to Life and Survival and Article 19 which obliges States to take all appropriate measures to protect the child from all forms of psychological violence, harm and abuse. This Article imposes an obligation to take action to prevent violence and abuse, as well as measures relating to the reporting and visibility of violence and abuse. Of course, it can be argued that there are no preventive elements in a death-place study, as the child is already dead. But that argument cannot be used if, for example: is the sibling of deceased children. In any case, in the case of other children in the family, site of death testing must be carried out. It is also worth noting that in its concluding remarks to Norway in 2005, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child stated that it deplored the lack of statistical information on children who have been subjected to violence. Mortality studies believe that all of us can determine the cause of death and will contribute to meeting this committee’s recommendations. Finally, it was said here that wise men thought wise things in 1814. There were a few wise men who had reflected thoughts, and who were premiscuous at Eidsvoll. I think there have been more good premiscuous suppliers for the EMK, even though some may add more to the EMK than is good in a modern society. In the case of EMK assessments, it is worth noting that, for example: the Data Storage Directive, different national states have widely differing views of what the EMK actually says. That is why I hope that the review to be carried out by the Government does not merely make national assessments of the EMK – of course, it is not, of course, a look at the practice of other countries – but that one has an open look at the fact that the EMK also provides certain discretionary margins that I am not quite sure the Department of the Law stressed when it adopted its original interpretative opinion, not least since the Department of the Law has not assessed the fact that the United Kingdom has a mandatory site of death study.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e883	Ensuring legal certainty at least is a major social obligation. Small children are the ones who need the most protection in our society. The most defenseless are the smallest children. They depend on care and protection from adults, initially their own parents. Despite the fact that the vast majority of parents are happy with their children and do everything possible to provide the children with good and necessary care and protection, we know that some children are subjected to violence, abuse and care failure, even by their own parents. It is therefore important that there are clear rules and laws which, on the one hand, prevent and, on the other hand, expose violence, abuse and care failure. There is a cross-political agreement to strengthen the legal certainty of children and to step up efforts to combat violence and abuse. SV is pleased that the Committee has now agreed that an unconditional investigation obligation should be imposed, regardless of suspicion, on the part of the police and the prosecution authority when children die suddenly and unexpectedly. Such a change could ensure that the police actually carry out investigations, which could then form the basis for search independently of consent. In addition to a good investigation by the police, compliance with the reporting obligation of health professionals is crucial in order to strengthen the possibility of detecting a death due to criminal offences. I would like to stress the importance of the rapid entry into force of the regulation which strengthens the obligation of doctors to report to the police in the event of unnatural deaths. It is a unanimous committee that believes that a mandatory system of site-of-death studies combining the need for health knowledge on causes of sudden child deaths with the need for the detection of criminal acts is ideally preferable. The Committee has been made aware that countries such as the United Kingdom have a mandatory site of death survey, and SV is therefore pleased that the Government is now to examine these schemes more closely. Until we get such a statement, we assume that a mandatory system, the purpose of which is also to detect criminal offences, is unconstitutional, as is stated in the opinion of the Justice Department's Legal Service. I would also like to stress that the Government has committed itself to making a mandatory offer for a site-by-site health care survey in all cases of sudden unexpected child deaths where the child is between 0 and 3 years of age. This implies that health professionals have obligations to inform their parents of the available offer and its reasons. The sudden death of infants and young children is in itself a major tragedy, and it is difficult to understand how innocent parents experience this. The question of the cause will be very central. I would therefore like to point out that the evaluation report of the Child Death Project points to the fact that the factor that ensured that the parents who participated in the project had a positive experience of a death-place study being conducted was the competence of the professionals who participated. The persons responsible for the investigation must have good professional and interpersonal competence, so that parents participating do not experience it as burdensome and offensive. Information to parents about how other parents have experienced such a site of death study could be of crucial importance for parents to accept the offer. SV is satisfied that a solution has now been found that equips the police and prosecution authorities with the legal support they need to investigate when a child dies suddenly and unexpectedly, regardless of suspicion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e902	The legal security of little kids, who are the most vulnerable among us, and on which we have to take special care, is the theme of this case. I share the wish of the proposers for a mandatory death centre examination when infants die suddenly. I think that would be the best way to figure out whether or not small kids have died for reasons related to criminal offences. When Basic Law states against so-called house inquisitions set limits for such a mandatory investigation, it has been important to find the best possible arrangement to preserve the care of young people. The decision was taken last year to introduce a voluntary scheme with a competent team that, with the consent of parents, can investigate the place of death. It is important to stress that this team must be obliged to report to the police on any findings that may help to resolve the causes of death. For the siblings of the deceased, it would be a great advantage if any criminal offences were discovered. If the cause of death is care failure or selected, it will be necessary to consider measures to ensure that the disease is safe. When a voluntary scheme is now introduced, there is a high risk that parents who refuse the investigation may be suspected of having committed a criminal offence, even if the reason for their refusal is another reason than to hide such acts. This would have been an advantage if the investigation were mandatory, but a so-called mandatory offer as a voluntary scheme is likely to be accepted by most, thus contributing to the detection of possible criminal offences or to the acquisition of knowledge of other causes of death. The latter may prevent other young people from dying later for the same reason. A current example of knowledge saving lives is the great decline in the number of cases of crawling death. In order to substantiate the claim that a voluntary scheme could also detect care failure, I will refer to the trial project carried out by the Oslo Institute of Forensic Medicine between 2001 and 2004. Sudden and unexpected deaths in the 0–3 age group were provided and seven cases of care failure were detected. In fourteen other deaths where the police initially suspected that there was something criminal at hand, one could conclude that it was not. It will be important for parents who experience the worst, to get such clarification when they lose a young person. I find it worth clarifying, as a comment to the representative Octay Dahl, that it's not obvious that it's the same kind of death-city investigation we're talking about here today, that exists in England and in other countries. It is therefore important that the Government assess this further. Otherwise, I would like to refer you to the post from the case spokesperson, which I think did well for what the government party means in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e921	In this game, it's not every day that you can treat good suggestions that a plural government says it agrees with. That's why I want to start my article by saying that I'm really very happy today, because this is an incredibly important matter, where we finally take some steps closer to the solution that the Christian People's Party has been fighting for a long time. I am glad that the government party has turned around in this matter since the previous period, and now we are coming together, so that an important step in ensuring children's legal certainty is taken. But I have to ask why the government has said that children between the ages of 0 and 3 who die unexpectedly should have a worse legal security than others. Why have we had a special scheme in the health care system for the young children, when we know that one in five children between the ages of 0 and 3 who die unexpectedly, die either of care failure or because there is a criminal record? To what I think is important in this matter: Like the representative Octay Dahl, I am busy that the Stortinget does not have to conclude that mandatory city-of-death investigation is contrary to the Constitution § 102 – only because of the statements that have come from the Law Department. On the contrary, I would like to stress that from the Christian People's Party's side, we want to be offensive and give the Government the maximum possible space for action, so that she can come back with a matter as quickly as possible, and introduce mandatory death-city investigation as quickly as possible. We would like to provide children's legal security with pre-execution rights. In the previous period, the Christian People's Party also said that we wanted to "challenge the Constitution on how far it goes in relation to the framework we have". When it comes to the cases that are taking place today, the Christian People's Party primarily supports the proposals of the Right, but we will subsidiaryly vote for the proposals of the Multiples, which have become good, and which are coming a long way to meet the demands of the Christian People's Party on these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e932	Losing a child is the worst thing that parents can experience. When small children die suddenly and unexpectedly, it is central to the health care system providing the family with the necessary help and support. For the survivors, it is often important to make a diagnosis and get an explanation of what has happened. In a broader perspective, it is also important to obtain knowledge about the causes of sudden and unexpected infant deaths, so that we can prevent future deaths. In some cases, the death is also due to violence or other criminal offences committed by those caring for the child. The public then has an obligation to detect and prosecute these cases. These considerations shall be borne in mind by the system of mandatory offer of site-of-death studies adopted. With regard to the question of whether such a system of site-of-death examination should be mandatory when infants die suddenly and unexpectedly, there have been many misunderstandings both about what it really means for a scheme to be mandatory and what is the actual situation today. I am pleased that we now seem to be able to clarify a lot of this, and that we are on our way to a solution that, in my view, takes good care of the cross-cutting considerations. The solutions adopted by the majority will strengthen the possibilities of detecting criminal offences while respecting key principles of legal certainty and human rights. As is known, the Law Department issued an opinion on 4 March 2009 on the basis that mandatory, in the sense of forced, site-of-death studies would be contrary to the Basic Law § 102 and probably also to the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, Article 8 on the right to respect for home and private life. According to Article 8 of the ECHR, the outcome is due to a proportionality assessment, which requires a high focus on the objective – to detect criminal offences – to be achieved by less interventional means. In this context, it is also important to bear in mind that one in the proportionality assessment must, in particular, assess the nature of the intervention to parents who do not want such a study, and that a mandatory site of death study involves the use of power, if necessary, to persons in deep sorrow and crisis, and without suspicion of a criminal offence. In other words, it is a matter of many cross-cutting considerations. The investigation of child deaths to detect possible criminal offences follows the general investigation principles: the police have the opportunity to investigate if there are reasonable grounds for investigating criminal offences. This is not a strict condition. In addition, autopsy is routinely requested in all cases of sudden and unexpected infant death. The use of coercive measures, such as search, may be carried out if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting, as stated in the Criminal Procedures Act. It is therefore not correct, as has been claimed by some teams, that there are different rules when children and adults die suddenly and unexpectedly. It is the same rules as in the Criminal Procedures Act as regards the use of police enforcement methods, no matter how old the victim is. Nor can I see that there is a basis for asking questions about the police infringing the Constitution when it investigates sudden and unexpected deaths in adults, as is now stated. The Government will follow the wishes of the majority of the Committee on the amendment of the Criminal Procedures Act and the Public Prosecutor’s Guide so that sudden and unexpected deaths in children are always examined in greater detail, regardless of whether there is a suspicion of criminal offences. I would also like to follow the unanimous desire of the Committee on Legal Affairs to clarify the arrangements for site-of-death investigations in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e947	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e951	Can the council say how he perceives the order as such:... in an appropriate way to orientate the Storting. In what form does he see this happening? When do you expect this order to be submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e956	When it comes to the question of orientating the Storting, we have a lot of opportunities to do that. We also use every opportunity, be it budgetary documents or appropriate and relevant propositions or communications, but we have to get back to that. With regard to the actual progress of the whole case, I believe that it calls for speed, so that my answer is: as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e961	My reply is, in fact, a little follow-up to what the Council of State is introducing, namely that a death – losing its child – is one of the worst things you can experience. Therefore, I would rather believe that the Council of State is busy that one in those cases where unfortunately someone has done something wrong with his child, should be sure that the legal security around the child and will be taken care of. When one knows that one of the five children who die in that age group dies because of care failure or crime, I'm worried that one doesn't get going any faster. I therefore miss the fact that the Council of State could have our more offensive intervention instead of making sure that he really wanted to implement it. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council not see that if a missing child wants to know what has happened, and in those cases where a person does not want to know what has happened, there is probably something criminal behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e970	I don't know how I can show offensiveness to a greater extent than what I've done, and that this is something that's unusually important. You can hear the article and read the article. I believe that crime affecting children cannot be a high priority. That's why it's important to us that we focus on, among other things. the dialogue on this proposal, also referred to by the representative Mr Ropstad, is willing to find all kinds of solutions. I see the sum of proposals here shows that the government is also moving, in the sense that you accept that here we should, among other things. look at when the police are starting investigations and what matters the police are going to investigate. It is very important to do this with the obligation of investigation in these cases – it is absolutely essential. I now have full confidence that when this comes into place, along with the mandatory offer, it will mean significant progress in relation to these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e977	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e982	There is every reason to rejoice that there is an overall committee and, in all likelihood, also an aggregate size that supports the attitude of this case, thus giving a positive and strong signal that we want to create security and predictability in a situation that must be the worst that anyone can experience – that they lose their newborn child. Nevertheless, I go to the remarks of the majority. We from the Right think there is reason to ask a question to the majority comment on how to understand the wording: ‘Until the outcome of such a study is available, the majority assumes that a compulsory scheme, the purpose of which is also to detect any criminal offences, would be contrary to the Constitution § 102 [[...]] The question has to be asked whether, in this way, you want to limit the scope of action to future accumulation, but also to the government when you come to the practice and interpretation of the Basic Law § 102. I hope that's not the intention of the majority, but I still want to ask the question from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e994	The reason why, on behalf of the Right, I asked the Council of State a question about what is being put in the «appropriate way» of informing the Storting is simply that I want to have a assurance that the Storting will receive a dossier that is so qualified and reassuring that the Storting has the opportunity to assess this matter on an independent basis. That is why we have promoted what is our primary proposal. But I hope that the Council of State can confirm that it is not a good idea for a government to inform the Government, in the form of a petition in a budget proposal – I have experienced petitions here and there – that has been interpreted subsequently by the government and others to something quite different from the Storting, that one has a rather sloppy interpretation from the Government and the Council of State of what the majority is asking for, and that also the Right subsidiary supports. I assume that the result of the investigation is limited to as close as possible to a legal case, because that is the only possibility that Stortinget may have in this difficult case, to be able on an independent basis to assess the legality of the constitution. I understand that the Government will not, of course, present proposals that are contrary to the Constitution. But the Storting interprets the Constitution, and in order for the Storting to be able to interpret the Constitution properly, I think it makes sense that the Council of State's office, and the Council of State itself, make that decision as real as possible for the Storting. I would like to ask for a confirmation and clarification of what is actually being put into it, and how we perceive that this order from Stortinget's side today will be. It is therefore a prerequisite for the Right-wing subsidiary to support the majority proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1001	Just a couple of issues that it could be nice to comment at the end. One is whether the majority, with its comment, refers to «Section 102 of the Grunn Act on House Invisition», further restricts the administrative room for action. With the positive common position of the Stortinge in this area, I think it is important to emphasise what the majority says: 'Until the outcome of such a study is available: [[...]] There is another issue that arises in the debate. It was the representative of Ropstad who said that there is less legal certainty for children in relation to adults, and the Council of State commented on it. The representative Ørsal Johansen was in the same room. I would say, as I mentioned in my post, when the police are investigating deaths among adults, there is no experience in saying no to investigating the place of death, even if it is at home. There's no experience with that. If the police were to be denied access, they also had to take procedural action to get into the home in the usual way. The same will apply in cases where there is no relative to children. Here, of course, it's the same thing as the Council of State said. But in addition, I believe that we are creating stronger tools, which are well-founded by the representative Robstad, to ensure legal certainty for children, because here we are setting up these own expert teams that have special competence in this area, because we are carrying out autopsy of all, and because we are giving the police this special investigation obligation, regardless of suspicion, which we are today making with the changes in the Criminal Procedures Act that are in line with an overall increase. I therefore believe that we are ensuring better legal certainty for children, because we agree, as the Stortinget and especially the representative, Ropstad, that children need a special level of legal certainty in such cases, because it is often the most silent ones, and here we have the least opportunity to intervene in advance. I want to say that we are on good track of good solutions here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1012	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1015	This is not to be twisted and difficult, because we are politically agreed on the objectives here, but this is a question of law. Then I will be very specific on my two questions to the rapporteur on behalf of the majority. The first question: Does the majority believe that the question of the Constitution on the part of Stortinget is unclear – so far? I want a confirmatory answer to that – yes or no. The second question is, in what form does the majority want the Storting to be briefed? What does the rapporteur and the majority of the committee consider to be a ‘appropriate form’? There are two questions that I now want a clear answer on behalf of the Right before we go to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1024	In the case of Roman Numeral Proposal II, it says that the Storting should be informed in an appropriate form. I believe that then the government will have the opportunity to find the occasion and the form that you think is appropriate. It's a good move. It could be that we can do it quickly, and that we can get information that is relevant to what is requested in the Roman Numeral Decision. I'd say that when it comes to the shape of it itself, it's not necessarily crucial. But what the representative Dahl is making about thoroughness, I can sign on and also meet. In terms of the assessments and studies to be made against other countries, and the importance of these types of measures against the EMC, they need to be thorough, and they need to be wide-ranging. One possibility – one is already challenged in many ways to determine the appropriate form, the issue of the Storting invites a decision to be taken to try to find the appropriate form gradually – is to explain it in budgetary documents. That's all right. Of course, we can also send a letter to the Committee, which also provides adequate information. Since, after all the sun brands will decide that the Storting should be informed, I would think it would be natural in the context of the revised national budget or when the budget is presented, to present the assessments that have been made. I think we'll be able to meet the need for thoroughness into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1032	I thank the representative, Dahl, for the questions. I just want to make it clear that the answer to one question, how to present this to the Stortinget, was now the Council of State. From our side here on the Stortinget, of course, we in the Committee will want to deal with that matter and intervene with what we are informed about. The size can choose its shape when we get this presented, as the Council of State was about to do. We will certainly be able to ensure this, through the cooperation established on this issue, in a good way also in the Justice Committee. So to the second question that the representative Dahl asked again about the Constitution and the action space. Of course, we have to assume that when we have a hearing in the committee and want to have specific questions about the Basic Law Section 102 on house inquisition, and the fact that there are no serious objections from the Law Department or any other legal professional authority to the interpretation, Stortinget has experience in other areas of the matter that one cannot go out on any chance-seelas by simply saying that Stortinget builds up a separate interpretation of the Basic Law that is not quality-proof in a good way. That quality assurance in terms of meaning different from that of the Constitutional Law Department does not consider that the majority exists here. Therefore, we say that until such a new proposal is available – we then reserve the possibility to re-examine it – we assume that Section 102 of the Constitution must be interpreted as it has been done by the Law Department. Then we get the opportunity to come back to the matter. But we believe that here we have found a good solution to meet the common intention to investigate these sudden and unexpected child deaths in a good way, and we have put in special measures about this on the Storting, so we are very close to the common purpose we have. In doing so, we should not allow this debate to end with a disagreement, but rather with a strong disagreement that we have come a long way in solving a common task.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1039	The President assumes that the representative had intended to say a strong ‘unity’ in the last sentence, so that it would be included in the minutes. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1057	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1066	We have a proposal for a representative from several representatives from the Right on better, faster and more legal certainty in the use of DNA tracks. In the proposal, the representatives have tabled two proposals. The first is that the Storting asks the Government to ensure, on the basis of the prosecution instructions, that accredited free-capacity legal genetic laboratories can be used immediately and appropriately to implement the Storting's intentions behind the recently adopted DNA reform. The second proposal by the representatives is to ask the Government in the context of the revised national budget to provide up-to-date and quality-assured statistics on processing time, costs, etc. related to the forensics institute's DNA services for criminal justice. It also calls for a review of the DNA reforms of other countries and points out, among other things. in Sweden and the United Kingdom as two comparable countries. The Committee supports the wish of the proposers for greater quality assurance in the use of DNA in criminal matters. DNA is our time's fingerprint, and in criminal matters it's absolutely vital to have DNA tracks – and good access to good DNA tracks. Therefore, it is also dependent on the availability of sufficient laboratory capacity, so that DNA traces can be analysed at an early stage, and also so that police and investigators can get the results quickly, so that the institutes do not become a bottleneck in terms of speeding up investigations in matters. An overall committee points out that it is very important that DNA be used in all the issues of genetic material, and the Committee concludes that Norway should lead the world with regard to the use of DNA in criminal matters. The Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority, and I believe that the majority will make its views known. The minority, consisting of the Party of Advancement and the Right, indicates that in the hearing held by the Committee on 8 February 2010, a number of critical views were expressed on how the Institute of Forensics handles the treatment, analysis, and DNA. Clear questions were also asked about the quality of the work done by the Institute of Forensics and whether it is not now time for the Institute of Forensics to be ISO certified. It has also emerged that there is at least one highly competent environment in Norway, GENA in Stavanger, who wants to take charge of the police. The minority sees no reason for this to be reserved only for public authorities and the Forensic Institute. It is important that the police have access to several environments, precisely considering what I said about getting ahead of things. It is also important in all parts of our society that we have competition and environments that can provide other analyses, give a second opinion, in such important matters that we face here. I'm dealing with the two proposals from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1085	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1088	I'm sorry that the Right is such a small party that I have to speak so often that I become a meeting plague, completely involuntary. The whole Storting believes that DNA analysis and DNA reform is an important tool for solving matters faster. A lot of money has been spent on training police and other people throughout the country. It is a good and important goal when an overall committee, like the Government, states that Norway is to be the world leader in the use of DNA in criminal matters and that there is a good apparatus to help analyse such findings. When the Right wants a comparison of the target achievement in the DNA project and compare Norway with Sweden and the United Kingdom, which have carried out similar reforms, it is right that it has happened for some time back — compared to what we have done ourselves. But when the majority say that it will take some time before you have the full effect of the registers after the law changes come into force, it's half a truth. From a purely ideological point of view, we choose to protect a state institution that has had years to be accredited, while we do not choose to use a partially private-funded analysis institute that is, and where experience from England shows with all manner of clarity that this would be a natural bet. I think it's all going to be a parody in the Ministry of Economic Affairs' showcasing video about how to bet on female entrepreneurs, using the GENA's prime engine Ragne Farmen, while in a transitional phase the Ministry of Justice won't even buy the services that the Ministry of Economic Affairs boasts that she gets. And to make the parody even bigger, you choose not to take over GENA for reasons of regional policy, so that you can immediately take advantage of established competences and remove ideological barriers, but rather spend years and days establishing something in Tromsø. Rightly, you can understand GENA's frustration on behalf of all the victims of rape and crime you could have helped to solve things faster, and when you see that the professionalism and competence of people are of no interest to the sitting red-green regime. Instead, the Council of State uses, in its response to the Committee, the head of the trace section of the RMI, as an assurance of competence, its participation in a European network organisation, consisting of state-owned laboratories. To check this out, I sent a letter to the founder of ENFSI, Professor Brian Caddy. The Institute of Forensics has consistently fallen outside the requirements of being able to fully represent Norway in its membership, and is only invited to join a working group because only a DNA laboratory is subject to a university. It's quite interesting that this professor actually sees obvious problems with university-led DNA laboratories, and that ENFSI is simply not familiar with the head of the track section's qualifications, and almost does not perceive Norway's participation. When we also remember how McKinsey skin braided the University of Oslo in Today's Business on January 11th and called the University of Oslo an 'anarchy', we might ask why the RMI thrives as well as you do here. GENA in Stavanger is qualified and competent, and until now they have been the only ones in Norway that meet the accreditation requirements, as recommended in Council Recommendation No. [[92]] R GENA teaches legal genetics at the University of Stavanger and has thus been a DNA expert at «second opinion» at Norwegian courts since 2006. The establishment of several professional environments reinforces legal certainty through the possibility of ‘second opinion’, analysis and interpretation of DNA. It provides increased accessibility and strengthens the service nationally. For example, the RMI could be purchase services from GENA. It was offered in August 2006, in December 2008, but, according to their own opinion, had no leftovers, no challenges compared to the length of proceedings. And when we see in the Evening Post that there are obviously so many personal conflicts at the RMI that it is not possible to carry out what a total accumulation of intentions has, it is, to a large extent, an argument in itself – one is too vulnerable when personal conflicts can result in an entire institution, a state-owned monopoly, destroying the intentions of the Storting, which has been to solve crime more quickly, better and more legally. I want to challenge the Council of State at: When is Tromsø up and standing and can deliver exactly what GENA can deliver today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1117	Analysis of DNA is one of the most important tools for the police in the resolution of crime. That's why the government has put so much emphasis on the DNA reform in terms of both rule changes, and not least in terms of resources. At the same time, a system of central financing of DNA analyses means that the police themselves are not to pay for this analysis. With a $60 million bet. NOK 100 million in 2008. DKK in 2009 and close to 120 million. This year, the DNA bet is significant. It has therefore been invested in personnel, training, efficiency and quality at all stages, from actors to ensure that tracks at the site and DNA profiles are produced and recorded, until the results are used for investigation and correction. The volume of DNA analyses has increased significantly during the DNA reform. The number of railway tracks from the police districts has increased from approx. 350 things per day. the month before 1 September 2008 to more than 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases. month in November to December 2009. This is a triple from the time before the reform. Kripos now has 17 000 to 18 000 searchable person profiles in its registers. More than 2000 unidentified track profiles from the site were sent to the track register to Kripos. Half of the tracks entered in the register meet registered persons. Last year the police got hit in the DNA register 988 times, which is an increase of approximately. 60 pst. Nearly 3,000 policemen are trained in the DNA reform to ensure this, and that is about. 5000 to acquire this competence in total. This means that we already see significant results here. Despite this large increase in the number of cases, according to the Directorate of Police, all priority analysis cases are dealt with within specified time limits during the project period. I'm impressed with that. The collection and securing of evidence is at the heart of police and prosecution authorities. Treatment and analysis of DNA traces in criminal matters are the handling of evidence and a link in a chain of evidence assurance. Therefore, for reasons of legal certainty, the Government and a majority of the Grand Duchy did not wish to make tenders for such activities to commercial suppliers. The Forensics Institute – RMI – at the University of Oslo today conducts the analyses for the police and the prosecution authority. At the request of Stortinget, the government has also granted money in connection with the preparation of a new public analysis institute at the University of Tromsø. By providing room for a more targeted delineation and progressive extension of the right of registration in the regulation, the Government of the bill stated that the number of actually registered persons would be lower than those qualified for registration under the law. Then it is that more profiles for the register will now be able to create bottlenecks, and before the procedures associated with the register are properly in place, this will not be appropriate. We may think that the implementation phase of the reform will take time, but we will serve that time again later. One escapes constantly to clear in retrospect. Multiple laboratories will not be helpful. On the contrary, having to deal with several people will make streamline-forming the entire process more difficult. So I would also like to point out that it has now been seized, in collaboration with the National Attorney, to improve the quality of the track samples sent for analysis. Other countries, such as Sweden and England, have significantly more stringent quality requirements for which trace samples may be submitted for analysis in case of mining crime. In very many cases, the investigation team police are dependent on direct interaction with the analytical laboratory. The RMI also provides professional advice and guidance on a more general basis, as requested by the police. The police must then have confidence that there are no prospects of private economic profits ruling. The RMI, the Public Health Institute and Kripos enjoy a great deal of respect and trust in Norwegian courts, among Norwegian defenders and in Norwegian police and prosecution authorities. I don't want to risk this with a commercialization of DNA analyses or forensic services. In criminal justice, we depend on using well-established and tried-and-tested methods that have been arranged throughout the chain, from track to DNA analysis being completed. It's not a matter of technology and facilities alone. Recent technologies and methods for the analysis of touch DNA are controversial – technologies and methods such as: The Forensics Institute in Denmark says they don't dare use because the results are so uncertain, or as in Sweden, used in very special cases. A majority, I find reason to recall, of the members of the government-appointed DNA committee who resigned NOU 2005:19, warned against the commercialisation of forensic services, because this may create the need for extensive use of expertise in DNA.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1148	I have to say, I think the posts of the Council of State were relatively perceptive. It is strange that in a small country good resources, good environments, available in the country should not be used. Here we are not talking about using any kind of backyard company, these should be approved companies. But it is easy to conclude here – The government and the staff have taken that kind of attitude because you have total fear of environments that are not 100 pst. State-controlled. That's why I ask the Council of State, is that the case? There can be no other reason why good environments should not be used that have great competence in the subject they are going to perform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1155	This has been a topic that has been discussed many times. I think that sometimes in politics we have to find that we disagree. There are several reasons why the Government and the majority of the population have taken the position we have taken, both in the introduction of the reform, in the implementation of the reform, and as I read the setting today. It goes on both overall financial management, it goes on to get a streamlined reform and a result, and it goes on to the question of legal certainty, which we think is best taken care of by the method and structure of the structure that is now in place with the DNA reform. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that in terms of the results we have already received from the DNA reform, there is reason to give great consideration to the people involved in terms of scale, number of tests, and how many have been registered – but not least, as I also said in my post, in terms of the results we now see that we get so many hits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1164	I'm going to try something that's close to the ideology of the Council of State, that's to make a proposal that can suit him and the majority. I have not realized that it is doubtful that GENA has competence and quality, but that the problem is that they are governed by commercial interests. That's interesting because those who run it haven't made any pay in years. That's what it says! But, if that's the problem, why don't the Council of State buy into the private share of GENA, so that you get rid of the fundamental counter-representations against the fact that there are commercial interests here? GENA can then be used immediately, rather than waiting several years for something similar to that to be established in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1173	I have to say – with respect to reporting – that it is quite special to be confronted in Stortinget to decide on a concrete commercial company. It requires its own processes to make it difficult to do here in the Storting. But the government has chosen to invest large resources, and we believe that we have got the best results, precisely with the model we have chosen here. Now it's quite unnatural that almost every single occasion you discuss DNA in the Storting, you start discussing alternative models. We have no experience of the implementation of this great reform that was to speak in order for us to deviate from the model that the Government has actually chosen. We believe that it is constructive, that it is good, and that in the long term it will also deliver very good results in combating crime – and discovering it, not least.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1183	Yes, it is so good that almost every policeman and police officer I meet seems to be going too slowly. That's how good it is. But later on, the Council of State here as if this was an unknown proposal for him – that it is a proposal that comes over the table. This has been proposed before. What is the background to the fact that, over the last four years, the Council of State has chosen not to deal with an established environment of competence, where one is also open to being taken over by the State? It's not unknown to the Council of State. We've suggested that before, so he doesn't have to pretend he hasn't heard it. The second is, how can it be that there are fundamental counter-conceptions that the RMI can have a cooperation agreement with this analyst in a situation where it is not actually such that the Stortinge's intentions and objectives with DNA analyses have been achieved in view of the number of registrations to be in the DNA registry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1192	The DNA reform is a tough reform for the government. We use a lot of political force on it, and we spend a lot of financial resources on it, as stated earlier. Then it's about doing to find a model that we think will work best, not only against the rationale, that you need to have a quick procedure, etc., but also against quality and legal certainty. We've argued about it many times. I do not find it surprising that a specific company is being developed here in Stortinget. We've heard that every time we've discussed this. What I see as special is that you are demanding that you decide on a business relationship with this company here in Stortinget – because it requires your processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1199	It is not the case that the replicator here proposes that the Storting should agree with a specific company. Here we talk about a professional environment in an area where there are very few professional environments in Norway. When you have a good environment, it's very special that the police shouldn't be able to have the freedom to go to that environment, if you think it's right. There is also reason to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that, in the UK hearing on this proposal, there was very strong criticism of the way RMI works and the quality of the work they do. Then my question is, how soon will the Council of State get the Institute of Forensic Medicine up to an internationally sound professional level?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1208	I have long believed – and I have not lost that faith – and believe that the RMI holds a very high professional standard. That's why we think it's so important to handle these tests there. As far as the implementation of the reform is concerned, I am impressed by the extent to which both the police and the RMI have managed to handle DNA, so this is a phase of the reform in which we build up the register. It's quite obvious that the results we've got now are very good. What the Police Directorate has also reported on regarding the priority issues shows that it is also possible to deliver well in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1217	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1222	The DNA reform was in its time treated here in Stortinget with cross-political, full support in this room. It is an important step in the fight against crime, and it is an important step to provide both police and prosecution authorities with a tool to make justice processes safer and better. That's why we, as proposers, saw this as a positive opportunity for Stortinget to further strengthen and improve the work on the DNA reform. We can record that we have now put all the main posts in this matter behind us, we record that the Council of State defends the Government's position, and we record that not one of the committee's majority parties has defended its position under the main posts. The only significant argument that has been put forward — which has also been put forward by the Council of State for reasons — is that these DNA analyses should not be commercialised. But from our side, we have seen this as an opportunity to both reinforce and improve the DNA reform, thus contributing to the fight against crime. But we can record that it is the ideology that goes ahead in this matter – unfortunately!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1231	We understand when we put our head in the wall. But I'll start by saying something positive before I come with the rest of the frame when it's negative. It is positive that there are now statistics from the RMI on volume, processing time and costs. We hope that it will be good and quality-proof, and that the police are working on quality assurance of the track samples sent for DNA analysis. That's good. But then you are satisfied with the deadlines that have been set. The Council of State did not say what time it was. Is it four weeks? I want to ask the question: why are you so happy that it takes four weeks in Norway, while it takes a few days in some other countries? I actually think we should have the ambition to compare ourselves to these, especially since we're saying ourselves that we're going to be world leaders. So I asked a question about the University of Tromsø, where you think it's amazing with establishment. This means that you think it's nice with several professional environments, but you don't want to use a professional environment that's partly funded by the public and partly private. Proposals to take over parts of GENA are not above the table-proposals. It has been known by the Council of State for several years. But he won't, nor will he wait for it to be established in Tromsø. Since it is Tromsø you are betting on, I have a specific question to the Council of State: how can it be that Tromsø is not yet accredited? There was an open consultation in the Justice Committee in the previous period. That's what you're still saying: you're doing the accreditation work. How worldwide should accreditation work be carried out without a laboratory, without analytical procedures, without an accreditation based on routines in a specific laboratory – I have not come to know that it is established in Tromsø – and without information on training procedures for new employees, deviation management, forms and guidelines for cooperation? None of it's in place in Tromsø. And then the question is, why are you betting everything on that card, rather than getting rid of the principleal counter-conceptions about using something that started with a mix of public and private funds? The Ministry of Economic Affairs boasts in its videos of how good the government is to bet on female entrepreneurs. I really have to say that I think it is an understatement to say that it is special: I could well imagine saying, is it such that the Council of State has something'special' against taking over something that has been private? Or: Is it true that the Council of State is making every effort to make Tromsø a success, no matter how many years and how long it would take?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1244	We would like to take part in the debate on a very important matter, the DNA reform, and the effectiveness of the use of DNA tracks. There's been some kind of misunderstanding about drawing on the list of speakers here at first, so we're getting into the debate now. There's every reason to put emphasis on efficiency in the treatment of DNA tracks, and I think that's what everyone at Stortinget – and also the minister, as he stressed – is very concerned about. As has been announced in the revised budget, we will have a new statistical method based on new statistics on the effectiveness of the treatment of DNA traces in Norway, at the Forensic Institute, and also have the opportunity to assess whether the situation is satisfactory. But what we know, and as we're told from the DNA project in the police department, is that they haven't received one single complaint that the trial period at the RMI has gone beyond the investigation. What we know is that the deadlines are kept in all priority cases – the deadlines will be different in different kinds of cases. When, for example: for different types of track analyses, there will be an interaction between investigators, prosecutions and the Forensic Institute, where DNA analysis can be carried out at different stages. It's complicated work, complicated evidence, which makes it not as easy to determine the same short processing times as you can for other types of analysis, such as: personal samples, where the capacity of the RMI exceeds that currently used. We in the government parties are busy following this, and we are busy coming back to the matter. We see that there are some fundamental problems if you're going to put out tenders in this area. It surprises us a little bit, given what we have in public procurement legislation, that there is so much emphasis on a particular private company in the discussion here, because it is probably about the principle of using tenders in this area, on which the opposition is concerned. What's true for our part is that we'll now study these results thoroughly when they come. We see that in terms of legal certainty, privacy and interaction between the different actors here, it is important to have this organised on a public basis, but it is not impossible to discuss all those questions when we get answers to whether the capacity in the future will be good enough. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1257	The president just reminds us that there's an opportunity to draw on the list of speakers as well as five-minute posts, and it's turned up on two sides of the hall. If you don't do that, you'll be depreciated with a speaking time of 3 minutes – therefore this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1260	I have recorded that we have been accused of being principled and ideological. I'll take it as an honorary name. We have some principles, and we have some ideologies. It also has the right. Right-wing eagerness to privatize is well-known, and it's deep. The right has wanted to privatise a large part of Norwegian public owned hydropower – they have wanted this to be listed and privatised. The right has wanted to open up more private schools, to grant state aid to them — thereby privatising the school system. The right has wanted to quote the Post, put out the NSB and sell out all the railway property. It's privatizing. Right has wanted to privatize Entra, Flytoget, SAS, State Consultant, and I could mention many other things. But today I was a little surprised. I recommend that the Right-wing Representatives read their own speeches in the debate today. I feel that they are not concerned about the matter. Today they act – with all due respect – who paid lobbyists for one company. You can read your own articles. It's not just the Right who talks to the police and police officers, we do the same in SV and in the Workers' Party. We say it again and again – as we have been told by both the department and the police – that the tests are delivered within the limits needed by the police. In those cases where there is a need for rapid tests, rapid tests are provided. So we're concerned that this is a case where there are sensitive processes, it's sensitive information, and then it's important that they stay within the right framework. Then I also heard that comparable countries have many different suppliers. The truly comparable countries are Sweden and Denmark. There we know that there is one institute, and there is one body, just like in Norway, that is a supplier of these types of sensitive tests and has control of processes. So I hope that we will later not be accused of telling half the truth, but that you can also see from the Right how to present the matter and the facts in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1273	The President believes that accusing co-representatives of being ‘paid lobbyists’ is clearly outside of any parliamentaryly accepted language. The representative André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1279	If the Right should read, I would recommend the representative Akhtar Chaudhry to listen. I therefore proposed that the Council of State should reconsider the acquisition of the partially privately owned GENA. If it's being for commercial interests and being extremely principled in relation to private, I recommend Akhtar Chaudhry to use the plug on the ear even a little bit more industrious. I note that the majority is not at all concerned about the obvious personal conflicts at the RMI, that it is paralysing parts of the DNA reform. I note that there is no concern about all the findings of legal security issues at the RMI that came through the media all year last year, when Randi Rosenqvist announced. I find that you do not want to use available professional skills – because that is what is the motive for the Right, not to be drawn from private companies. But it's the only environment in Norway that is accredited, qualified and competent, and that you won't even consider taking over it, then I'll start wondering if there are any principles left at all, for example. SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1286	I think I'm going to start by stating that it's under this government's DNA reform has shot speed. It is under this government that something has actually happened in this matter. So it's under the government of Stoltenberg that we've got a DNA registrar and a DNA reform in place. It is to the glory of the red-greens, and especially to the great honour of the Council of State Knut Storberget that we are there today. 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases per 1 000 cases It is really strange that we end up with such a lot of criticism on a matter that we quite agree on in the committee – it is basically just the committee that is here. In particular, it's the Right who in the near past had the opportunity to express the evolution of the DNA reform. They had the opportunity to put the whole race for how we wanted it in the future. They didn't do it. Now there's another political regime, and we also have some other things we want to give priority to. So there's no question of privatising this service. Here we want the laboratory – a state, or official, laboratory – to be in the driver’s seat. What I could be a little open to is enough – and I think it is – that the state laboratory, in line with other laboratories to provide services for the public, should be accredited. That part of the criticism I think maybe we should take over, but otherwise I think it's important now that we look forward, and that it's the development of the DNA reform that becomes important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1295	As I said in my previous post, we see that behind this proposal, on the matter as a positive input to reinforce and improve the work on the DNA reform. Then, during the debate, we note that the majority of the parties want to give the state monopoly on this work, a non-accredited institution. We want to open up so that an accredited institution can also contribute its competence in this important work. It is the political realities of the matter as, not least, the representative Chaudhry underlined in his statement. I am very pleased with the President's observation in relation to Mr Chaudhry's contribution, and I also want to make it clear from the Chair that I have not had contact with this company at any time. I had leave during the hearing. So the statement that the representative made, I don't think in any way belong in or is worthy of this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1302	This is a very important debate, because, as the Council of State itself said, it is about legal certainty. But this debate has taken a very strange turn. This debate is not a matter of GENA or not GENA, but it is a matter of principle important in whether we should have a second opinion in Norway related to DNA analysis. A little over a week ago, there was a full-page chronicle in Nordlys written by a former member of the Justice Committee Olav Gunnar Ballo, now director of the Forensic Institute. His heavy messages in this article were precisely the need for a ‘second opinion’ and for strengthening legal certainty in Norway in this area. But his answer might not have been unexpected. He pointed to the new environment to come once in Tromsø. So the problem today is that we have an internationally recognised institute in our midst that can give us the second opinion from tomorrow, if the Council of State and the Government will break one of their possibly most sacred principles: that private, almost whatever they do, is something terrible and not to trust, despite the fact that the Institute of Forensic Medicine has cooperation agreements with the same GENA that are lepers, in this context, in this debate today. When it is then that it is most uncertain when the Tromsø environment could be established, when the Tromsø environment will be quality-proof enough to be able to carry on the important work in this area, it is very incomprehensible that we have a government and a Minister of Justice who believe that the principle and the considerations of legal certainty are at risk because the test could be harmed to be analysed by an institute that is partly – even partly – public owned, but which then has – unfortunately, some private owners involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1331	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be also limited here to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, it is proposed to give rise to a succession of lines of up to four lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. The speakers who had to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time usually have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1340	Some people have a lifelong need for society to make sure that someone takes responsibility for them and secures their rights. Some people need this because they're minors, others because they're not able to keep their own interests, their economy or personal relationships, despite being above the 18-year-old picture gallery. The reasons may be, for example: are disability or some mental illness. The Verjemsmålsinstitut has been created with the aim of having someone set them up. The Verjemstälga shall provide the formal framework for the tasks and responsibilities of being a court, to make decisions on behalf of others. The provisions of the laws must define the rights of those who are placed under protection and ensure that they are preserved in the best possible way. The whole committee agrees that today’s system of unempowerment is to be replaced by an individual-adapted protection scheme, from the law to the law. The principle that a minimum resource should be considered necessary is passed on and made more clear. The Committee also draws attention to the fact that the draft law provides for a high level of participation for those under protection, including those under protection. that, as far as possible, the relevant person shall be heard before any important decision is taken. The superfiche must be transferred from the municipalities to the county. This will provide a basis for the need for professionalisation and empowerment. The Committee agrees, but also stresses that the current system has worked well in many municipalities. Useful local knowledge with which the municipalities have their counterparts can be lost by a more centralised system. For this reason, the majority of the members of the Committee shall include: emphasis on the ability of municipalities to record the names of permanent shelters. I want to make it clear that I said something wrong instead: the progress party has not joined this transfer from the municipalities to the county. As case spokesperson, I would like to clarify something about the subject of mandatory agreements. Young people using mobile phones and the Internet should not be able to bear debts, which is also the rule of other types of product and services. Although large amounts are not necessarily involved, agreements are potentially a burden on young people. We need to preserve our young people's ability to participate in digital developments, but the initial commitment that this often requires is the minor's perpetrator, or guardian, who has to enter into. This will also apply to contractual obligations in addition to purely economic ones. Otherwise, this issue is well clarified in the response of the Council of State to the Committee, dated 27 January this year. Before this new protection law can apply, a few necessary regulations must be put in place and the new organisation must be put in place. The intention is that this should be done by 1 January 2012, but of course promises were made in the State budget. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a proposal for a new representation law for single minor asylum seekers in NOW 2004:16. We're looking forward to the government coming forward with proposals for a new law of representation in a short time. After a limited delay, issues of protection will be resolved by the law of defence, but it is important to ensure that the rights of the single minor asylum seekers who fall outside it are protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1361	Although in many cases it has worked well with the municipal head office in several municipalities, I believe that the department's proposal to place the municipal head office in the county is sensible. The aim of such reorganisation is to ensure good competence and satisfactory legal security for those in need throughout the country. The municipalities of Norway are very different in size, and it is not always as easy to have a good quality offer in all municipalities. Our task as politicians is to establish laws and rules that benefit the legal security and integrity of those under defence. Then I'm overconfident that the proposal to organise this under the county will give increased competence and professionalism. Today we have a law that was passed many decades ago. That's why it's now in place to carry out a revision that's adapted to today's society. In addition, it is good that there will now be an individual-adapted object. With new protection laws, the government is providing vulnerable groups with increased legal certainty, and the bill emphasises that each individual has a right to respect and protection for his rights. The fact that some people are placed under protection may in itself be seen as dramatic. But it's no more dramatic than that it's gonna be an event that can and has the knowledge to act on behalf of another person. There may be many reasons why a person gets an appointment. It may be due to age, health or other social conditions. This does not mean that the person is completely without influence. No, when there is an ordinary purpose, the person will retain his legal capacity to act and can therefore also dispose of himself. I agree with the Ministry that when it comes to taking from the individual the legal profession in personal circumstances, it has to be done with great care and only in very specific areas. The individual’s need must be centered. The legal instrument should therefore never be signed by him or her unless necessary. In today's law, it's an obligation to accept the work as a living. It takes a lot of time to refuse to take on such a task. With this law audit, this will change to be a voluntary assignment. By means of this legislative decision, it will also be possible for the defence authorities to establish arrangements for permanent shelters on a voluntary basis, and they will be obliged to produce a police record. So I also think, like the ministry, that it makes sense to establish that the general rule is that infernal guardians should be entitled to some proof, and that close family only have the right to proof if specific reasons speak for it. It's natural to think that in any case close family has a desire to help towards their most needy family member without thinking that one should have proof of it. But for long-term and demanding assignments, it should also be appreciated whether it is reasonable that close family members also receive some proof. We should bear in mind that many relatives make a great, responsible and irreplaceable effort for their family members who need help. The legislative proposal also modernises the rules on the right of children to conclude agreements and conduct other legal acts. The general rule that children under the age of 18 do not have legal capacity is maintained. This also applies where the mobile phone or the network has been used as a means of concluding agreements. A certain softening of the rules is proposed for children over 15 years of age, for example. that children over the age of 15 may agree on part-time work on their own. The legislative proposal also contains rules on future powers, which should be a private and flexible alternative to defence. The rules give all authorized persons the right to set up a future authorisation, which determines who will represent the person if he or she is not able to maintain his or her interests later in life. In the mandate, the principal may also specify details of his or her financial or more personal arrangements. The legislative proposal also proposes a separate legal authorisation too close. As related, a first spouse or partner counts, then children, grandchildren, and parents. Presidencies grant a adjacent right to represent a family member who, because of his or her mental illness or seriously weakened health, is no longer able to retain his or her financial interests. This legal authorisation is limited to making financial arrangements for the family member's housing and everyday entertainment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1384	The Progress Party welcomes most of the proposals that are being promoted here in a new law on defence. We see that the old law is no longer adapted to today's modern society, as well as that the legislation to ensure representation for people who need assistance to care for their own interests had to be modernised and better adapted to today's circumstances. Awareness of the need to protect the rights of vulnerable groups has increased both in Norway and elsewhere in the world. In addition, we also see that family patterns have changed and that society has become more complex. Circumstances such as the recognition of future powers, individual-adapted functions and the participation of the individual under guardianship are all matters which take more account of the individual's personal integrity. I do not feel the need to elaborate on any of the areas in which the case rapporteur was involved and in which we agree, but I would rather focus on the two concrete proposals that we are promoting in the matter. We have opposed the proposal that the county council should take over the role of the head office in relation to the Vergemålsinstitut. We want the county authority to be limited in the long term. It is therefore not appropriate to contribute to the assignment of new tasks to the Office. Therefore, in the Progress Party, we believe that it would be better to set up larger intercommunal units to operate what is currently the opposite imagery. In this way, more efficient operations will be possible, while the ability to maintain knowledge of the individual under protection is greater than that of the county. We have seen that the hearing bodies point to the need for adequate proximity and trust in the organisation, and we will therefore give priority to inter-municipal cooperation rather than the addition of the head office to the county council. We believe that this way one can maintain much more local knowledge that could otherwise be lost. But we also see the concern of different organisations that fear that fixed forget-ups will have limited opportunity to follow-up on individuals, as they will need to assist a larger number of people, all of whom should receive close and frequent follow-up, with particular emphasis on personal assistance. The Progress Party will therefore follow developments in this area with the Argus eyes, and we will expect an evaluation of the law after a certain period of time to see if it takes care of our weakest according to the intention of the bill. The Progress Party also disagrees with the rule that all deposits of minors above NOK 75 000 are to be managed by the State. In our view, parents who are vulnerable to the children have much better assumptions for managing these values together with or on behalf of the children than a government agency. We therefore believe that no financial limit should be set, as parents and/or supervisors will be able to take the best possible care of the individual's interests. But of course, in individual cases where both parents and/or supervisors are not present, we see that there may be a need to limit the amount. We therefore propose that in cases where the government is to take over the management of financial assets, this limit should be set at NOK 250000. On behalf of the Progress Party, I address the proposals that have been made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1401	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1404	The new Act on Vergemål is to replace the Act on Inauguration from 1898 and the Act on Vergemögkeit for unauthorised persons from 1927. It is quite clear that these are laws that are mature for modernisation. The new legislative proposal involves an individual adaptation that allows for flexibility in the practice of the law, which is most welcome. The so-called minimum medium principle is what is taken into account in the exercise of this difficult and important function. So the least average principle is that we have a situation adjustment, an individual adaptation, that's based on it. It is a demanding, but correct approach to this subject because it includes much more than the two previously mentioned promises a co-inference for those who are put under protective measures. It is also the case that technology has evolved a lot since 1898, and especially for minors under protection, there are issues related to the use of mobile phones and the Internet that are facing special challenges, which I believe is important that we keep a close eye on the future. This relates in particular to the possibility for minors who are placed under guardianship to conclude contracts obliging subsequent payments. Experience needs to be gained here, and here we need to have an approach that allows the legislation to be adapted as we experience it. The municipalities have had a primary responsibility for this subject area until now. The over-prevalence of municipalities has mainly done a very important and good job based on local knowledge and local involvement. The county council now assumes this role, and the right is involved in that transition because we believe it is important to base systematic and good competence – not that the municipalities do not have it, but we believe that it can be done in a better and more holistic way by the county council. We believe, as it is clear from the case, that the municipalities should be consulted by appointment of fixed tenants. It is also clear from the case that this law, if adopted later today – and it becomes – requires changes to a wide range of other laws. I would urge the Council of State to monitor that the necessary legislative changes in other laws can take place quickly, so that, when this law enters into force, we have a comprehensive, fully-fledged law that can deal with these important issues that concern individuals deeply into their life situation, in a predictable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1419	We really have been waiting for this matter. When the Left had the Justice Minister's job, a sample was put down to look at the entire court code. The investigation came in 2004, so it was time we got the first round. It's obvious that the whole concept of guardians needs a fundamental revision in a lot of areas. Yes, the whole attitude we have towards being responsible for another human being in the way you have as a guardian is dramatically changed in society over the last decades. There is one thing that has not been mentioned here, which I want to raise, and it goes on training those who have this job. It is very visible in the part that is not included here, namely the asylum section, single minor asylum seekers, for example, but I still think it would be easier to get people to take on the job if you had been sure of proper training and a proper follow-up of the job. It had also ensured the quality of the job to be done. So I want to say a little bit about suggestion number. 3, from the Progress Party, which the Left would like to support, and that goes at the amount limit. This is entirely in line with a proposal that has been put forward by the Left in the past. The fact that there is no revision of the financial limit for public intervention in relation to children's wealth, for example, means that it is shifted in the balance sheet here in relation to what is people's legal opinion. I can give an example from reality: a single mother wins a prize that she wants to give as initial capital to her child. She puts it in an account, which shall be the child's account, as initial capital in life. Then the child becomes nine years old and wants to be extremely nice – she wants to be extremely long. The only mother doesn't have very good advice, so she says if you're going to have that bike, you're going to have to pay for it. Mother and daughter go to the bank to take out money to buy bicycles, but because the prize money that mother has received exceeds that sum, you have to apply for permission to buy bicycles for the nine-year-old. One thing is when large sums are to be taken out, but there has to be a relationship here that is related to people's normal perception of justice, and those limits are not right today in relation to neither the amount limit for when to look after children's wealth, nor the limit for what it is you can take out. So it's good that we have systems that protect children's legal certainty against parents who want to spend money, but it's got to be for a nine-year-old who's been so lucky to get a start capital in life, and has a mother with bad advice, to be allowed to buy the bike she's been dreaming for a very long time that she's going to get. Then we have a proposal together with the Progress Party, which they will probably promote later, about digital services. We believe that this is still very unclear, and a job needs to be done to make it clearer. Then I have to say that we are attending very much the asylum section here, where I feel that we are very behind in terms of having good quality on the protection part. It's going to be exciting to see if the government spends six years getting there, or if it's going a little bit faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1434	The President takes the view that proposal No. 4 was taken up by the representative Åse Michaelsen, so it should be well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1437	I am very pleased that the Stortinget is today going to adopt a new court order. This is about perhaps the most vulnerable people, and if you've discussed legal certainty in the past today, we're the most vulnerable in the area of legal certainty now. I am also pleased that such a major issue, which may not be so often in the public domain, has been brought together on the main solutions proposed by the Government. Because it is a very comprehensive and substantively important legislative audit. The new Vergemålsgesetz is a 100-year reform in the field of human rights, in order to continue where the representative Werp left off. It's been about 100 years since the last area was continuously revised. Much has happened, to put it nicely, around the life situation of people in these years. Both human rights and the welfare community are well developed during this period. All of this requires new rules and rethinking around the legal body. The Vergemålsgesetz affects us all. It concerns children and parents, it concerns the elderly, it concerns persons with different diagnosis or disabilities who need assistance to care for their own interests in the economic or personal sphere, and it concerns all those who stand up and take on office as guardians. I've met a lot of people, and I've also met a lot of good contact people, especially at the asylum recipients, and they're doing a function far beyond upholding rights. So this is a law that most people will meet in periods of life, and it's important that the law provides good solutions and balanced and appropriate rules. An important news in the new law is that today’s two-track system of unemployment and relief agencies is ending. The bill is intended to be replaced by an individual-adapted agency. Respect for each individual should be one of the cornerstones of the Norwegian society, and it should also apply to those who are under guardianship — in particular to them. In an individualised workpiece, individual needs shall be clarified and the workpiece shall be adapted to the needs. Most defences for adults will be based on the consent of the person concerned, but it will also be opened for decisions to be taken against the will of the individual. We see that not all abilities to act in accordance with their own interests, and then society must have the opportunity to make decisions on behalf of individuals in order to safeguard the individual's own rights where necessary. Such partial waiving of legal capacity requires careful evaluation and judicial review. Today, there is a choice between full unemployment and a completely voluntary relief campaign. One will often be too far-reaching; the other will not provide sufficient help. Access to a partial and individualised waiver of legal capacity may be the key to solving many fixed situations. I have noticed that the Committee in the configuration has paid particular attention to the position of the children. Today's minors are under considerable commercial pressure, I agree. This pressure comes, among other things. via mobile phone and the Internet. I would nevertheless like to stress – and I think that is important now, since many have raised the issue in the debate as well – that it is the same protection for the minor when making agreements via the Internet and mobile phone, as when concluding the agreement in a more traditional way. These are the same rules that apply. Children shall not be liable for any liability of any kind, and children shall have only the means at their disposal which they have earned through their own employment, activity or means. It may seem that some system operators have considered the network to be a lawless area. It's not. Norwegian children shall have the same security whether they use the network, the mobile phone or whether they trade over a disk. These principles already apply today, but reality has shown us that there has been a need to underline and clarify the rules, and perhaps also to focus more on how these rules are actually enforced. Since questions have been raised about it, I find reason to clarify it now. The new Vergemålsgesetz will also involve the reorganisation of today’s municipal overtures. The brother of today's superiors is not employed. The task is carried out as a duty. On a more or less unpaid basis, many opposite managers have made a fantastic effort over many years. However, we have seen that it is increasingly demanding to solve such a complex problem in this way. I think I'll be a good solution to this. The county has good contact with the municipalities, professional breadth and depth and is competent for guidance and training. However, it has been suggested that the task can be more decentralised within the county when specific reasons speak for it, and there is, in any case, a prerequisite for cooperation and communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1460	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1463	It's always like when new laws and regulations come into force, it takes a while before you see how they work. So in this case, it is a law that is primarily responsible for the weakest in society, which the Minister of Justice was also involved in. It is also often a group that has neither the ability nor the ability in any case to indicate that they are not being properly cared for. Then it is all the more important to be able to evaluate the law — not after a long time, but after a reasonably short period of time — to see if the individual is properly cared for. Can the Minister of Justice confirm that he will come back with an evaluation of how the law works, precisely because this is a group which, even in all cases, is not able to make errors visible and that the intention of the law does not follow what we are discussing here today: that it should be effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1470	It's an unusually important issue the representative Michaelsen is addressing. I don't think we'll get out of here when this law comes into force, after a while of course to evaluate how this works. It's also important because many of the people involved here may not have the same ability as everyone else to say from how things work. It is also important to see how this law will work, because there are new legal institutions here. And especially in the case of future authorisation, in the case of the more custom-made arrangements, we depend on having it checked out. So I want to promise the representative and the Stortinget that when we come up with the proposal for entry into force in relation to this law, we also have the question of evaluation with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1477	It is clear from the document and from the case that the law will not enter into force until sufficient funds have been allocated to it in the budget. So my question to the Council of State is: What are the assessments of the Council of State and the Ministry of State around the date of entry into force, and therefore also the financing of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1482	When the representative asks me that way, and in the question also shows understanding that this is dependent on appropriations, it goes without saying that then it is difficult for me to answer before we have dealt with future budgets. But this is a question I am holding ongoing dialogue with the Minister of Finance about, formerly County Sigbjørn Johnsen, who is concerned about this reform. It is quite obvious that, in particular, in order to enable the county councillors and guards to do the very extensive job of this mandate, resources will be required. From the Ministry of Justice and my side, this will be a priority in the budgetary discussions we are now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1489	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1494	The representative Michaelsen has well explained the position of the Progress Party in this matter. We have a different solution in terms of authority, by pointing to intermunicipal cooperation or that host municipalities should have this authority. In fact, we believe that in the context of intermunicipal cooperation or in the individual municipalities there is the competence to take this type of authority as well. Only one explanation of vote: proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, will normally be transmitted. This also applies to proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In this respect, we find it difficult to vote in favour of the law. In principle, the Progress Party should have voted against large parts of the law, but it would be a little inefficient. However, we will ask to vote against §§4, 5, 6 and 7 in order to make it clear that there we stand out from the majority. But then there are other paragraphs in which the county council is also involved, where the Progress Party agrees with the intention of the paragraph. That is why I would ask when the Progress Party will vote for all the other laws – except §4,5,6 and 7 – that this is not understood as meaning that the Progress Party is for the county to become authority. Proposals Nos. 1 and 3 will be taken into consideration at a later stage. This is to make it more effective. And then we think we've come to understand that we're against the state being given that authority. There is a connection between the intention of the Progress Party to reduce the number of posts to five at a later stage, among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1501	I just want to announce that the Right will support proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Left. This is in line with the comments of the Right in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1506	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1522	I had intended to make this reasonably short, because we have had to deal with proposals for a new trade mark law. It is a comprehensive proposal that the Government has put forward. But as stated in the vote, the entire committee supports the good proposal presented by the Government. We note that this is a rationalisation of existing legislation, an update of existing legislation, and that is what the Committee welcomes. We have also noticed that the new law does not involve the major material changes from the current law, and that some EEA adaptations and other international adaptations are made to agreements to which Norway has acceded. Another point here is, as we also see with satisfaction, that we are seeking the best possible Nordic legal entity in terms of the trademark law. It's important in all the laws that we're going to adopt in the future, that we also look at our Nordic neighbours, so that we don't get different legal entities in areas where it's important that we have as much equality as possible in the Nordic region. These are my comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1535	Fair cards: it is important that now a trademark is legally protected when it relates to its commercial origin. We see many examples of the use of the trade mark today – a trade mark that is opposed to the original trade marks. And it's fine now that the brand owner has a right to prohibit others from using things that can easily be confused with trademarks that have a legal right, so that one does not get a confusion. It's good for the consumers. Otherwise, this proposal is a adaptation to the EEA Agreement and other international trade agreements, and the law represents coordination and simplification. When it comes to changing the rules on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, it is gratifying that the Ministry is now working on this issue and that a proposal for a legislative amendment will be sent to the public during 2010. Furthermore, through this legal process, a system will be put in place whereby the Patent Board may review the trademarks registered in the Patent Board. It's very good, and it doesn't at least represent a simplification. The alternative would have been our courts. This revision and modernisation of laws will be good for users, as the legislation will be easier for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1548	This is also seen from the Right as a good proposal – a modernisation of the law to new times. Not least, it involves a significant and important part of international coordination and coordination, which helps business to improve the profile and predictability of business as such. So from the right-hand side, this is a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1571	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1580	It is a joint judicial committee that adheres to a very important bill from the Government, the Police Register Act. There are two main aims of the bill. It is about strengthening privacy, strengthening the rights of data subjects, and it is about giving the police the opportunity to perform their tasks effectively. Privacy is strengthened in many ways by the legislative proposal, including: it is provided for traceability in relation to being able to check whether unauthorised use of personal data has taken place. The provision of comprehensive provisions on professional secrecy relating to the disclosure of the information is included and specific rules are also laid down for the processing of particularly sensitive information, such as: religious belief or sexual orientation. At the same time, the Committee is committed to ensuring that the police have the ability to perform their duties properly and freely and to make use of the information they obtain, in an effective manner, in relation to the police purposes as defined in the legislative proposal. In this context, the Committee considers some important clarifications, including: for the processing of data which is not known to be necessary or relevant for police purposes. There is a time limit to finding out within four months whether this information may at all be relevant to police work. If they are, they must not be erased, nor, of course, when it comes to the individual criminal proceedings. But if they have nothing to do with the police's work at all, information should be erased within four months. There is also a comprehensive reference in the law on background control and police attestations related to it. It is today that the delivery of police certificates and background checks is linked to the special legislation for which the individual department is responsible, but as stated in the law, there is now a need to establish an overall code of good repute and police attestations. It's in this law on police records. This includes, inter alia: a period of three years in respect of all types of reactions which may arise in a police record, but in the case of crimes in which an unconditional prison sentence of more than six months has been imposed, the 10-year period common to today shall continue to apply in the police records. In the case of exhaustive police statements, which are therefore more extensive than those belonging to the usual special legislation today, it will not, as a general rule, be such a time limit at all, but there are some exceptions to it in this law. It is also provided with own certificates called child care certificates in the bill, because the Committee and the Government see the need to have child care certificates where other types of crimes that are not directly related to children are also brought in. in the case of serious crime of violence and drugs or sexual crimes against adults. In terms of transparency, the general rule of the law is transparency. But it is clear that when it comes to fighting crime, protecting witnesses, protecting victims, etc., there must be great exceptions to transparency in order for the police to be able to do their job properly. The exceptions for transparency are governed by the Police Register Act and the Committee joins them. There are also rules for erasure, where information is no longer necessary for police purposes, if it is to be blocked, if it is to be seen in other contexts, such as: in the case of claims, this information may need to be provided on subsequent occasions. As regards the supervision of the new Police Register Act, the Data Protection Authority is the supervisory body. Data supervision will be available in all cases other than the PST, where the EOS Committee will be the supervisory body. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1606	It is with some pleasure that I record that there is once again a matter for consideration in Stortinget, where the Justice Committee is very much in agreement – not to say entirely – with the position and in the case. It is important to provide the police with the tools they need to do a good job, but it is also important that we regulate these tools, both their use and what tools the police can use. In this way, we also see it as important when this law comes into force and we must start with the preparation of regulations, that we have a close dialogue with important bodies, such as the Commission. Data supervision, so that the supervisory work to be carried out in retrospect can be as effective as possible. The Progress Party is a little concerned about the possibility of providing information from the police. There are some exceptions to the obligation of professional secrecy, and it is permissible to ask yourself how carefully these rules have been evaluated in advance of the new bill. We also see that there may be certain challenges in providing information to foreign police, and in particular the ability to provide unverified information. Today, we have some experience of information that has been provided to other countries and that has led to the conviction of Norwegian citizens, perhaps because of this information or because of the interpretation of this information by the foreign country. It is important to include it in this case as well. There has also been a small public debate where there has been a problem that PST should not be subject to the same restrictions as for other police activities. Clearly, PST is in a special position. It would be unnatural, with the specialty of the PST, for them to be subject to the same constraints as the police. But we have the EOS selection that individuals can use to check their data if they are registered with PST. That's, in our opinion, a good way to do it. One then escapes the fact that some of the information that the PST holds is becoming excessive. It goes without saying that it may not be entirely natural for a lawyer to go in and check out any information in connection with a matter he might get for treatment. So it's true that PST has a certain ability to keep secret. Otherwise, this is a very good and straightforward matter, and we hope that the implementation will go without pain.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1619	In many ways, it is a little sad that the EU is the one that has to breathe into our necks in order for us to get ahead of this type of legislation. But now the law is good. Developments in the EU in the field of justice policy make it apparent that Norway’s externalities are problematic, all the time we see that there is an increasingly dynamic development which, at a given time, in any case has a direct impact on Norway. The present legislative proposal, the recently adopted Stockholm Programme and the so-called Data Storage Directive are examples of something that shows the same and should be considered whether it benefits Norway’s judicial policy interests to be outside the EU. What the Right believes about the EU, I think most people know, so I'm not going to make any more arguments for the EU now. The law that is passed today is really quite an impressive piece of work. We've spent a lot of time on the right getting involved in a reasonably complex matter. I think the whole committee can agree that this is not simple, but very complex. I want to commend the Government and the public service for transparency in involving also the opposition in the consideration of the proposal. I'm going to be completely honest and say that without it, I think maybe some of us would have had a lot of trouble understanding the law – if we hadn't had better time to really study it. I must say that inspires repetition; that you get the kind of review that we've got here, and that the Council of State in its letter opened up in a good way. It regulates fundamental principles of data protection law on the adequacy, necessity and quality of the data – adequacy, correctness and relevance – and that they are adapted to the work of the police. I think we have found a good balance between privacy and police needs on behalf of society, for example. the ability of the police to process information for four months even if they do not know whether the information is necessary or relevant to a police situation. It is important that this time limit applies only to information which does not prove to be relevant at all to the work of the police and that it does not apply to the processing of data in individual criminal proceedings. The same applies to the proposal that police information systems should be traceable. This is important in order to ensure important data protection considerations such as many, e.g.: in the data storage directive debate, is busy. By logging out who has retrieved different information in the registers, it is ensured that verification of unauthorised use, for which very many are concerned, is not least due to leakages that have occurred, for example. in the media. In this context, I would like to point out to the Right the importance of further work on the preparation of regulations for this law inviting the widest possible dialogue with important bodies, such as the Commission. Data supervision, also with a view to ensuring that the supervisory work to be carried out by the Data Protection Supervisors can be as effective as possible, in order to have an understanding of the assumptions of the adoption of the law which may guide subsequent verifications. It is also important that one department has overall responsibility for background control and that, in the future, individual departments will not have the opportunity to submit proposals on police certificates that do not comply with the Police Register Act. I would like to ask the Council of State to say something about the progress in the harmonisation of special legislation that will then have to be done, not least to foreign workers applying for a job in Norway. In reply to my written question dated 25 January this year, the Council of State explained well that this generally causes a number of problems that it is difficult to solve. But when it comes to trying to harmonise special legislation, I would like the Council of State to say something about how he sees this work to be carried out. Sharing information with the authorities of other countries may pose significant data protection challenges. It means both the Right Party and the Advance Party, and I would like to make sure that the majority is of the same opinion. Press from the authorities of other countries may lead to a reduction in the level of privacy in Norway, for example: in the fight against terrorism. I would therefore also ask the Council of State to say something about whether he is open to provide an overall review of the practice of providing this type of information or, for that matter, when an evaluation of the law is supposed to be implemented, if necessary at a closed committee meeting if there is confidential information or other evidence to prevent that type of evaluation from coming out to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1636	In order for the police to be able to work effectively and effectively to resolve criminal cases, they are, of course, dependent on obtaining information and securing evidence. It's about information and tracks that immediately seemed to be relevant, but also those that they still don't know if they're going to use. The background to this new police register law is that one has seen a need to clarify the purpose of this collection and how one uses information. It is highlighted by the Government that this will change to a lesser extent the day-to-day work and the working methods of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So the intention is to find a balance between the purpose of the prosecution authority and the work to be done, on the one hand, and the privacy of the individual on the other hand, whether the person concerned is a victim, suspected, accused, or a witness. There is no reason for any kind of information to be recorded and stored over a long period of time. I believe the bill will strengthen privacy, and there is one of the most central issues in the police records laws. Privacy continues to be subject to a high level of pressure, requiring up-to-date laws and a high level of awareness in order to safeguard the right to privacy. We need to distinguish clearly between what is important information to fight crime and what is not relevant in this context. The Police Register Act makes each person’s right to information about himself clearer. The laws provide a framework for transparency and, in particular, for correcting and erasing incorrect information and the right to appeal against decisions taken. The information should be deleted when it is no longer necessary for its purpose, which means that the police will not be in possession of information that they do not benefit from – nor will it be in a position to take care of ‘for security’. In view of international cooperation through the Prüm Agreement, this would be both sensible and necessary. The provision of information on Norwegian citizens to the rest of the world shall be carried out with caution, and when information is first to be provided, it is important that less irrelevant information is included. We trust that the police are conducting effective research and are securing good results when something happens. Through good frameworks that make effective police work possible, everyone should be able to rely fully on the police to do a good job and to handle all the sensitive information they have with them in a safe manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1649	The new law on police records contains a lot of good. One of the aims of the law is to protect privacy. It's important. Collecting and storing research information often involves collecting a number of sensitive personal data. We in the Left are therefore pleased that the Data Protection Authority is given a role to the police. We in the Left agree with the Progress Party and the Right that future regulatory work must cooperate with the Data Protection Authority to ensure that supervision is effective. We are also pleased that there should be privacy advisers in the police. The bill contains a separate chapter on the police security service, PST. The main aspects relating to the performance of the PST are already regulated in the August 2005 regulation on services. This was the last formal clean-up that Odd Einar Dørum received after the Lund Commission. The left has been, and is, a champion of openness. Lack of transparency in PST's business is therefore fundamentally worrying. But neither does the Left believe that our secret services should be fully transparent. What we are very concerned about, however, is that a secret service such as the PST must have clear grounds of law and that its activities must be subject to both administrative and judicial control. The role of the EOS Committee is of particular importance for the audit of the service — in addition to the verification that courts can carry out. In conclusion, the EOS Committee is, in my view, positively outstanding — considering most of the countries we otherwise like to compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1660	I am very happy to be able to participate in this debate on the police records law, which is one of the major privacy issues. Unfortunately, it really gets too little attention, especially at a time when privacy is up and going, to say it nicely. But this is really an act, first of all, in order to strengthen privacy in areas where we believe it is very important that people have privacy, but it is also very important that we should not rely on developments in the European Union in relation to this issue, and not least prepare the basis for international cooperation, which I am very concerned about, especially the Prüm agreement. I am pleased that the representative Octay Dahl pointed out the interaction that has existed between the opposition and the position, and between the opposition and the ministry, in this case. I think it's exemplary. We should do it more. I also believe that this is part of the basis for a good attitude and a common understanding of this and for gathering around very important principles for Norway. A government council is never alone – in Stortinget you can feel alone – but there are many who have contributed to such work. We have put a lot of pressure on this law to come forward. The mother of the law – I kept saying – is sitting in the diplomatic lodge, I know, and I need to say a thousand thanks to the government for an unusually good job. I am convinced that this will also be followed up in the future, because there are important follow-up points here. We're not done with this at all, but we're definitely taking the first step today. The legislative proposal differs on several points from the recommendations made by the NOU 2003 Police Registry Committee:21, Anti-crime and privacy. Most importantly, the legislative proposal also covers the processing of data in criminal matters. This is partly due to the fact that Norway has to fulfil its international obligations in relation to the EU framework decision on third pillar privacy, but also to the fact that it is not sustainable for large parts of the police’s processing of data to be subject to any data protection legislation. I am therefore also pleased that a unanimous committee has joined the Government's proposal. The legislative proposal will therefore ensure that all processing of personal data for police purposes is carried out in accordance with basic data protection principles, such as purpose, necessity and relevance. The draft law also imposes strict requirements on the quality of the information. The fact that the information is as accurate and up-to-date as possible is important not only for privacy reasons but also a prerequisite for the effective and correct functioning of the police. In addition to privacy, the bill also respects the rights of the data subject. In addition to the request for access, correction and deletion, the data subject is also given the right to appeal against decisions taken in accordance with the law and to claim compensation in the event of damage due to unlawful processing of data. An important point in this context is that, in addition to the right to appeal to the ultimate body, the data subject is also entitled to ask an independent supervisory body for the control of the processing of data concerning him or her at any time. The rules on professional secrecy and disclosure of information are central to the legislative proposal. I don't get time to go into it. I have also noticed that the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the Progress Party have expressed concerns about the provision of information, as they seem to take into account the fact that the legislative proposal provides for more extensive access to the provision of information abroad. I would like to stress that the content of the professional secrecy provisions essentially implies the continuation of the applicable law. What is new, on the other hand, is that it opens up the possibility for a foreign authority to have access to direct searches in Norwegian registers, but this is justified by the fact that Norway will be able to comply with concluded agreements, such as: The Prüm agreement — which is very important for combating crime here in Norway. In addition to this, I fully agree that caution must be exercised in providing information to countries which are not part of the Schengen cooperation, and the legislative proposal will not entail any change in that way. Such caution is also reflected in the framework decision on third-pillar privacy, including: states that, when providing information to third countries, the Schengen countries have to assess whether the country of destination has adequate data protection legislation. Now I see the time is running out. But in the end, I just want to point out that I am very satisfied with the part of the bill that concerns background control. As an opposition politician, I have already been concerned about the developments I have seen in this field, which is that more and more areas are demanding police clearance. In this context, I have in particular called for an overall assessment of this type of background check. I believe that this law provides a basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1684	There is a debate about the Data Storage Directive, and the Right – as many have received – sits with the key on that issue. To what extent does the Council of State regard the adoption of this law as a remedy in relation to some of the arguments used for the recording of traffic data?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1689	Thank you for a very good question. I believe that it is precisely this type of legislation that we are dealing with here – but also some other legislation that needs to be in place – which are the important aspects of data storage. It is primarily about what happens when you have received the information you have requested: How is it handled? Who is it that gets access to it? Can we track who has been looking for the information? Is there any way to delete, etc.? In my opinion, this law is a prerequisite for entering into what is in data storage, but also for ensuring the practices already in force today with regard to the processing of data from, among other things. telecommunications operators. However, it is also a prerequisite for being safe and sound in relation to the issue of the Prüm agreement – we have now been signed an agreement with the EU which means that in the future we will have the opportunity to apply for it, for example. in each other's DNA records. Then we have to process that information with caution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1697	Thanks for the answer. I have a follow-up question. There have been some comments about the ICT systems in the police and the lack of ICT efforts to secure secure secure traffic data storage systems, and that it may be an argument for the Data Storage Directive to adopt this law. When can the Storting expect the assumptions that lie here for computer systems to be in place, so that the law can act like we all agree on and have intentions about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1704	It's also very much a budgetary question, and a lot of the discussion we have about the police these days is that the police have decided to give priority to holding back some resources to build up computer systems. I think that is absolutely crucial, among other things. if we are to have a new penal code in force, but it is also absolutely vital if we are to get what is in this law. You might want to bring it into force and formally adopt it too, but we're totally dependent on getting it into practice. That's why we're putting out money already this year to build up computer systems. We aim – also to follow up the challenge I received in the October Dahl post – to make a roll-out proposal during 2011. In connection with that proposition, the Ministry has entrusted other departments with a view to coordinating the issue of police certificates, which the representative asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1711	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1716	This is the last case of the Justice Committee on this agenda. One general consideration is that there have been important issues, and that we, on the part of the Committee, have gathered very much together on important and common positions. I would like to start there because the form of work and the process we have had both in the committee and in interaction with the ministry have contributed precisely to that result. We from the Right believe that this in itself contributes to a better outcome, and that we are thus giving clearer signals, especially in relation to the fight against crime. The Police Register Act includes, inter alia: general rules on requirements for different background checks to hold different jobs. The people we leave our children to, we want to have the best qualifications, so that our children are the best they can. Another important aspect of working with children is whether they are fit for work. An overall increase is behind the fact that convictions for a number of criminal offences must exclude the possibility of working with children later in life. In this respect, it is particularly important that the other specialist councils follow up on this work, as it is in their departmental departments that this should be done in concrete terms. The right will follow this work carefully. The Police Register Act provides access to background checks for foreign jobseekers. We will not be able to have an absolute guarantee that background checks from other countries provide the same information as Norwegian background checks. Nevertheless, it is important to require proof of good conduct in cases where it is reasonably practicable. There must be greater emphasis on children than bureaucratic barriers from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1727	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2102]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1745	The reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have long warned that man-made CO2 emissions affect the climate. The claim of many is that climate change will create a warmer, wetter and wilder weather. Ergo: The indications given are that this would be worse for the world, that climate change would be negative and one should avoid them. Consequently, the conclusion of the Climate Panel is that one should reduce and eliminate anthropogenic emissions of CO2 and other so-called greenhouse gases. This is a serious hypothesis that an absolute must take seriously. One must make sure that one treats the problem seriously and properly, and that one also has a leading attitude towards goods in relation to such serious warnings. Consequently, the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have a major impact on many countries’ policies, particularly in the areas of industrial policy, energy policy and transport policy. Therefore, it is also important that a political approach to the work of the Climate Panel is critical, constructive, precisely because it is so multi-stakeholder sequences that they come with. We need to ensure that we know as much as possible about the threat picture that is being plotted, both its scale and its consequences, and have a serious approach to possible measures that can be taken to avoid emissions, to avoid changes, or to adapt to the changes that may, in any case, occur. Then we also have to be able to distinguish between what is natural change, which will take place, and what is possibly man-made influence. I believe that most people in this debate, whether they are climate alerts or climate skeptics, recognise that CO2 is a greenhouse gas, and that anthropogenic emissions will affect the atmosphere. On the part of the skeptics, one says that the consequences will not be as serious as the United Nations Climate Panel says, that there are many other challenges that are greater on this globe, while the climate alerters – if we can call them that – are more at the worse end of the scale than what kind of impact this might have. There are very few who have the position that it has no exception at all. Therefore, one should avoid this becoming a debate that all skeptics are denigrators. It is also about resource use, and thus power policy and economic policy. Will one use the resources of society, to cut CO2 emissions, or will one use them on other things such as vaccinating young children, increasing food production and stopping other pollution, to mention something? That is why this is an important debate, so that one does not allow one precursor to direct all other priorities in society regardless of their durability. It is therefore important that one should be able to rely on the integrity and quality of the work of the Intergovernmental Panel. Until recently, this debate has been blocked by claiming that the Climate Panel represents consensus among virtually all serious researchers, that there are 2,500 researchers behind it, that everything that stands there is peer-reviewed, and that almost most hypotheses are 90 pst. safe and would like to do even more. Skeptical researchers, on the other hand, have been forced into silence, not by power, but by stigmatisation. For example, the party leader of the State Council at the 2007 national meeting of SV has suggested that all critical researchers have been purchased and paid. The Minister for the Environment compared those who are skeptical to the climate panel with those who allegedly deny that Hitler started World War II. And the Environment Minister has claimed that skeptics have blood on their hands. This kind of political debate has not exactly stimulated science in the future, but rather stigmatised those who have different views. That's not the way a person manages to come up with better knowledge on behalf of the world. Recently, however, this infallibility of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has cracked. The e-mail leak at the University of East Anglia in England launched a significant debate on climate science, the Climate Panel report, and not least on working methods within the Climate Panel. The e-mails revealed camaraderie among a group of researchers who were responsible for the main issues of the report. That's why this is important. East Anglia is not any university, it is actually where the main issues of the United Nations Climate Panel have its strongest support players through the Climatic Research Unit, CRU. When we then see that this group of researchers with base there, but with sources many places, deliberately trying to support each other's work, deliberately trying to keep away from critical voices, deliberately trying to influence scientific magazines' attitudes to what they publish and withhold numbers from others who will test their research, to me it's an obvious breach of good research ethics. They have also received criticism from many others, including government-appointed bodies in England. I should also like to say that this is not an argument that the Intergovernmental Panel is wrong about its points, but it shows that there is a basis for debate. This debate has definitely increased in scope and shows how badly journalists and researchers have done since the report of the Climate Change Panel was presented in 2007. It is a bit striking that many of these revelations first appeared in the winter of 2009/2010. They should have emerged continuously over the two years that have passed, not two and a half years later. Then I mention some of the examples that show that the climate panel is not always based on peer-reviewed research, and that the claim that one is 90 pst. safe in a matter, not necessarily statistically based, but a view from the persons themselves. The most famous example is the Himalayas case, where, according to the United Nations Climate Panel, the ice on Himalayas would melt by 2035. This was the 90 pst. ensure, according to its own terminology. Then it turns out that this estimate of ice melting by 2035 comes from an interview in New Scientist magazine. The interview is from 1999, and there was an Indian professor who assumed this, without having published it or had so-called peer-reviewed his views. But the WWF referred to the interview, and the IPCC included it in its reports. Now it turns out that this isn't true, even though they were 90 pst. ensure that there was truth in it just a few months ago. It's worth noting the reactions that came from, among other things. the head of the climate panel in this matter. The leader, Pachauri, responded rather curiously to the criticism in the Himalayas case, and according to the British newspaper The Guardian, he said: With all due respect, this guy went off with retirement several years ago, and I find it completely confusing that he comes out and rejects everything that has been fixed so long. In addition, it is worth noting that the person responsible for this part of the IPCC report recently explained to Daily Mail that he knew that the claim was not peer-reviewed and that he would think it was natural, as IPCC works, to assume that if they put the searchlight on it, it would affect policy makers and encourage them to do something concrete. So it was used more as a scare image than as part of a scientific process. It is also worth noting that until recently, the President of the IPCC, Pachauri, denied that he knew about the error, although it has been proven that he knew about the error in November – well before the Copenhagen Summit. So he just didn't comment on it. We have also seen examples of the fact that the IPCC has linked global warming to an increasing number of and worse natural disasters, without published research demonstrating it. One may point out that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change claimed that there was a risk that the Amazon would be deforestation by 40 pst, as a result of a change in rainfall, even though scientists did not agree to this. The report was made by WWF. In Africa, the IPCC claimed that North Africa’s crops would be reduced by 50 p.p., while the peer literature they refer to in the report does not support this. The claim was made by a Canadian activist group that referred to a Moroccan climate researcher, who once again referred to three bureaucrats in three North African countries. This is not peer-reviewed research. One can also bring with it other things, which do not necessarily go on climate science: the surrender of the potential for wave power plants is taken from the website to a commercial wave power company, but the company does not recognise the figures they allegedly have taken from this company. The potential for nuclear power is derived from the nuclear industry's own association. And there's now a critical debate about how selective one has been in the selection of weather stations when one has reduced these from 6,000 to 1,500. Has a picked the weather stations that give the results you want, or is there any other assessment on the basis? All in all, we see that the work of the climate panel is not just peer-reviewed research, as one has got the impression. Press releases, popular science articles, commercial web pages, factsheets from interest groups – especially from WWF and Greenpeace – are left as sources, but also a report from a climbing magazine is a source of allegations from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. Now I am not going to go into a debate about what politicians also contribute to alleged research, but Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre presented a report in Copenhagen that did not exactly receive good reception from scientists in Norway, but which nevertheless affects the political debate. In many countries, the debate on the integrity and credibility of the climate panel is actively taking place. People's trust has been greatly reduced, and reference to the IPCC is no longer proof that they are right in their claims. The leader of Greenpeace in England has gone out and asked the leader of the United Nations Climate Panel to leave. Therefore, I ask the Council of State to answer whether she will contribute to stimulating the scientific debate instead of stigmatising researchers, whether she will go along with the UN next time only to peer-reviewed research, and that an independent research group to review claims that are coming, to dedramatise them or to confirm them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1797	Let's hope that this becomes a debate related to the terms of research. That's how I've realized that the interpellant wants the debate. The representative of Solvik-Olsen has asked me to answer three specific questions related to the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. I'd like to do that, of course. I would like to stress that I have full confidence in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and through my answers I will show why there is every reason to trust the climate panel, even if some mistakes have been made. Solvik-Olsen asks whether I will ensure that criticism of the climate panel is channelled and treated constructively. To that I will answer an unconditional yes. In terms of procedures in my own field of responsibility, research, I would say that it is and must be a natural part of scientific practice that all work sent to peer-review journals is evaluated, criticised and, if necessary, published conscientiously and at best. We cannot accept that access to scientific channels is based on non-scientific criteria. Very well-known has not been shown to be silage like this either. The main point in this case is to keep the proportions. As far as I have been able to clean up, two errors have been identified in the report of Working Group 2 under the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change dealing with impacts and adaptations to climate change. Other inaccuracies have also been pointed out, but rejected as just that – inaccuracies and not errors. The errors concern some statements about the melting of ice in Himalayas, on which the representative was involved, and a statement about the danger of flooding in the Netherlands. These errors are no reason to apologize or to delay. However, these errors have neither a size nor a meaning that can in any way overturn or undermine the consensus in the other thousands of pages of quality-assured, peer-reviewed research results. Let me make it clear what I've found out that the mistakes are about. In interim report 2, it says about the meltdown in Himalayas, among others. at 80 pst. by the widths will be gone by 2035. It's true that the bridges melt, but it's wrong that it happens so fast. Bresmelting is mentioned correctly in interim report 1, the scientific basis, but unfortunately incorrect in interim report 2, on climate adaptation and vulnerability. In other words, the problem is not that the authors of the basic physical climate change report have made mistakes, but that interim report 2, on the effects, refers to a poor quality source instead of referring to the climate panel's own interim report 1. The second error is a sentence that says 55 pst. the Netherlands is below sea level. The Dutch Environment Directorate has clarified that 55 pst. the Netherlands is exposed to flooding, with only 26 pst. of the country below sea level. The Dutch Environment Directorate makes it clear that the error in the sentence does not play a role in the conclusion. In other words, it is quite obvious that the error cannot in any way undermine the overwhelming amount of peer-reviewed research on which the reports are based. It goes without saying that we have to do what we can to ensure that such errors do not get through and that the quality assurance is the best possible. Therefore, an independent review of working methods and processes for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports will now be carried out. The representative of Solvik-Olsen also asks if I would like to demand that grey-sonic literature be omitted from the next report from the climate panel, and whether I would like to demand that the climate panel publish the entire report at the same time. To take the greyson literature first: the word is a slightly misleading translation of the English grey literature, and the Himalaya error in interim report 2 is just related to the use of a certain type of literature. ‘Grey literature’ is a term used for reports by authorities and organisations. Typical examples are reports from the Statistical Centre, the OECD, the International Energy Agency, the World Bank, etc. The term can also refer to reports from non-governmental organisations – such as Solvik-Olsen – as the World Wide Fund for Nature, WWF, which is the source of the Himalayas example. The Climate Panel has clear guidelines for the safe and quality-assured use of such reports, and in the Himalayas example, this quality assurance gap. The authors of the text dealing with these bridges were not critical enough to the source, and the management of the climate panel should have informed about the error as soon as they knew about it. In view of this event, the climate panel itself has initiated a process to assess the need for improvement, whether it is in the procedures or in the quality assurance of the literature used. I trust that the climate panel in dialogue with the countries will improve these routines for the next time. Norway will therefore support further quality assurance of procedures and procedures. But the concrete answer to Solvik-Olsen's question is still no. I do not see a requirement for a total ban on «grey literature» as necessary or appropriate. Large amounts of valuable data are published by government agencies such as the IEA, the OECD, etc., and I think it would be inappropriate to prohibit researchers from using these types of reports. Solvik-Olsen also asks if I will require the climate panel to publish the entire report at the same time the next time. In reply, I would like to point out that, paradoxically, the interim reports of all three working groups had to be completed as far as possible at the same time, which made it difficult for Working Group 2 to take sufficient account of all findings of Working Group 1. Had they had had longer time between the publication of interim reports 1 and 2, the Himalaya error would probably have been avoided. In the plans for the next Climate Panel report, in 2014, this need is already met and interim report 2 is planned to be completed six months after interim report 1. However, I understand that Solvik-Olsen’s question is about the relationship between the summaries made for decision-makers from each interim report and the interim reports themselves. Let me therefore briefly explain the work process of the Climate Panel. The summary for decision-makers summarises the main conclusions of an interim report in the form of brief main conclusions and related explanations. The draft summary has been prepared by the central authors who wrote the main report. The summary is also part of the general consultation rounds, first an expert round and then a combined expert and authority round. In addition to the whole report process, this summary will be approved line for line in a plenary meeting. All countries included in the Climate Panel – i.e. most of the world’s countries — invited to this meeting. Usually there are about 100 countries, including all the largest countries. Discussions at the meeting include: on the form of manufacture and the prioritisation of substances. In this work, the dialogue between national representatives and authors is central. The summary shall be based on the underlying report as a whole. The central authors shall attend the meeting and approve all changes. When this summary is discussed, a list of editors to be included in the underlying reports is also agreed. This list is drawn up by the authors and also deals with changes of editorial nature and changes related to manufacturing and language usage. Once adopted, the summary will be published. The interim reports will be completed and the pressure as soon as practicable. I am now presenting – to the representative of Solvik-Olsen and, of course, to the President – the process that is going through very thoroughly in assessing the situation in these reports. It is therefore a transparent process and essentially an editorial harmonisation and quality assurance process. As I have said, I have full confidence in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The concrete answer to Solvik-Olsen's third question is also no. I am not going to demand that the climate panel publish the entire report at the same time the next time, simply because it is a better quality assurance that you do it in the order I have explained. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in such extensive work as this, errors can unfortunately occur, even if it is continuously working to avoid errors. I would like to emphasise once again that, as far as I know, there were no errors in the interim report dealing with the climate science basis. The findings of the Climate Panel do not suggest that most of the temperature increase since the mid-1900s is very likely to be due to the anthropogenic increase in greenhouse gas concentrations. Solvik-Olsen points out that objections to the seemingly broad consensus on the state of the climate have been dismissed as incalculable and stupid. I believe it is important that all views are expressed in the climate debate, but at the same time would point out that objections must be based on the same professional quality requirements as expected from the climate panel. When many of the objections may seem defecate, it bottoms up, I think, that they have not been sufficiently based on scientific material.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1843	Unfortunately, the answer was as expected, assuming that the party represented by the Council of State has been the most stigmatized skeptical voices before this debate. What I hope would be a certain admission that everything has not been as it should have been in the field of research ethics is totally rejected. I notice that the Council of State does not touch on what is really the main source of research ethics and methodology here, that is, the revelations of the e-mails from East Anglia University show that there has been extensive camaraderie. What the Council of State claims, that everyone has to lean on disciplines where research has been done, has not been very easy when the most central to climate research, on behalf of the Intergovernmental Panel, is actively trying to prevent others from publishing if they have results that are contradictory to their own research. It is also known that there has been considerable pressure on those sitting in the magazines who will choose what should be published and not published – e-mail exchanges have clearly shown. It is true that this does not allow us to prove that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is wrong, but it shows that climate research itself also has an impact side, because resources are channelled in some directions, and that some people have a very strong influence on what can be published. It surprises me that the Council of State – although I myself mentioned the specific errors that have been pointed out – chooses to refrain from dealing with most of them, but only relates to Himalayas and the Netherlands, although there are many others, as I mentioned. This applies, for example: Africa and the Amazon, where there are manifestly and demonstrably sources of error, without thereby proving or disproving anything in relation to the specific decisions or conclusions of the Climate Panel. But once again, it shows that some research or some claims have been included because it benefits the matter, rather than dealing with what is here scientific publications. When it came to the Himalayas case, as I pointed out, he who was responsible for this part took the matter with him because he thought that such a serious claim of ice melting would be a warning to the politicians, and thus it was politically motivated rather than scientifically motivated. I also pointed out what kind of skeptical researchers have received from the Council of State. Now I'm not going to try to get the Council of State to change her mind about what she's commented on – I doubt that partideology allows. On the other hand, I would like to ask the question whether she herself feels that the Norwegian scientific debate has been stimulated by the statements made by leading politicians when it is claimed that climate scientists have blood on their hands – that it is in line with denying Hitler's start-up of World War II, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1860	I suspect that the representative did not fully listen to everything I said. I also saw that he was busy talking to someone else. What I said was that there have been errors, but that these errors are not decisive for the result that the climate panel actually achieves. He chooses a line that's still about accusing those he calls the climate skeptics – some of them – of turning to the debate and not listening to what I'm saying, namely, that here's a confession: I've gone through the mistakes that have been made. The second is that the Amazon and e-mail exchanges are inaccuracies or issues such as Pachauri – as the leader of the climate panel is called – and his panel itself has taken the initiative to clean up. In the case of e-mails, it is a matter of simply destroying a number of e-mails at an early stage in the work of the climate panel and of trying to find back – reconstructing – some of what was then the raw data, which no longer existed. But no evidence has been found in that process that research results have been falsified or that research should not be of high quality. Also, e-mails from Norwegian researchers were stolen, and the editorial work in research has now gone through the case without finding that there was anything scandalous about it. The issue of e-mail exchange, Amazon, and Africa, is all the more inaccuracies that have either been taken over and cleared up, or that prove to be of no real significance. The review I have now made of the content of the interpellant's questions is a recognition from my side that it has been made wrong, and that the mistakes that have been made are being cleared up, but they are not crucial for everything, the most important thing that the climate panel shows, namely that it is necessary to act. And then we might be able to be happy in many years – unless the Climate Panel's warnings prove to be true, but we've been acting – that we did it based on the fact that it was necessary to act. At least I don't want to get lost in a discussion about what has come up, it's true or not, as long as we have procedures for it scientifically, as long as we check them, and as long as I also have my responsibility for the research, as my main task is to verify that the scientific quality meets objectives. It does so with regard to the large findings and the large lines of the work of the climate panel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1877	In my opinion, it is good that this debate also comes to Stortinget. We who are convinced that as human beings we have a serious problem that requires action, have nothing to do with trying to prevent free debate, overlook objections to the research that exists or to present any critic as a corrupt outsider paid by the oil industry. I have to say, with all due respect for the interpellant and his concerns, that part of the revelations we've got around the so-called critical research of the type Exxon Mobile that offers researchers $10,000 to write articles that undermine mainstream climate research, should provoke all those who have now become terribly concerned with the standard of climate research. Of course, serious criticism must be taken seriously. It is absolutely right that two direct errors have been found so far, which have been verified in the climate report. It's clear that it's unfortunate, mainly because it's part of the question of the main conclusions, even though the mistakes are not of such a nature or of such a scale that it means something for the assessment of how likely it is that the climate change we see is man-made. That's what's important here. At the same time, it is not particularly surprising that errors of this kind are found in such extensive material, which has been examined by a number of researchers, who have had a very critical, almost demonic, look at this. The fact that there are researchers with an agenda is quite obvious. Comrade? Yeah, sure. The research is in no way as pure and unpolluted as anyone seems to believe. This applies to all research disciplines. That is why it is good to have a review, as the UNEP has announced. The Progress Party also has an agenda that is about something other than a pious desire for more knowledge. The climate issue has taken the party completely on the bed, and for a party of people who are declared climate skeptics, a political agenda where the climate problem is at the top is bad. You have to go into the seams for research. No one is more concerned about it than scientists. If we are to talk about real climate skeptics, it is the climate scientists themselves, who do not draw the bastant conclusions, but who do so scientifically in order to be able to say something about the likelihood that climate change is man-made. Much of the content of the climate report is about uncertainty and climate factors other than CO2. An example of this is the assessment of the sun by the climate panel. It's a factor that many people have been concerned about: what it's had to say about the heating in the last 150 years. The Climate Panel assesses all, both natural and man-made, factors based on a so-called Level of Scientific Understanding. For the sun they say the level is low. So we need more research and more knowledge to establish the role of solos with greater certainty. This is climate skepticism of the healthy type. The interpellant claims that there are few who claim that CO2 does not affect the climate. The interpellant's problem is that many of these few are in his own party! It is clear that although the representative Solvik-Olsen does not like the concept of 'climate negators', it is difficult to avoid using the word of some of those who deliberately collect individual results from research that fit into a political agenda, which is about so much doubt that we are in the midst of a crisis. It is so irresponsible that I do not find words. I have to say it surprises me that many of those who are most active with criticism of the Intergovernmental Panel are not so much concerned with either peer review or the level of research when using opinions from other researchers. It is very easy and tempting to harp with welders and such, of course, but I will avoid that. But it's quite serious that things that are inflated and compared with Watergate time and time again, turn out to end up in an inaccurate reference, as was the case with the vulnerability of the Amazon, where reference was made to an article instead of the peer-reviewed publications on which the article was based. Researchers have been quite clear that their results are correctly reproduced. For us as politicians, the crucial question is whether the conclusions of the Climate Panel are convincing enough to act. The answer to that is yes. The Progress Party is the only party on the Stortinget that does not agree with it. Here we are talking about a party with a Vice-Chairman who would win elections to tell people that man-made climate change is customs, who in the last period had a Vice-President in Stortinget who used one of his last posts in this room to say that he thought it was sad to miss out on the future collapse debate where climate hysterists had to admit that they had been wrong, and who have magnification representatives who wrote paper posts that they hoped that the Copenhagen meeting would be a failure. It is clear that when this party is travelling an interpellation on the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, I can't help thinking about what is the party's actual agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1904	When the Progress Party travels debates like this, we are by no means alone. It's a movement, and it's a global recognition that there's reason to stop and ask some questions about the very bastant conclusions that the United Nations Climate Panel has drawn, and that many politicians in many countries have very unilaterally pushed to their breasts. There is reason to remember that it is well one week since we asked questions about this in oral Question Time in Stortinget. In many ways, we find the answers we received from the Minister for the Environment, far more responsive and uplifting than the research council has now produced. I quote very briefly what Solheim said: ‘There is no doubt that it has recently been detected errors at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.’ ‘It is very useful’ — and that is when the concept of the Council of State — ‘that climate skeptics detect this type of defect in the material.’ ‘UN Climate Panel is the broadest scientific consensus we can reach, but of course it must be challenged daily by people with different professional sites.’ Research is both the challenge of knowledge and the development of knowledge. It's actually better to know more than to think that you know everything. The starting point for my contribution is to raise three issues to the Research Councils. One is, as she said in her answer, that it is wrong – some have also called it cheating – in the research that underlies the climate panel. The other thing, which I do not think was mentioned at all, is that there are legitimate doubts about the conclusions, whether they are based on good or bad research, but there are thus doubts about the conclusions. The central pillars, namely that the temperature does not rise, that the police and, in addition, the ice in Himalayas do not melt, and that the sea does not rise. One of those who have pointed to the first, that there has been no global warming since 1995, is one of the professors who are in the middle of the eye for research fraud, Professor Phil Jones, who was interviewed no more than 14 days ago and who confirms that there has been no global warming since 1995. So the question is whether the Minister of Research believes that none of the findings that might be related to the fact that the conclusions should not be as sloppy as thought before are relevant to the way forward. The second is whether the Minister of Research is comfortable with the kind of research media Al Gore and Jonas Gahr Støre provide the best in the report launched in Copenhagen on 14 December 2009, Melting snow and ice. A call for action, where they have claimed the sea rises 1–2 meters. Not everyone was equally enthusiastic about the use of the research on which this report is based. I'm going to pay attention to one quote, and it's Director Ola M. Johannessen at the Nansensenteret in Bergen who says, "This bears the mark of being left-handed." He thinks the researchers behind the report refer to few published research works, and that some of the claims are directly crazy. Is it good research dissemination? My last theme is: Does the government have a research policy that has room for alternative climate theory? Or does the Minister of Research think that science based on CO2 and greenhouse effect is the only one true? There is a paradox in this, and an image in this, that the climate agreement mentions something such as that by 2010 contributions to renewable energy research and CO2 management will be at least 600 million. kr. Are you willing to use funds for alternative climate research? Does Norway have no ambition for leadership in alternative climate research, just a desire to be the world's most correct climate policy nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1934	The climate challenge will require major changes in the way we live our lives. Together, we are going to put a considerable amount of effort to make and use large resources to combat man-made climate change. Changing Norway from a high-carbon society to a low-carbon society can best be compared to a revolution. If we're going to carry out the revolution, we need to know that we're doing it because it's right and necessary. We can never be sure. You can't be sure until it's too late. Therefore, we have to base the precautionary principle and act on the current perception of the world's climate scientists. Nevertheless, the interpellant raises an important question. What does the Government do to ensure that the scientific basis of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is consistent with its objectives? The errors revealed in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports in the last few weeks and months are serious — not because they are due to the scientific basis of the report. There are none of the failures that have been identified that address the impact of human greenhouse gas emissions on the world's climate, or the fact that the climate is changing. On the other hand, they are serious because they rock the credibility and legitimacy of the climate panel. Many, including many from the interpellant party, will think that if the panel is wrong about this, what else are they wrong about? I have no reason to believe that the research underlying the part of the climate panel's report that deals with the scientific basis is based on incorrect or false information. But there can be no doubt that it would have strengthened citizens' confidence in the major decisions climate change imposes on us, if the material from the Intergovernmental Panel was better quality assured. What had also strengthened citizens' belief in the seriousness of the climate challenges and the urgency of doing something would have been for the Government to show its ability and willingness to act. When the Government chooses to postpone the climate notification until 2011, and the Prime Minister warns that the climate notification will be based on the results of the international negotiations in Mexico, it reveals the great distance between words and action in the Government’s climate policy. My claim is that the government's action paralysis in climate policy is just as serious for the credibility of the climate challenge among people as the mistakes discovered in the IPCC reports. If we are to get the impact of the major societal changes in climate change, we are totally dependent on the fact that most people have confidence in climate research, and all the measures that the Government can take to contribute to this will be very welcome, both important and necessary. There's a lot we don't know -- there should never be any doubt about -- and the research still needs to be challenged, and while it's being researched, we have to act on the basis of what we now know. If we don't, it can be too late, and at least I shouldn't be taking that risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e1951	With the exception of the criticism of the Government, the representative Astrup's post was a very good post, and I would like to thank him for that. Right now, or in two minutes, Al Gore starts his talk here in town, and it's a fate's irony to stand and discuss climate research with Arne Sortevik and miss that speech, but it belongs to the job. André Bjerke puts better words than me on what I feel when we discuss this in between, so, with the President's permission, I will read a few lines of mountain, from the poem "Over the Borders": ‘We know a saying: ‘to speak reason to a man’. It's important that people who go crazy learn about what's right. As soon as you are born, you are spoken to reason by the wise and great; by the fathers you are commanded to do as the fathers did. 'You take good sense?' said the beard, waiting for a confirmatory answer. 'Yes, be like your father!' said the father, pointing towards the horn on the wall. It's working! Reason is getting bigger and folly is getting smaller and smaller, until the dream is dead inside you, and the air lock is revealed as – air. The day you have yours on the dry as the fathers together, and you become the old one in the horn, behold, you are spoken to reason! - Is the world to be ruled by them? Then our prospects were black, if not there was a kingdom that no one has found on the map. But fortunately, there is a world where the rules count, a secret country in which there are completely different and strange laws. The holy madness will benefit the hero, for the world is right up there in Wonderland!’ That's how André Bjerke describes it very much so the human rebellion against reason in his prologue of folly. It's the same human sometimes to feel at strong internal resistance to something we know is right, as it's human sometimes to do wrong. Scientists in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are no exception. The accuracy and thoroughness of the conclusions of the Climate Panel in most cases gives no reason to defend the mistakes they make, no more than the fact that very critical practices of a set of East Anglia researchers could justify the insurrection against the senses of some climate skeptics by uncertainly suspecting a very extensive research. There is reason to wonder about the motive of the Advance Party to promote this interpellation. There is full agreement that research, and in particular research that is the basis for very important policy choices, must be correct and reprehensible. But I suspect that other motives are also at stake. The suspicion is not diminished by the fact that Solvik-Olsen’s representative has used the days after the launch of the Climate Action Programme, to establish that the climate agreement is too expensive and too ambitious. That's what the Progress Party is spending its time on. The party's sudden interest in going into research thoroughly, I think, is also motivated by a desire to greet those who deny that man-made climate change is a problem, and it contrasts with the relationship between facts and rhetoric that a normally associate with the Progress Party. I don't think there's a single research discipline that doesn't contain contradictions, professional disagreements, and -- unfortunately -- sometimes features of cheating and bad intentions. Trying to lure red-green politicians into a course where, as well as defending research that is demonstrably wrong, is a sign that the Progress Party is still in the wild on climate issues. And that – combined with the double communication we still have, including today, seen from the party's big crowd – allows the party to escape even a little longer to respond to how they will behave and how they will solve the climate challenges. They still relate to the secret country, where completely different and strange laws apply, which the representative Schwarzevik's posts now clearly confirm.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2044	The question of how to meet global warming is well one of the most important challenges of our time. And it's healthy with scepticism for research and theoretical calculations, which the interpellant here brings with it. But I want to say that there must be a limit to everything. As the Council of State went through: errors were detected; inaccuracies were found. I agree with the representative Astrup that maybe the worst thing about it is that it's in terms of weakening the trust and trust of the panel, because the actual ratio is that the conclusion of the panel is completely solid. Then, as politicians, we have to take responsibility and act on the basis of the best information we have, not just be populist, which we have recorded that the Progress Party has a capacity to be in very many cases. Several such reports have been provided under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the conclusion attached to the anthropogenic climate change is becoming stronger and clearer every time. There are several thousand people involved in the work of these reports, and there are largely different people from report to report. The fact that selected decision-makers from the Progress Party choose to ignore these clear advice and conclusions is very serious in many ways. In addition, the eyewitness descriptions of those who have actually travelled in these areas over several decades, and their practical experience, as well as the theoretical explanations of the researchers, have often been almost ridiculed and ignored by some. My question to the interpellant is therefore: What is going to happen to overestimate the Progress Party? Another challenge when it comes to the role of the Progress Party in climate change is in one way this total healing. We don't ignore that there can be man-made changes, says the party; it's just that it's too uncertain that action will be required. And when one fails to make decisions, I think it's so close up to a denial and a ignoring that one can come. The populists talk and fool. I have recorded that the party has in some way been moving in this matter with regard to what we have heard before, such as. former party leader Carl I. Hagen, who from the beaches of Spain, in the Norwegian debate, reports that he believes that man-made climate change is merely a matter of customs. We have also seen Arne Sortevik's previous letter on climate change, which gives a closer look at both nectar and laughter to the entire climate challenge. It's all about the seventh and the last time I was in, taking leadership. One must decide according to the theory and practice that always prevails. Climate change and its consequences can be likened to cancer — both have the potential for very large, dramatic consequences, both start with slight changes and consequences, but the consequences are much more accelerating in the course of the situation. Let's think about the following: You go to the doctor because you notice that something is no longer common. The doctor sends you to the hospital, where 19 doctors think it's cancer that should be treated as soon as possible, while one doctor is of the opposite opinion, that there's something that's going to go over by itself. How does one handle such a situation? My claim is the following: one sounds like the great plural, just because the consequence of that could be fatal. In the case of climate change, it is only to record that the Progress Party is well opposed to the course of action. They stick to the little insecurity, and choose to sit with their hands in jail to continue their twisting with thumbs. Then I also register a claim that the objection to the climate panel does not come up. Yes, that's not the impression you get if a leaf through Norwegian newspapers in the last year. It is obvious that the skeptics of the climate panel also have their room in the public debate, as much as the followers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2065	The President would point out that the word "fjase" is not an appropriate expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2069	My starting point for participating in this important debate is the conditions for challenging an established truth. What is the established truth that is currently the most important? Yes, it is the United Nations Climate Panel’s designation ‘It is very likely that’. And so that's not proved. No, on the contrary. We have heard several examples today about e-mails on the wrong side, e-mails that have been our chair, Himalayas that do not melt like one has given the impression of, and we also see that country's mother Gro throws herself into a debate where she concludes that it is immoral to underestimate the conclusion of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. But then it is said on the other hand that serious criticism and openness for debate should also be. But we experience it this way, we who are climate creators, that there is no special room for scepticism when it comes to this matter. Then the smallest statements and revelations of the material that have been used as a basis for the conclusion get a lot of attention, and we all understand that. It is about the conditions for those who are going to take the debate after the research has been done. It's also about a large research community that's interested in keeping the theme warm, and wants to do research on it. Within the environment, one experiences stigmatisation if one suggests scepticism of the established conclusion. It is said that the large reports are of good professional quality. Well, if they hold such a good professional quality that it's not possible to discuss it once in a while, then I'm surprised that a person able to search out them failed like a do. Finally, I'll also come up with a little bit of a statement about the Progress Party, which is the only party that uses the time to say the "very insecure" that is in this case. I have to say I'm proud to be in FrP, which can house climate creators. Let's get an open and good debate on these issues, so that you'll be able to ameliorate the knowledge of this topic. At least one can't do it in an environment where one establishes truths, and there is no room for a good and open debate. We meet members of the other party who tell us that there is no room for this in their party. Finally, the previous rule is a good rule, but it is a good rule for the over-intentioned, as much as for the skeptics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2086	I would like to welcome objections and criticism of research, including the IPCC's people. However, in order for criticism to be considered relevant, it must meet the same quality requirements as it is reasonable to provide for the reports that are being criticised. I can't see that's the case here. The criticism from Solvik-Olsen's representative is far on the way disproportionate to the inaccuracies that this is about, and in many cases it is not very well thought out either. It also shows the review of the Council of State. I'd like to add an example that's quite eloquent. The representative of Solvik-Olsen showed in his post cases with reference to the glaciers that are sinking in the Alps, where a great deal was turned up and hurled at referring to a climbing magazine as a source. However, the critics did not take into account the fact that a dozen other peer-reviewed sources were also referred to. You can't read the research as selectively as the Progress Party here does. But for the most part, we would like to take the debate on these things. Then we are also shown that the inaccuracies found in the climate report are so marginal that they do not affect the conclusions of the report. But inaccuracies shall not occur, and I am pleased that the climate panel takes this seriously. I must say that I also react a little to the translation by Solvik-Olsen’s representative of the term ‘grey literature’ into ‘grayson literature’. The translation is quite misleading. The most accurate thing would be to say ‘grill literature’. Anyway, this is a literature that has nothing to do with grey zones. There are reports from authorities and organisations, and in some cases non-governmental organisations. As a research politician, I therefore have some questions. The representative of the Progress Party asks the Council of State in its interaction that Norway should require this type of ‘grey literature’ to be omitted from the next report. I would like to know why the representative of the Progress Party believes that there should be no reference to reports from institutions such as the Statistical Central Bureau, the OECD, the International Energy Agency or the World Bank. Does the Progress Party believe that this type of report is unsuitable for research purposes? Is this, then, the general research policy of the Progress Party, or does it apply only in the context of climate change? If only in climate terms, I would like to know what the Progress Party believes is the fundamental difference between the Climate Panel's report and other research or other research summaries. I believe that more than me will appreciate such clarification of the research policy of the Progress Party. Right now it seems more than vague and little in principle. My view is also that the Progress Party is making itself irrelevant when it requires the omission of reports from authorities and non-governmental organisations in research. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask whether this requirement for the omission of so-called grey literature also means that the Progress Party is going to become more aware of its own use of business reports, figures from the Oil Directorate, etc., which are actually grey literature. Will they in the future omit references from such institutions when they themselves participate in the public debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2101	First of all, these e-mail leaks, which have been mentioned by several people. Professor of Philosophy Arne Johan Vetlesen has trodden a little about this change of words, and just about that episode, he says the following: ‘Now let’s say that these researchers were impurely cheating, which they have not done at all. However, the climate panel would then have an overwhelming scientific material from other sources, pointing in the same direction.’» I think just that statement, that very observation is very important to take into account in the debate, and it's also underlined by a lot of people here. In the election campaign, the Progress Party, not least in Uppland, said that there is no global warming. Blackevik still says the same thing, actually. But if we have global warming, at least it's not man-made,' said the Progress Party. And if it's man-made, at least it's not because of us norms, but the Chinese, said the Advance Party, because they're letting out so much more than us, per. nation. In parentheses I tried to say in a reading post: Should we not discuss it as well? head? But then I was ridiculed. Of course, this discussion had to take place at national level! But if we nordics, in spite of our innocence, were to make a contribution, the point would be that we were just going to help our polluting friends in China, remember: We nordics are innocent. But if we're guilty, it won't solve anything if we do something about it – it has to happen in China. That is the point of progress. This went so well for the Progress Party. They made a solid choice, got many representatives, while I, among other things, passed a very daunting list to get into this room. Nevertheless, I think that the Progress Party in its silent mind was somewhat troubled by the fact that professionals so unequivocally opposed the Advance Party, even though at the elections they had made people support their views to a great extent. That is why the progress point was so easily audible when the climate report was ‘taken on the peach’, so to speak. And the cheer triggered quick action, in typical progress party style, in the form of engaged text and engaged speech, where the trade card of the environmental movement and the left was duly ripped apart, day by day, over and over again. For me, this shows two things about the relationship of the Progress Party to research. Firstly, it is very well underlined by many speakers, including the Council of State, that due to some mistakes – the Council of State says two mistakes – and a somewhat clumsy, unprofessional response to this indication of the errors, the whole message is rejected. But no, there's just as fully a man-made global warming going on. If we take a broad and thorough look at this debate: the global climate research family still believes it, albeit even more powerful than ever. Secondly, there I think that some speakers have almost come to the Progress Party a little too much. In such a violent research report, it is normal – it is not the exception – that errors are detected. In the short time, with the violent work, with so many involved, it is simply strange that there have been no more errors than it has in this report. We may or may not disagree with this, but this is research. Research is always uncertain, it's always debated, it produces probability, and it never produces truth – with big S. It never produces unambiguous and conclusive answers. That the Progress Party in posts now claims that this is news, that one has suddenly discovered that this is research, is really to blow open doors. This is and has been research at all times, and so research will continue. Climate researcher Rasmus Benestad at the Meteorological Institute therefore calls what the Progress Party is doing in this debate a desperate criticism. That's why I'm asking the Progress Party: haven't you been working on these mistakes long enough now? Have we not had this debate long enough? Have we not had enough questions about this? Could it not soon be as interesting for such a large party to participate in the more real research-based debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2130	It was really a little depressing to hear especially the last few rounds of posts, because it testifies to representatives who are most concerned about trying to question motives and agendas, rather than dealing with what I actually said was the starting point of this debate. I did not try to say that by doing so, we have a claim that the United Nations Climate Panel has proven errors. What we want to demonstrate is that there have been inadequacies in what has happened, that there have been more errors than the government parties have dared to admit, and that this is the basis for stimulating the scientific debate, not continuing to stigmatise it, as red-green politicians have done. Let me remind new representatives in this Chamber that in the past period, the Progress Party has made extensive proposals to contribute to cutting CO2 emissions, precisely because we have a pre-war approach. There is no need to question agendas and motifs, as has been done. But that's obviously how the counterparty here wants to weaken the arguments that we're promoting, in terms of the ethical aspect of climate research that's been done. It is also quite wrong to claim that Per Sandberg said that he would campaign to deny climate change. What he said was that he was going to run an election campaign on an alternative climate policy, precisely the climate policy we promoted in a Document No. Eight proposals in June 2007. The fact that some people try to say the opposite again shows how to turn the debate, rather than stick to the facts. That it is the Progress Party that raises this debate is because we are the only party that dares to ask these questions. For four years, in climate debates, I have met with a claim that the United Nations Climate Panel is 90 pst. make sure that there is no reason to ask critical questions, because one is convinced. Then finally comes this debate that shows that one goes critically through research. Then the errors and deficiencies start to appear in sequence – not necessarily errors where the conclusion is that everything at the climate panel is wrong and that the conclusions do not hold up. However, one has to ask questions about a number of processes, because many of the faults, shortcomings or imperfections that arise are justified by the fact that one has an intention that this would create debate and influence politicians to act. That's not what science is going to do. Science is going to put facts on the table in relation to what the world looks like, so that as politicians we can make assessments of how we're going to deal with it. I think it is very nice that the Council of State and others admit errors, but they have not dared to ask the critical questions themselves. On the contrary, they have warned against criticism, as I have shown several times in their posts – both at their own national meetings, in debates at the main hall and in debate programmes – as they have tried to stigmatise critical researchers so that they do not get involved in the debate. Marianne Marthinsen points out that scientists are insecure. Yes, they are. We experience that all the time when we're around talking to them. So that doesn't mean we're going to ignore what they're saying. The problem in this debate, as I point out, is that we, as politicians, have been oblivious to the fact that the researchers are non-slip, not taken into account that the researchers are also insecure. That is why I again ask the Council of State: does she feel that her party has contributed to a broad debate on climate research, rather than the stigmatisation I have demonstrated?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2148	It's been an interesting debate. I just want to try to sum up and maybe also answer some challenges in the following way: A few mistakes have been admitted, and some inaccuracies are absolutely recognized, both by the Intergovernmental Panel and by all of us who are engaged and involved in this. But there's nothing to suggest that it's wrong to rock the climate panel's professional conclusions so far. But that it is a challenge for confidence in the climate panel, I should honestly admit. Therefore, what has happened is very good – both that they take a look at how they have their routines in this regard, and that they have admitted, of course, the mistakes that have been made. But if we go into it, and don't see the professionally thoughtful advice given by the climate panel, we're on wild roads. To the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I would like to say that I am proud to belong to a party that has taken this debate and these challenges seriously for many years. I am also a strong defender of the rigorous demands of research on methodology and backwardness. Research must be fair, and we must have confidence in research. But we must not pretend that research is something static, something that has been read and adopted, and that we are done with it. Research is a dynamic process, where different theories and findings can challenge and change each other. The research we see, both here in the country and elsewhere, is not outside society – some clean, free place. It's part of society, and well it is! What's important about the research we've been involved in instigating and stimulating here in the country is a recognition that climate issues may be one of the most important things we can do in research – fundamental research that is both about finding the alternatives and about providing spaces for alternative thinking and research, which is an important consequence of the climate reconciliation between the government parties and all the parties in the Stortinget, except the Progress Party. Of course, research into this will focus on further developing the solutions to the major issues, such as: The Climate Panel has demonstrated, but research should also be an activity where we do not yet know what questions are being asked. If we are lucky enough, and the work of the Climate Panel provides solid political results – which we hope, of course, in the Government – we will be able to say, perhaps, a generation with great relief, that the climate panel was wrong. Climate change did not have disastrous consequences, because we were going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2161	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over. The regulatory time has soon come to an end, and the president suggests that we cancel the morning meeting and set the evening meeting at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first case is case No. 10, interpellation of the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Research and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2198	There is a lot of interesting courtesy in the UH sector right now. Universities of higher education, colleges of higher education, and in addition, the Department has engaged in leading towards a forced marriage in Northern Ireland. The common denominator for all promotions is the desire to build stronger institutions to gain a takeover on the neighbor and to win the student's favor. For all those concerned with quality, this national competition should be welcomed. For the largest Norwegian educational institutions, what is happening is also an expression of ambitions in addition to getting a little bigger and asserting itself here in the country. The knowledge nation also needs Norway. The right has a strong sense for ambitious educational institutions that will place the list at an international level and measure themselves with the best out. Therefore, institutions should be absolutely encouraged to do so. We have good examples of Norwegian environments of competence that can match with the very highest in the world, but not all institutions in the same top class. It should inspire both politicians and the sector itself to go further, because it is important for the country's value creation and competitiveness in a slightly longer perspective that we also have educational environments in top class. Then it is our task as politicians to provide framework conditions that facilitate development and growth in cooperation with the sector. The Star Island Committee got in many ways a little unruly fate. Much of the message drowned in the debate on the eligibility of institutions and proposals for closures. Some people probably breathed out as Stortinget concluded that structural changes in the sector should be based on voluntary activity. But since then, more and more institutions have found each other and have entered into dialogue on a common future. First out was perhaps the University of Tromsø and the College of Tromsø, which is now past the merger phase. Since 1 January 2009, they have been happily married, it seems, with exciting visions of how the new, larger institution will be able to develop more attractive, high-quality study offerings. It is interesting to follow the development of the new teacher training in Tromsø, a married child of the newly merged institution who can present a range that is hardly matched by any other learning environment in Norway. Where do I want this? The aim of this interpellation is that the Storting should also be able to make its voice heard for a period of greater dynamism than for a long time in terms of structure in higher education in Norway — and because the Stortinget has no concrete case on this for treatment. It is exciting that so many initiatives are taken in the sector and that these are almost without exception coming from below. The Nordic process is such an exception, and I record that the sample report has created waves in those who feel threatened by their free will. But if we ignore what is happening in the Nordic countries, the many initiatives taken indicate that the changes are wanted and coming. Nevertheless, it is probably also a reality that the smallest higher education community in particular feels the breath in the neck of those who are larger. The strategy of allying with others to avoid slowing down aft ends well in recognizing that the option may be worse. What the end result is, the time will show. This also depends on the manner in which large institutions will meet the convergences of those that are smaller. Even I am well aware of the dialogue established between the University of Harstad and the University of Tromsø on a possible merger of the two institutions. Later, the Finnish University of Finland became part of the process, and the Narvik College has applied as an observer. When the board of directors of the University of Harstad decided in the summer of 2009, to start talks with the University of Tromsø, it was based on the fact that the University of Harstad has education and competences that are complementary to the university, and because it believes in increased development power through university status. Another central point of the board is that a merger can pave the way for the relocation and establishment of new training offers in areas where the Harstad region has top-notch environments, for example in petroleum. The aim is to create smart links that can provide a win-win situation for education and working life, where all parties will be able to reap the fruits of closer cooperation. Already at the last harvest budgetary procedure, the warnings came about more urgent times for the education sector, and now it is not a day to go without the Minister of Finance raising a warning index and asking all sectors to stand up at tougher times. When the government played out the chance of a major educational effort in the good years we have behind us, we can now fear what we have in front of us. Much of Norway’s value creation is competence-based, and then it is vital — literally — for Norwegian workplaces that the Government takes the lead in prioritising education despite tougher economic times. The right is concerned that the education sector should also operate effectively, and we should demand that the significant resources invested each year in education and research return results to society both in the short and long term. Therefore, when the initiative comes from below, the Right is also subject to closer cooperation and mergers in the higher education sector. Because we think the result is the best when aggregation is a wild development of the parties involved. In the Tromsø merger, there was a smaller contribution from the ministry – or at least it was perceived that way – after marriage, and my first challenge to the Minister of Research and Higher Education today is whether the Government is now assessing carrots to lubricate the ongoing processes. My second challenge to the Council of State is how the Government will ensure good access to higher education in a situation of fewer and larger units, as development seems to move in the direction of. The Education Committee shall examine St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, which has as a red thread to better link and interact between education and working life at all levels. At the same time, the Communication underlines a new cross-political consensus; society needs to provide even better opportunities for continuing training in a professional perspective. In addition, there is a clear expectation that our higher education institutions will contribute to regional development through their role as a supplier of skills. Although the Norway map in the UH sector may look radically different in a few years' time with regard to the number of institutions, large regions must not be depleted for higher education. The framework conditions for the sector must be designed in such a way as to build them up under quality, while at the same time facilitating universities to have campuses in several places – yes, in several cities. In particular, in the context of interaction, education and business, and in the context of continuing education and training in combination with work, it is important that higher education can also be offered outside university cities in the future. The presence of several sites will also ensure a wider interface between the education sector and the labour market to which the institutions are required to provide labour. The question is whether the financing of the sector and the institutions are well-equipped to do so. It's called "small ice beautiful," but not always, I think. Clearly, the same recognition has come to many of our smaller educational institutions when one has voluntarily approximated large brothers in the sector to see if a future together is a better alternative than life as single and small brothers. Whether we like it or not, universities seem to be bigger magnets in youth than many colleges. These include: that there is more status to study at a university. Minor colleges also experience tough competition from universities for learning skills because, naturally, through their size, universities provide more and more attractive career opportunities. Both of these factors, which less colleges fear negatively for them, could be eliminated far on the way in a university community, even though campus has a different geographic location. I am aware of the Ministry's SAC initiative on cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration in order to get a more powerful, higher education sector, and I believe it is important that the Stortinge can participate in the debate on the further development of higher education in Norway. I look forward to hearing the Council of State deepening the Government's strategy to ensure that all parts of the country have access to the sector's competences and training provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2251	I thank you for this opportunity to have a discussion with the Storting about what is going on in the higher education sector, and as the interpellant rightly says, there is currently a development in which universities and universities in different parts of the country are investigating closer cooperation, possibly also aggregation. This is happening in the interior, around the Oslofjorden, in the West and in North Norway. In Tromsø, the college and the university joined forces with effect from 1 January 2009, and since then the universities of Harstad and Finnmark have started discussions on a possible merger with the merged university. In the Nordic region, a sample set up by the Ministry of Knowledge, on the initiative of the county council, has recently recommended that the three colleges in the county be merged into one institution. These processes have speeded up since the Star Island Committee presented its NOU in 2008:3 Overall, a new structure of higher education in January 2008, but several of them were already in the process before that. The Star Island Committee proposed a policy-driven structural reform to bring together state universities and higher education institutions in eight to ten major institutions. It is equally well known that the ministry rejected this proposal, and the Stortinget joined. However, I share the analysis of the sample, which points to the need for more profiled institutions and more robust professional environments. I am therefore in favour of the higher education institutions examining on their own initiative the possibilities for increased cooperation. With the exception of the study on higher education in the Nordic countries, all the cooperation processes I mentioned are initiated by the institutions themselves. Representative Aspaker says in the interpellation: «The motivation for such consolidation is that higher education institutions lack resources for necessary professional development and fear that they will lose in future competition for students and professionals.» This is, in my view, a too unilaterally negative presentation of the reasons for higher education cooperation initiatives. Many higher education institutions face challenges, but at the same time both professionals and management see that cooperation provides greater opportunities to develop higher quality in education and research, to provide students with a wider range of courses and to become a more attractive partner for society around and for other educational institutions in the home and abroad. This can be illustrated by the fact that even the largest of the state colleges, the University of Oslo, with over 11,000 students and good recruitment, have found that they will become more professionally stronger by going with the University of Akershus. The Ministry has agreed in principle that the two colleges can be merged into a new institution, and this is now being investigated. In order to further stimulate cooperation and professional strengthening, the Government has set aside 50 million. kr in the State budget for 2010 under the heading Cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, SAK. All higher education institutions shall refer to their work with SAK, as we call this initiative, in the budgetary documents which they have just sent to the Ministry, and the funds will be allocated on this basis. So here comes the carrots that Aspaker wants. Furthermore, meetings at both the level of office and at the political level will be carried out with the relevant groups of institutions to discuss the objective of cooperation, benefits, challenges and success factors. In other words, the ministry wants to be an active co-player in the processes, while at the same time our starting point has been that any mergers should be voluntary. I fully agree with the representative of Aspaker that it is important that higher education is still offered based on research-based disciplines also outside university cities, but do not share her fear of a large-scale centralisation. The Star Island Committee indicated that there are a total of 57 permanent places of study at State universities and higher education institutions, defined as departments with permanently attached professional staff. Of course, the exact number could change over time. The point is that in Norway we have a very well-developed decentralised structure of higher education institutions that have been crucial both to make higher education available in all parts of the country and to ensure that the different parts of the country have access to the necessary skills and skilled labour. This has also been, and is, great political excitement about it. I fully share the views of the representative of Aspaker on this. This main picture will remain firm in the future as well. For example, in several of the ongoing cooperation processes, existing study sites have been used as a basis for continuing and strengthening. On the other hand, it is not certain that they will look exactly like they do today, i.e. have the same professional offer and the same functions. For example, the Nordic investigation proposes: that, where appropriate, the responsibility for all teacher training in a merged institution shall be added to the department of Nesna. This does not mean that all teacher training in the county is to be moved there, but that professional management, management and coordination of training, if any, are to take place from there. If this proposal is realized, it will mean a strengthening of Nesna as a place of study. In other cases it may also be appropriate to move businesses and employees to bring together and strengthen professional environments. Such internal changes are already taking place today. For example, in Hedmark, the university has: collected their general teacher training at Hamar and reindeered the public health profile at the department in Elverum. This reflects the fact that state universities themselves are merged institutions. Several of them had e.g. more than one nurse training at the time of the higher education reform in 1994. It would not be appropriate if these were to continue as independent entities without any form of professional coordination. Coordination can therefore take place in a number of ways, but necessarily involves the establishment of a coherent decision-making structure. Where decisions are to be taken, the Board of Directors of the institutions shall decide. Law on universities and higher education distinguishes between decisions to be taken by the board itself and decisions that may be delegated to other bodies of the institution. However, all decisions are taken on behalf of the Management Board and the Management Board is responsible for them. Under the law, the board itself determines the internal organisation of the institution at all levels. This will also apply to any future merged institutions. The question from the representative Aspaker concerns institutions which merge. If such aggregations are to have any purpose, they must necessarily lead to changes. But it's about complicated and time-consuming processes. At the merged University of Tromsø, for example, there are ongoing continued efforts to implement a joint departmental structure of the new institution. For most professionals, this means that they are part of new organisational units and have acquired new colleagues. Research in this area shows that it may take up to 10 years for the new organisation to settle, but in Tromsø the benefits of this have been assessed to be greater than the costs. New organisational structure also means changes in decision-making bodies. At the new University of Tromsø, all departments, and hence decision-making bodies, are located in the same city, but the principle that the board determines the distribution of study offerings and functions between the different departments is the same with institutions located in several locations. The aggregation of higher education institutions is a matter of national importance dealt with by the Council of State. The Government will then assess all aspects of the case and may impose conditions on the merger. One possible condition is that existing places of study should be maintained. On the other hand, which department is to take responsibility for a particular training, or from which place of study it is to be managed or coordinated, will be up to the Management Board to decide on the overall responsibility of the Management Board for all aspects of the activities of the institution. Of course, this does not prevent attractive campuses also outside the institution's main campus. I assume that institutions involved in voluntary cooperation processes do so with good will and a clear intention that all parties should be strengthened out of cooperation. By becoming part of a larger institution, campus outside the main campus can also be strengthened through access to larger disciplines and resources, perhaps also larger disciplines and new on-site study facilities and functions. Other programmes may be moved, e.g.: to be co-located with a larger environment elsewhere. In this way, the place of study can have a more clean profile, be strengthened professionally and thus become more attractive to students and as a partner for the surrounding community and business. The question raised by the representative Aspaker also addresses the need to ensure that ‘the further development of the professional professions is taken into account in meeting the university culture’. As mentioned above, short vocational training courses, such as: Nursing, teaching and engineering training, given by merged institutions — state colleges — since 1994. Two of these institutions are today universities. The merger of the University of Tromsø and the University of Tromsø shows that becoming part of a university implies a great potential for development of these educations. The new five-year teacher training in Tromsø, which is based on resources from both university and higher education, is just one – but quite a good – example of this. I therefore believe that merging between institutions, even if one of the institutions is a university, is primarily an opportunity for these educations and not a danger. Again, it is the responsibility of the Management Board to exploit this potential, but the Ministry is following professional training closely and is continuously assessing the need for action at national level, as we have undertaken for teacher training in the follow-up to the teacher education message. It is a good example of cooperation across institutions, not least in our three counties in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2290	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think that for many of the processes that are going on, it's very important which signals are sent out from this house, so that you can feel confident that you don't exist in a vacuum, but that someone actually follows and is interested in what's going on out there. I would therefore just like to stress that it is of great importance that the Storting should both be involved in development and have a word in it when it comes to such a strategically important resource as the UH sector actually is for society. The saying says, "Fear is teaching naked women to spin," and maybe there's something of the background that we're there today. The debate both before and after the Action Space Committee has shown that the Government and the UH sector may not be fully in line with the situation description of how time is now experienced. It is felt to be intrusive in many places, and many are also very concerned that you have a freedom of action that is not like it once was, and that it therefore puts a little bond on the possibilities for further development. I understand that the Government, with its initiative, SAK, is involved in sending signals that we want to move towards stronger institutions, greater professional weight. It is important nationally, but it is also important for Norway in international competition that we have that focus. The question is how best to achieve this. We can sit down on the sidelines and hope that these processes succeed, or we can contribute with measures that provide drag help, so that more people actually succeed in the conversations and dialogues that are established. I was concerned that Tromsø received some money afterwards, at least they experienced it on their own. But all those who followed the merger process know that it was very demanding, and that the merger funds had to be generated through ordinary processes while two institutions were in full operation. That was tough. So if we want to prevent accidents in the processes that are currently going on, there's a question of whether the government will consider giving something you could call a conversion grant to the merger processes that are actually going on, or to the conversations or dialogues – you're in a slightly different phase. Secondly, I also think it would be desirable for the Council of State to be even more clear on how the Government will ensure contact with and availability of higher education if we get a few fewer institutions. I was in the central service area, which has a great need for continuing education in the years to come – I mention the health sector and the education sector, i.e. the school. But in addition, we know that in general, working life has such a need. E-learning and ICT are important, but I don't think it can replace the possibility of a physical meeting, whether it's with lectures, or it's with fellow students. So the question is whether the Council of State agrees that it is not possible to imagine a possible merger of Tromsø and Finnmark, where one would end up with the fact that the Finnish University of Finland was no longer a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2307	I believe that both the representative of Aspaker and the Stortinget can be sure that government and trade union councils will follow up the institutions through the processes they are now involved in. Of course, we will, in a reassuring and correct way, involve Stortinget in any important merger decisions that we have made so far. When the Stortinget adopted the budget and including the 50 million. The budget papers began with what is now a better system for the economic follow-up of merger processes than perhaps the University of Tromsø and the University of Tromsø experienced, for it was before we established this strategy as a more national initiative. But I can promise the representative that since that, also to the institutions in the north, we have both set off and are going to grant incentives precisely to these processes. It may be in the form of scholarship positions, and there may be different forms of support, all of which know that they can now report on requests in their reporting documents to the ministry. I am concerned about this, traveling a lot around myself and following the different processes, but at the same time we have a rather important balance with the autonomy of the institutions. Autonomous institutions with their own boards are the ones which are required to take the more formal decisions. It is important for me, as the Council of State, to be clear about my role as overall national authority, which would be able to stimulate and motivate and make proposals, but it is therefore the governments of the individual institutions that are to take the final and important formal decisions. To the extent that this becomes a merger decision, it is clear that it must be dealt with by the Government. The representative Aspaker was in the working group for action rooms, which delivered its position last week. I want to characterize that report in a completely different way, because here we have actually, through a very intense but thorough work from a wide-ranging complex working group, a much greater degree of common understanding as to why it is a problem that, despite increased appropriations for the sector, there is no room for action. Here there is more than enough important tasks to tackle, not least for the institutions themselves, but of course also for me and for the Government. So I hope that by the processes that are now, we can both get a professionally enhanced education, which of course also includes good arrangements for decentralised education to maintain the necessary places of study, because geography plays a role, and as I said also a good, decentralised education for both continuing and continuing education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2320	The debate launched by the Starø Selection on a new structure in higher education has not stopped. This means that the sector is now moving from word to action. There is evidence that one not only has the consequences of the big challenges you see, but that one also sees the exciting opportunities that open up. I think the timing and orientation of the processes are good. They call for educational institutions to meet increasing expectations. They meet requirements for international quality in teaching, and research is only growing. That's good. We can't actually allow Norway as a knowledge nation to be just mediocre in this area. For various reasons, there is good reason to believe that the Norwegian level of costs will be high for quite a long time to come. Therefore, we must not lag behind when it comes to the quality of teaching and research. We actually have to be in the forefront. Norway today has a well-developed structure of universities and colleges that successfully secures access to higher education for all parts of the country. But this structure is now experienced by many who are under pressure. Some study places experience weak recruitment of students, and we see that the evaluation has shown a lack of quality in many key education systems. This is, of course, alarming. Many of the processes we are now witnessing, through which the Council of State of Aasland went through, are the result of this development. In the Labour Party, of course, we wish this welcome. It is important that institutions, in interaction with national authorities, find the solutions that can best balance the quality of education and research with access to higher education throughout the country. It is also true that more and more research is based on international cooperation. It's inconclusively positive, but it can be challenging and sometimes difficult to master for the smallest institutions and our weakest professional environments. But there is reason to believe that many institutions will be able to fill each other in an economic and rational way through a necessary division of tasks and peaking of supply, so that they meet these challenges in a good way. This will also make them more attractive when it comes to accessing students and not least access to highly qualified professionals, which is a major challenge for many institutions. Such a tipping of the supply of, in particular, the small study cities could strengthen the professional environment and make it more attractive for people with e.g. doctoral training. In the future, institutions before higher education will be the central point of regional development. This is clearly expressed through the growing expectations of the universities of contributing to the development of regional and local businesses and the public sector. Regional developments need to become even more clear in the future that they are research and knowledge-based. But these expectations are hard to meet without a higher level of competence than many of the smallest environments in the world. That's why it's also necessary for this reason, with a specialization and tipping of the supply. After the 1994 High School Reform, the geographical structure of the study cities has been virtually frozen. The ongoing discussions aimed at closer cooperation, division of tasks and, in some cases, aggregation are therefore quite natural. Let go that the representative Aspaker from Right turns on the charm and tries with verbal slang kiss to the natives from the Stortinget's pulpit. But if we interpret the representative's interpellation right when it comes to the government's intervention in the ongoing processes, I'm very questioning about it, and I'm very questioning about what is right's superior to principle policy. Or perhaps it is that the Right does not have any overarching policies in such an important area and that only the situation-dependent local policy concerns are governing? I will, as the Council of State did, allow me to remind Aspaker and Right that it is actually up to the government of the various universities and universities to define the strategic objectives and the internal organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2337	Like the interpellant, I see that there is a need to discuss SAK from Stortinget's pulpit. I do not agree that we have not had the opportunity to discuss SAK, because we have already had that in the budget, where SAK, at least for the Progress Party, was actually one thing that we tried to address on that occasion. We also have to look at the Education Line in the Committee now, which I believe should also be addressed by SAK. But what we haven't had the opportunity to discuss yet, which is a little bit related to today's interpellation theme, is the overall structure of the sector. So it's like multiple colleges are being merged into universities, many other colleges are going to be universities, and at the contact conference this year, the Council of State put out a map with a lot of snowflakes on it, and my region, Trendelag, had no snowflakes. That's because if one comes into the harbour with all these processes that were illustrated by these snowflakes, Norway will have two colleges, the Nord-Trøndelag High School and the South-Trøndelag High School. Then you can assume that most of the Olympics will also have a hold on one of them in 2014, but we have two colleges once in the future. I believe that there would have been more reason to discuss this than the actual case work that is currently in progress. We may need only two universities in Norway, but I think the Stortinget must at some point have the opportunity to discuss it, and I hope that the Council of State will come to Stortinget at a suitable time and say a little about what she and the Government think about how many universities we need in Norway, how many universities we need, so that the Stortinget gets the chance to have a proper debate on it. The option may, of course, require the opposition to promote such a case for debate. But then the interpellant said that the peculiarity of the university must be respected. So far, I agree with Bremer that discussing the University of Harstad may be OK some times, but I don't think it's the peculiarity of the University of Harstad that is important to take care of. I have been so involved in the process in Harstad that I understand that the reason that the University of Harstad has self-confidence to say that they will be part of the University of Tromsø is that they trust that the professional communities in Harstad they have built are so strong that they will also survive in a merger with the University of Tromsø. I have faith in that is right. The University of Harstad has a strong academic environment, and I think that the professional environments will be strengthened by a merger with the University of Tromsø. It is also quite right, as the interpellant says – not directly, I'm going to be even more direct – that the number of principals, directors and pro-rectors in Norwegian higher education has no decisive role to play in the quality of higher education and research. But I want to say, like the interpellant, that the number of campers is important. However, it is primarily about two things: it is about the close things, I should say, the things that are close to the municipalities, namely health education and teacher training. It is important that corruption and government take care to ensure that this type of education is available at the highest possible level of campers in Norway. Of course, this applies to Harstad, there are many of the study places in North Norway, and I could imagine saying that it should have been strictly applicable to Kristiansund. But it's at least a debate The Storting must participate in, to produce teachers and health education people for the municipalities. Then I will address the process in the Nordic region until the end. State councils point out that the process that is now taking place there is a little bit specific. It's got to be. I note that the University of Narvik has not necessarily concluded that a merger with the College of Bodø, possibly the University of Bodø, is the right way to go. Then I hope that the Narvik High School and the Narvik High School Board will have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they will stand alone, whether they will be merged with the University of Tromsø or whether they will be merged with the Nordland High School, possibly the Bodø University. I see the time is running out. I have to say that I am a little bit curious about the Right approach in this matter. The last time we discussed academic freedom in this room, the Right was clear that it should be total and final, and that the rulers should have full freedom to rule – but not today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2352	Let me first say that the last speaker's record from a previous major debate on academic freedom was very pointed. But that's really not what I was going to say. In this case, it is quite clear that we have a structural change in the higher education sector in Norway, a structural change that can have major consequences in the long term. Then it is a bit funny that the government is not so very clear to the Storting regarding this. There's very little mention of these questions in the Education Line, so St.meld. No For 2008–09, which is currently being treated in the United Kingdom. Only a short section has been sacrificed this important matter. It may seem that this is a process of a certain democratic deficit, at least from the point of view of the Storting. This interference is therefore useful and important. The challenges for the higher education sector are great. The action space committee, as mentioned earlier, has illustrated this very well. There are also a number of intermittent sectoral requirements. The government often shows great willingness to rule in any case parts of this field, including. the field of research, on which there has been a previous debate in Stortinget. However, with regard to the structure of the university and higher education sectors, both the Council of State and the Department show a somewhat waiting attitude. I don't want to say that it's necessarily wrong, but at least we see a different attitude to this issue than to others. The Ministry rejected the recommendations of the Stjernø Committee, as the Council of State said in its statement. In addition to scarce references in the Education Line and in the State budget of the year, the Stortingen is not involved in these discussions. The State budget states that the Ministry will return to the process of allocating funds. So this is going to be 50 million. kr as mentioned by the Council of State, which has been allocated to so-called strategic SAK funds. My question to the Council of State will be how the Ministry will come back to the process of allocating these funds, as indicated in the State budget. The Council of State also said in its statement that the Storting could be safe from getting involved in these issues. But in addition to this interpellation and, as I said, very scarcely mentions in important documents, it is a little unclear – for me at least – how the Storting should be involved. Perhaps the Council of State can go a little bit more detailed about that in its next article. Mr Bremer of the Workers' Party called for Højre's overall policy in this area. It's a little funny, because it has to be a lot more important that we realize what is the Government's overall policy regarding the structure of the university and higher education sectors. The council said in its statement that she agreed very much on the contents of the Starø Committee report, but since she also, along with the Government, rejected the recommendations of the sample, it is today a little unclear what the Government really wants. SAK funds, the 50 million, are to be allocated according to both professional and political judgements, according to the State budget report. So then I hope that the Council of State can say something more about what policy assessments will be used for the distribution of these 50 million.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2371	Higher education and university Norway are moving — for different reasons and with different purposes and with many involved. There are many who have a lot to do in such processes. That is one of the reasons why this is a complex and exciting debate. One of the joys of these debates, these changes and these movements is that we see that municipalities and county municipalities, and not least business and local and regional communities, are so active. All of Norway has now discovered the importance of higher education and research for good social development. We who spent the best years of our lives fighting for a governance reform – and lost – learned, among other things. a region per year. definition is a geographical unit or society with its own institutions for higher education and research. Thus, in one of the main reasons why this change is now taking place so strongly: it is linked to the concept of regional development – or rather better worded: the aim of much of what is going on – is for many people to get involved now, in municipalities, municipalities and businesses – regional development, while the means of action is to strengthen higher education and research. In order to achieve this, there needs to be growth in student numbers and research. This disrupts and complicates the debate that we have in this area, precisely by giving us a new reason in parallel with the fact that we have brought in new actors. But getting these actors – municipalities, county councils and business – is unparalleledly positive, in my opinion, in terms of ownership and understanding of higher education and research in our society. And then they bring fresh money into the process. This is good from below and up work. But that makes our image more complex. Everything was so much easier before, as most of it was a relationship between a department and a given and stable number of universities and colleges. But I'm glad it's now a little bit more chaotic, that there's some more movement. There is great force in the mobilization of municipalities and county municipalities plus others. And I definitely mean – and we're going to notice – that everyone who's now behind that kind of mobilization knows that it's not possible to slobber with quality. For not least all those involved in higher education and research outside university cities know that they have to compete in the quality field. Quality — not least what is relevant or useful for local and regional food and social life. This is where the districts can compete, because the normal situation is, as many people have experienced, for both students, researchers and research money, to choose a big city, so the districts must be particularly committed to quality in this respect. Then there has been a dominant and slightly problematic discussion related to university development, as Tord Lien points out correctly. We also have to rediscover the colleges and think about what kind of role they're going to play in the future. So it's kind of disturbing that what's a university and what's a college, that's not a certain term that we've chosen, but something that we've defined. But I think – and that is my clear starting point – that per cent. Today, government and growth in close cooperation with the sector have opted for a good definition, which is appropriate to professional strength and breadth, at what is a university – both for Norwegian conditions and in relation to how the term is used abroad. Furthermore, I think it is wise what lies in this SAK approach, that there is primarily a question of professional qualification. It is not a political map to be drawn and adopted here in the Chamber. We could have done it, as an element of this already mentioned powerful regional form. But the regional form has been said that we don't want it. Then it's also true that it's the SAK approach we're going to use – that's where the wise grip is taken. So it's understandable – I guess I've already been into it, and it was also the interpellant in a good way – that it's easy to see that there are many who are easy, or maybe even very nervous in these changeable times. It's always safest to sit still in the short term. Here you can choose the game structure, where quality can be at stake. It's problematic, I think, for both us magnification representatives and governments, to sit and feel more like spectators than ruling. But as I said, I think it's a good idea -- let's take the chance of being fit for returnees, but lubricating the exciting processes that are now going on, and then we'll see a little bit of what's going to happen. So far, there's a lot of evidence that that's right, what we see is going on around. Then I'm going to come up with a little bit of what I think is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2390	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for the interpellation, and for the possibility of a debate on this important topic. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer she gave. The centre party is aware that there are merger talks between colleges and universities for the purpose of mergers. The motivation for this is that the colleges hope that a merger will help to strengthen them in the competition for both students and professionals, thus strengthening their position. Such merger talks shall take place, inter alia: between the University of Harstad, the University of Finnmark and the University of Tromsø, as the interpellant mentioned in his post. I can also mention that I myself was a member of the university board in Harstad until the last fall of the election, and I have followed the process closely. The Central Party supports this initiative, and we share the views of the University Board of Harstad when they show in their decision that the purpose of these merger talks is to strengthen the University of Harstad's future positioning in the landscape of research and higher education. The Management Board further points out that they base their discussions and assessments on developments in the sector and on an overall societal perspective. I would also point out that the University Board of Harstad in its assessment indicates that the development of the sector makes it natural and necessary to assess closer integration with a larger entity, and that they therefore regard the University of Tromsø as the most natural fusion partner. After the college board in Harstad took its decision on merger talks, the board of directors of the Finnish University of Finland also decided to start a process to clarify the framework for the Finnish University of Finland to participate in such integration. These processes aroused considerable attention, and the background for them to be carried out at the level they are now is precisely that they come from below. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to stress the importance of maintaining local leadership at higher education institutions, even after a merger process, as well as strengthening the offer of studies at higher education institutions. It is important to follow this process closely. I also feel confident that both the Council of State and the Government will do so. It is of central importance that universities also share this view and have the same starting point in a merger process, and that this is seen in the same way — both from universities and from universities. Furthermore, it is important that the higher education sector is not depleted and centralised, on which the interpellant was involved, in view of the fact that higher education also has a very important role to actively facilitate the development of nutrition and society in its regions, as well as universities. Another element of which the Centre Party is very concerned is that such merger processes must be locally determined – they must come from below. This also means that we need to secure financial instruments that provide the basis for higher education and research-based disciplines in today's higher education institutions. I am pleased that the Council of State in its statement highlighted this, and I am absolutely sure that the Government is committed to following this up in relation to financial instruments. The Centre Party is committed to facilitating a forward-looking commitment to higher education and ensuring research-based professional environments. This applies both at universities and around today's colleges. These are key skills providers in the future competence society that we build. The Centre Party believes it is important to facilitate social and economic development across the country and to promote innovation and entrepreneurship. Higher education is important in order to achieve such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2418	I would like to thank the interpellant for wanting to lift this up on the grand scale, sail if I think that the debate has become a little strange and a little out of focus – and maybe I'm going to contribute to what I too, I don't want to dismiss it. What's a big challenge for us, and it's a challenge when you have a majority government, is that we often deal with documents with a great deal of naturalism, while what's often conflicted, or big debates in environments, doesn't necessarily end up on our table in the Biggest. It's a little bit in the dynamics of the majority government, and it makes the big debates maybe not as exciting as they should be. There are two aspects I want to raise, which are not mentioned so often. We see that the issues associated with the Star Island Committee are very real. If you do not agree with the conclusion, the problems associated with the challenges you wanted to solve are very real. That is the development we see, with increasing specialisation and with an increasing need to get research-based knowledge out also of professions to which we have traditionally not linked it. A nurse today is expected to have a completely different competence when he gets out of work than a nurse did 15 years ago. A teacher today is also subject to completely different requirements. You have to deal with new knowledge, new professional development and new skills, which are completely different from what it was before. But on the other hand, it is important to remember that the decentralisation of our education system is the very core of our well-being. The fact that we have managed to spread knowledge across the country in the way that lies in our decentralised structure has led to the high education of the entire population that we have in Norway, which is the basis for our well-being. Then we have to remember that in the future that challenge will not be smaller, it will become bigger, because in the future it will be increasingly required that we fill our knowledge along the way. This means that you need to link job and skills enhancement to many more professional groups, at many more stages of your life. It will in turn create great expectations for a decentralised structure. So what we have to remember in our drive to create research-based knowledge is to increase competence and create a quality environment. But then we have to remember that the decentralised structure has helped to create the well-being and the level of knowledge that we actually have. That's something we have to try to keep going. Then it's obvious that no one can be good at anything. Developing good expert environments — our excellent settings — is not necessarily in conflict with having a decentralised structure that preserves the competence of the population. So I think that the challenge of dealing with the issues that are promised here today is maritimely related to funding that gives room for change. The left added 300 million. extra in SAK funds to stimulate this type of change. A few days ago, we had a big debate about the Nav and Nav transition, which was a huge change in the public sector. One of the lessons of the Nav conversion is that converting costs money. In the private sector, large changes and major reorganisations are something that an enterprise expects to cost money that they have to save in afterwards. The public, as the Council of State probably knows, well represented by the Ministry of Finance with its logic, believes that it is necessary to save money in the reorganisation in order to achieve the tightening up of the budget. I think you have to admit that large conversion processes cost something, and the expected savings do not come into the conversion, but actually after the conversion. So it's a challenge for the Council of State to try to get that recognition also into the darkest times of the Ministry of Finance, that if you're going to be able to make a transition that leads to both a quality improvement and an efficiency improvement, you need to have room to make that transition in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2438	I would like to thank you for the debate. I have to say that some of the posts have been of a bit strange kind, where I feel that you almost insinuate that I have another agenda to record this interpellation than what I actually have. I have made my first post, and that is what I think about the matter – and the Right believes about it – and then I find it a little difficult to sit here in the hall and feel that the motives looked until those degrees were drawn into doubt. There can't be anything wrong with starting from an example you know. It is now the case that, in the case of merger processes, North Norway has actually been the most advanced in this context. You go in front there. You've merged a university and a college, and you're now in a phase where you might have to merge the merged university with one to two new colleges. And then it has to be allowed to use an example like that without even having to listen to it from this pulpit. So it's my opinion that a lot of big issues that are dealt with in the Storting are completely dependent on us having an education sector that works, to make sure that the goals that we set ourselves in other contexts are actually being achieved. I mention the quality development of the school in terms of what is to be done in relation to teacher training, I mention child protection, I mention the health care service, I mention the care of the elderly – yes, the whole cooperation reform stands and falls with the fact that we are able to achieve the development of competence and good interaction between all the actors involved in this context. Then I haven't mentioned the working life that is going to create the values, which are going to ensure the future well-being, and which also depends on us having educational institutions that can fill up with the skills that are needed to get the big math to go into it. Norway is different geographically linked, and I believe that it also requires different approaches in achieving the objectives we set ourselves in key areas of society. I think it's important that we don't go on quality chords here, but I don't think there's any contradiction between decentralised education systems and at the same time having high-quality education. We also have NOCUT as a rice behind the mirror, which can both recognise and separate if the education and education environments do not meet their objectives. So I've noticed what the state council says about economics, and I totally agree. I also think the best results of such aggregations are going to be obtained if the aggregation is lost by all parties. But then it might be a little funny to see what's going on in Northern Ireland, and I would like the Council of State here to say that you'd like to use some whips in Northern Ireland to the colleges there when it comes to getting their way about what kind of structure you want to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2455	I also thank you for the debate and will try to deal with some of the challenges I have received from several speakers and at the same time give my feedback on the situation. When it comes to setting up the Starø selection, I think everyone agrees with the analysis. Many of the proposals are also good and have been followed up or being followed up, for example. having an excellent centre of education or education and not as previously only for research. But the concrete proposal for a more top-down coercive merger of institutions we scrambled, and it also brought up in the Stortinget. The SAK concept, i.e. cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, was first launched in St.meld. No 30 for 2008-2009, Climate for Research. The concept was introduced there, and it has been followed up in the big news about the education line. Of course, in addition to the two communications to the Grand Duchy, it is mentioned in the budgetary documents. I think it's going to be the right place for the government to take the SAK funds in the future as well. The cancellation cannot be a case handler for these 50 million kroner. It has been accepted that the aim is to stimulate professional strengthening and coordination, and that is primarily the professional strengthening of cooperation. Of course, this happens in close contact with those involved, namely those institutions that have received a very clear message and are not uncertain about what they report on demand, so here I think it's a good process. To the extent that there may be something that can be called political aspects of this, it must be to ensure a good geographical distribution of these resources. But we have many good suggestions and good actions in the various places around countries where such processes are in progress. As far as the Northernland process is concerned, I can reassure the representative of Aspaker that there will of course also be the governments who have a decisive word. We've got an exciting investigation that's being discussed violently. I have good contact with the three universities in Northern Ireland that are affected by this, and I am in contact with the rest of the system in North Norway, both in Troms and in Finnmark. So we have conversations with both Nordland, Troms and Finnmark in that context, but there's not going to be any compulsion in this. I hope that the processes we have now can lead to sensible solutions in terms of enhanced professional content and improved quality. That's what's meant. Then I think we all have to strive in these processes, which everyone thinks are positive, that we keep a diversity, that not everything should be the same throughout the country – also here. Keeping diversity means having both specialisation and breadth, not least in professional training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2468	That being the case, it is no. 10 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2482	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2490	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2498	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen, on behalf of the Party of Progress Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2526	The President will then bring up proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain and further develop today’s Centre of Competence at Starum and maintain Vagle clay in Sandnes.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2582	During the debate, the representative Trine Skei Grande put forward two proposals on behalf of the Left. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2623	During the debate, the representative, André Oktay Dahl, put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to examine the organisation of the system of site surveys in other countries, including the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights. The Grand Duchy asks the Government to submit to the Grand Duchy its own case an assessment of the implementation of a mandatory site of death investigation in all cases of sudden and unexpected death in infants and young children not later than during the first half of 2011, so that the Grand Duchy can assess on its own basis its constitutionality.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2656	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they now want to support the position subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2671	During the debate, the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2686	The President will alternately vote between these proposals and the Committee's position. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2710	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 4, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposals Nos. 1-3 has been inserted in the setting on page 17. Proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e2742	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e4076	It is first voted on Chapter 2, which deals with the protection authority. The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it. After that, Chapter 1 and Chapters 3 to 13 shall be added.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e4093	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e4103	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e5566	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e5576	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e6798	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e6808	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: No voting theme is available for 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e6818	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-04.ana.ud1050e6830	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
