ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e95	The representative Anna Ljunggren, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The Group of the Party of Presidents of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) holds an application for permission from the representative of Mr Karin S. Woldseth on 16 and 17 December to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Venice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of the Hordaland County, Torkil Åmland, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e118	Torkil Åmland is present and will take the seat. Sylvi Graham will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e123	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on the practice of granting allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e128	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e146	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e162	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e178	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to 3 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e185	In the proposition of changes in the state budget for the current year, the government reports on several redeployments. The most extensive are linked to the cap. 2440 and 5440, which relate to the state's direct financial involvement in the petroleum industry, and to Chapter 1833 CO2 treatment. When it relates to its direct economic involvement in the petroleum industry, the changes concern reduced investment needs, including: due to deferred drilling and expansion investments and linked to a sum of nearly 5 billion. kr. The government will report to the Storting at the time the proposition is made, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the investment image in the quarter that we're in now. Operating income on cap. At the same time, 5440 items 24.1 and 24.2 are clearly deadjusted. When it relates to cap. 1833 CO2 management, progress has been made in the project leading to significant changes and reductions in expenditure in the 2010 budget. Also on the cap. 1810, 4810, 1820 and 4820, and what goes on in NVE facilities, and in the chapter of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, there are changes, and they're done right in the proposition. In the handling of this matter within the Committee, the majority of the amendments are notified by the government and are behind the government's proposals for redeployment. The opposition batch points to its side to the reduction in cap. 1833 entry 21 on CO2 handling and has comments to that effect. In addition, a collective opposition also points to the size of Enova's housing support, and I assume that representatives from the opposition party, if they think it necessary, do more thorough work for their comments. For the Central Party and the Government Party, both progress is under cap. 1833 CO2 management and the supplementary electricity saving scheme important issues. When it comes to the first of these, the Council of State has repeatedly pointed to the technological challenges of the project. Technology cannot be decided in this room, but must be built and developed step by step, and we believe that the redeployment that lies in the matter we have here is just a sign that there are technological challenges and not lack of economic resources that are the main challenge attached to these projects. When it comes to electricity saving in the household, there's one thing we need to focus on in the future, for which I believe that a joint committee has an commitment, even if one is not bid to vote for the proposal that the Christian People's Party has on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e212	In this proposition, the government proposes to reduce the appropriations for CO2 management in 2010 by a total of 400 million. kr. The appropriations for full-scale CO2 management in Kårstø will be reduced by 40 million. kr. The appropriations for full-scale CO2 management in Mongstad will be reduced by 180 million. kr, and the appropriations for the work on transport and storage of CO2 are reduced by 176 million. kr. All reductions are justified by changes in the propulsion plan and reduced the need for means of investigation. Reduction in CO2 management appropriations at the end of the year has become a yearly tradition with the red-green government. Time-based promises on the cleaning of the gas power plant at Kårstø by 2009 and the moon landing at Mongstad by 2014 have been scrapped. Decommissioned CO2 management funds are withdrawn on the basis of modified progress plans. In the 2011 government budget, there is no indication that Kårstø will be cleaned at all. The cleaning project has been put on ice until further notice. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about the signals given in the State budget, about the danger of further releases of full-scale CO2 capture and storage in Mongstad. The reason for Christian People's Party's concern about the lack of clean-up on Kårstø and Mongstad is that it undermines the objectives of the climate agreement. The efforts to meet already ambitious targets for national greenhouse gas emission reductions are now even more difficult because of the need to compensate for increased emissions from gas power plants. In the Christian People's Party's 2011 alternative budget, we propose to allocate 55 million. kr to resume the tendering process for full scale CO2 capture and storage on Kårstø. In St.meld. No 37 for 2008-2009, The Norwegian Marine Environment Administration, the Government announced its intention to initiate an opening process for petroleum activities at Jan Mayen for the purpose of granting extraction permits. When the management plan was discussed in Stortinget, the Christian People's Party opposed the organisation of petroleum activity in this vulnerable area and asked the government to stop the opening process of petroleum activity outside Jan Mayen. Jan Mayen is a vulnerable natural area where the difficulty of operating meaningful oil protection is even greater than in the possible expansion of the controversial sea areas outside the Lofoten and the West Sea. In this proposition that we are now dealing with, the government is proposing to empower the Oil Directorate to conclude a contract with a seismic vessel on the geological mapping of the marine areas of Jan Mayen. In this context, the Oil Directorate will be able to incur commitments in excess of the allocations of up to 110 million. kr. We want to vote against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In the 2010 state budget, the government proposed to allocate 40 million. kr under the grant scheme for electricity saving in Enova-controlled households. The Christian People's Party already knew that this amount was too small, and proposed significantly increased appropriations. The queue for support from this scheme is long and the need for support far exceeds the resources put at the disposal of the government. According to an article on the website E24 on Thursday 2 December, Enova has up to 200 requests for power savings every day, but the support quota for Norwegian homes has been used up a long time ago. All funds allocated for 2010 are available. The Christian People's Party believes that subsidies for electricity saving in households should be significantly increased and therefore believes that some of the released funds from CO2 management work should be able to be re-disposaled to this field. That is why I am promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e256	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e259	I will also touch on the same three themes that have been raised. First, Enova: One should use this case to ensure that Enova got a little more freer powers to dispose of the capital they own after all. There is not a blank in all Enova’s boxes, but there is a blank in the box that relates to household support in relation to energy saving. Now there's a time of high power prices, and then there's also automatically an increase in awareness of most people to want to do something about it. On Enova's website, a small yellow nonstop figure with a red flag first met, saying that the safe was empty. The figure was removed, but the realities were not changed for that reason. So you're tricking people into thinking that there's no money here. But because one is now so close to the next fiscal year, one says: Search anyway. One should give a handshake to most people by making it a little more flexible for Enova, so that they themselves can dispose of the funds where they think it makes sense. I wish the government would come along with that signal. I would like the Minister of Energy to take the floor in this debate and comment on that. Then it's Jan Mayen. For us, it's okay that money is allocated to map the areas, and it's perfectly fine for us that there's a concession round on Jan Mayen. But let's not seduce anyone into thinking that this is the offensive oil policy Norway needs. It's throwing blues in the eyes of people pretending this is important for Oil-Norway. This is awfully far ahead in time, if there are resources there. I ask myself the question: when a protector Jan Mayen, so that one is not allowed to set up an outdo there once, how can one then be allowed to build an oil installation and possibly use himself to process some oil resources out there? There's no one I've talked to in the oil and gas industry, who thinks Jan Mayen is very exciting. However, I record that the Minister of Energy has said that this is an offensive effort, and then I start to fear that this is at the expense of any activity in the Lofoten and the Vestralen and in the new Norwegian regions of the Barents Sea. The Progress Party will not be in it. We support what's happening on Jan Mayen, but a premise and a premise is that it doesn't go at the expense of the more truly attractive areas along our coast. That's the case with CO2 clean-up. I registered that the committee leader said that technology cannot be adopted, it must be developed. It's a wisdom that I share 100 pst. The party of progress has had an election slogan for some periods ago – and it is a principle we still have: “The future is not adopted, it is created.” The problem is that it is only this government here that had a move, a scheme and a decision to adopt a technology within a given year. One should clean Kårstø in 2009, one should clean at Mongstad in 2014, and once we have come to the realization that this is not something that politicians can adopt, I should also like us to say in this context that therefore we should not stick to only Kårstø and Monstad as possible full-scale CO2 cleaning sites in Norway. We need greater flexibility. If there are other actors who, at their own expense and at their own risk, develop technologies that prove to be more useful than the one the government's project has acquired, we must make it possible for the State to contribute where they consider it appropriate to build them in the Kingdom. Then it's really to point out that at Melkøya, Hammerfest Energie and Sargas have previously joined forces and applied for a concession. Industriekraft Møre talks about having actors who want to be in and clean up the Fräna, but we know that today the government says they won't provide any kind of support. I think that's very regrettable, because if the goal is to develop CO2 clean technologies, it must be a more important goal than for the government to develop Mongstad cleaning. We should be more principled in the approach and say that those who can deliver finished CO2 cleaning that works will get part of the economic pot, not that it should be reserved for Mongstad – cost what it will – without any guarantee that it will work. So there I would also encourage the Minister of Energy to give a little more positive signal than what we got from the Prime Minister yesterday, when he rejected any alternative to Mongstad. The Monstad Presbytery has become too big for the government. I hope that the Council of State in this debate may be a little more open, so that it is technological development as such and success that is the most important thing, not that Mongstad is the place where it is being conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e286	I have some brief comments on the themes that are now listed, partly around CO2 and partly around Jan Mayen and Enova. First, what the representative Hemdal raised related to Kårstø. The reality of the matter is that we have a very demanding project in Mongstad, which I think everyone in this room is agreed to require both financial resources and technology development in the future, which we will be very pleased with when we have implemented it properly. What the government has said about Kårstø now is not that it is not relevant to view Kårstø as a climate action in the future, but that it will be assessed in the context of climate communication and the follow-up to climate change. Let's see where Norwegian emission reductions are going to come from. Then I've previously announced that I'm coming to Stortinget with a full review of the Mongstad project. In that is exactly what the committee chairman well described in his opening statement here now. There is no doubt that what we are doing in the capture and storage of CO2 is technologically demanding. It is simply technology development that a lot of the project is about. We see that it's learning along the way. We see that we are getting new experiences along the way. I am concerned that we will ensure that we have further progress that takes account of it, which is the safest way to get the technology in place, get clean-up in place and through it helps us to get CCS as an appropriate technology beyond the borders of Norway in the future. So a little bit about Jan Mayen. The representative Solvik-Olsen took up little interest and long-term process around Jan Mayen as a theme here now. I haven't, in any context, let alone stress that Jan Mayen has a long-term interest in himself. I believe it even appears in the press message that was sent from me earlier this week. The 15-year perspective that I've stated is at least the basis of Jan Mayen, and the opening process that we're in now is no argument against doing what we're doing now. Long-term sustainability has been a premise of the oil and gas business in Norway for the 40 years we have been doing it. We see that the Norwegian base is also descending in terms of findings, especially oil. We also need to work on areas, projects, which are there in terms of activity and possible findings. So I think the Jan Mayen project is an important project. It's quite right, as Solvik-Olsen's representative says, that the interests of the companies are not big around this now, but just by starting, just by getting more knowledge of the area, we can create that interest. I don't think there's anything strange or anything wrong with the fact that the companies are currently waiting when we know so little about the area. But at the moment that one sees that the area is interesting, also the commercial actors will review it and hopefully take an interest in the area. In the case of Enova, I do not agree that what is now happening around household support is to trick anyone. We're now in the middle of December, and we're talking about 14 days for a new fiscal year. To inform potential users of Enova’s household support that it is a good idea to apply, that there is a new pot for use in a few weeks, I believe is information and not trying to trick anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e305	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1980]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e321	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e330	In the vote, the minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, makes the same proposal as in Document No. 8:147 for 2009-2010, to ask the government regularly to promote a growth report on the state of energy in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which deals with expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies, strategies for investing in the development of new energy sources and the status of Norwegian international energy obligations. There is no doubt that we need to see the energy field in the context of climate challenges, industrial development, regional differences, power balance, network deployment needs, issues about technology opportunities for new renewable power generation and seeing Norway as an energy nation also in an international context. The exchange of power with other countries is one of the points that one has to include in assessing our energy policy in the future. One must also clearly take into account the advantages of Norway in the power exchange with other countries, that we have a great deal of water that can be stored, and thus contribute to a stable power exchange with other countries when wind and sun vary production. In short, we must pursue a holistic energy policy. That's also what the government's goals and policies are, as it is. has been drawn up in the Government Platform, Soria Moria II for 2009–2013. The goal is for Norway to be an environmentally friendly and world-leading energy nation. This means that the environment and climate targets will also lead to the scope of production and that it is necessary to try to delimit the growth of energy consumption. These objectives, and this policy, are also led by a number of measures taken by the government: we have increased new renewable power generation. Enova is strong. The same applies to NVE's capacity. We have a new law on marine energy, which opens up new opportunities for new forms of energy in the years to come. The construction of new key powerlines, such as Sima-Samnanger and Ørskog-Sogndal, is under ban. The rather recent agreement with Sweden on common green certificates, which will apply from 2012, is now in place, which will lead to a major redevelopment of renewable energy. There is also a need for increased escalation and investment in energy efficiency, which has been led by the government. It is also part of the EU's renewal directive, where Norway is now involved in negotiating what obligations we should assume in that context. The Minister for Oil and Energy, in a press release dated 13 December, included: notify that there will be a wide review of the power and energy balance. In this context, an energy selection will be reduced to look at the long-term evolution of the power and energy sectors towards 2030 and 2050. The selection shall determine and assess the energy sector very broadly – production, consumption, network deployment and power exchange with the rest of the world. I therefore do not share what is claimed by the minority here, that there has not been a single government document that gives the Storting the opportunity to discuss the challenges of energy policy in a superior way for many years. A full review of the government's energy policy is presented to the Stortinget, among others. in the annual State budget. In addition, state councils in the press release are now notifying that an energy message will be provided. I now expect the Council of State to do something for it in a later article here today, but I just want to mention that the basis for this message is the work that the Energy Selection will put forward. This is very good, and thus Stortinget will have a wide opportunity to discuss future policies and strategies in the energy sector. I've recorded that the opposition has repeatedly called for it, so I expect them to be very satisfied with this. Then I take up proposal No. 2 [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e353	Then the representative Torstein Rudihagen – overtime – addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e356	Let me start by taking up the opposition proposal. In this case, a lot of time could be spent illustrating some paradoxes in energy policy, but first let me start by showing what kind of paradox it is that the Storting wants to meet in a situation like this. So here the opposition is promoting proposals where we are asking for an energy message – periodically – if it is every year, every two years, every three years, and we are quite open to discussing that. With so many international commitments now given to Norway by means of the EU's renewable directive and green certificate, it is quite natural that we are regularly discussing whether energy policy is in line with the objectives and obligations we have, to see if the Storting needs to correct a little bit, or whether everything is going well. But when the Storting had to deal with it in the committee, the red-green representatives said no, we do not want such a proposal. When the committee gave its opinion on 2 December, therefore, the reaction of the red-greens was not that one should attach the proposal to the Minutes. The reaction was that no, it is ‘not acceptable’ – that is, the proposal is rejected, you don’t want anything like that, you don’t want to discuss it. That is what it means when you say in a vote that the proposal is 'not accepted'. So on Monday – that is, after the committee has rejected the proposal we are now discussing, there is an inference from an energy minister in this Kingdom that yes, an energy message, we should have! Then all of a sudden the red-green representatives in this room are okay. Then this proposal is to be annexed to the Minutes, because now the government itself has notified that it will. Where is the independent idea of the red-green politicians when they go from rejecting a proposal to suddenly cheer for it, because their own government does it? It just shows that this magnificence has no significance for government policy. The government does what it wants, whenever it wants, and the red-green parties on the Storting do what they're told from their government. That's what I think to show contempt for this hall. I think it is rather embarrassing to hear the case rapporteur in this Chamber stand and talk about the matter as he has done here. As I said, many things are going to commit Norway to energy policy in the future. Green certificates and the EU's renewable directive are two things that oblige us internationally. In addition, there have been a number of promises from this government about what they should do, which should also oblige us, and therefore should be included in an energy message independent of international commitments. An energy notification ensures that the long-term objectives and instruments are closely related. We may be wrong about our assumptions, but we have at least tried to quantify them. They say that this is done in the state budget. If that's the attitude of this government, why in every day is a big deal about anything? After all, the State budget covers almost everything that is happening in the Kingdom! Nevertheless, this government has found it necessary to have a museum message. Nothing is wrong with the Norwegian museum, but: Why is it important to have a big message about the Norwegian museum, but not about Norwegian energy policy? Is it that the Norwegian Museum is not mentioned in the State budget by this government? Yes, of course they do, but it is quite easier for this government to agree on what kind of museum policy it should have than to agree on what kind of energy policy it should have. When the case rapporteur stands and lists all that this government has done and will do, I just have to remind you that the green certificates have been agreed upon in Stortinget. There has been some disagreement about whether they should be technology neutral or not. This disagreement has been most precarious in the government and is the reason why this scheme did not come into place in 2006, but one had to wait until 2012, so that the government could in the meantime turn away from Soria Moria I and enter into technology-neutral certificates – it did not allow Soria Moria I. I have to remind you that the powerlines that you talk about – the one that has now been built from Sweden – were started under the Bondevik government. The powerline to save the Middle Norway situation, when we discussed the issue in 2005, was to be launched in 2010 – in the first debates. Now the government boasts that it will come into place in 2015. There is no offensive policy, it tends to be called a postponement – just like green certificates. I would like to remind you that all the four gas power projects that have been launched under the red-green government in central Norway have been scraped or are unrealized. Sea wind was pulled forward here. When we discussed the Law of the Sea in March of this year, we asked the Minister of Energy how many wind turbines he thought it would be built in Norway for the next ten years. The answer was zero. Drawing it out as a sign of offensive bet, gets to account for the red-greens' own account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e379	The President will only inform you that the proposal of the President of the case, the representative of Rudihagen, has not yet been distributed in the Chamber, and it may have an impact on the further debate, that the proposal is concerned, that the vote is changed from 'not accepted' to 'attach the Minutes' – this is only for information for the sake of the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e382	I am pleased that last Monday, the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen was able to announce that he has plans to carry out a broad review of the energy and power balance and to present a major communication on energy policy. An energy sample shall be set up to look at the long-term evolution of the power and energy balance up to 2030 and 2050. It is important that Norway, as an energy storm power, takes care of our position in order to exploit the industrial opportunities that this gives us, jobs and value creation, while at the same time having a responsibility for being a reliable energy supplier and contributing to the most sustainable delivery of energy compared to the climate challenge. According to the IEA analyses, the world will need a lot of energy in the future, and Norway will have to take its share of both the responsibility and the potential for economic development. The right is that this matter is over-mature, and that too many years have been missing the focus of energy policy. While energy policy has been high on the agenda in almost all other countries, there has been no overall debate on this in the energy storm power of Norway for many years. Since today’s government took over in 2005, there has been only one major communication on energy policy from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It was on four pages, referred to renewable energy, and the proposals were withdrawn the following year. Yes, the government of Stoltenberg is about to be remembered as the government where there were more energy governments than the number of pages of energy policy it has presented to the Stortinget. Instead of some general principles of energy policy, there have been ever-changing signals and frequent lifting breaks. Those who wanted to expand new renewable energy production have, for example: had to comply with four different support schemes in the last five years. The power-intensive industries that were seduced by the red-green promises of cheap power at below market prices in 2005 have become bearded in the mailbox and are currently struggling in a tough power market to contract under commercial conditions with which they can live. The results of this policy can be read almost daily in the media in the form of resistance to network deployment plans, high electricity prices in parts of Norway, industry which assess the legitimation as a result of struggling to put in place long-term industrial power contracts under a government that has not implemented a promised guarantee scheme, and which also sits almost powerless in relation to the monopolistic position of Statkraft, which sits on about 80 p.m. of the magazine capacity in Norway and thus must be said to be the only real contracting partner in Norway. This government has failed around 120 small power plants by not integrating them into a transitional scheme of green certificates, thus creating uncertainties about the trust that energy operators can actually have in political authorities – a government that, despite almost a doubling of the case handling capacity in the NVE, is still spending around five years in concession handling an application for the creation of small power plants, and a government that is driven from the sidelines to the sidelines of network development policy because it has not been able to run sufficiently good local processes, focused on nature and has been open to the use of new technological solutions. The debates we have had in this Chamber in recent years have been largely initiated by the opposition either through representative proposals such as what we are dealing with today, or through interpellations and questions about energy policy. The government itself has produced sadly little in this area, with the exception of the marine energy development framework. But even in this area, the policy seems to have little focus on exploiting the potential that lies just outside our own living room door. Most people seem to have a common understanding that marine energy in the form of liquid seamills has a large theoretical potential, but that it is relatively far before technology is commercially available. At the same time, there are large plans for the development of bottom-up installations in our neighbouring EU countries, especially in the UK sector. Norway has many environments of expertise and suppliers that may be relevant for deliveries in these markets, but several of the smaller players need demo facilities as reference points to be placed in this market. Unfortunately, the government has not been able to provide adequate R & D resources here, and I would like to once again call upon the Riis-Johansen Council of State to contribute through its Council of State colleagues to this. This industry does not have time to wait for a government change in 2013 – these trains are now running. It announced the Energy Committee will deliver its report in the winter of 2012. This means that we are not likely to receive a wholesale report on energy policy for treatment in Stortinget until at least one and a half to two years. In an issue that is important for an energy storm power such as Norway, this seems to be spending too much time. The matter is over-ripe for decisions and practical policies. Norway is an integral part of Europe in terms of energy. The EU has recently presented its energy strategy. Norway must be active in taking advantage of its potential, including: The EU has as its first priority the development of infrastructure links to the north. The EU is already well on track with its renewable strategy, while Norway has not yet negotiated how to take part in its implementation. The proposal presented is supported by the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e401	The President shall assume that the proposal submitted in the vote is concerned and not the proposal submitted by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e404	We stand behind and support the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e409	Just now, two proposals have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e412	The debate that we had a few days ago shows that the opposition is largely concentrated on energy policy. They are gathered about something: this case is probably one of the few cases. Thus, the opposition actually illustrated a broader issue in Norwegian energy policy in a very good way, and it is that the reality lies between many actors in the perception of energy and power policies in Norway, security of supply, energy saving and various issues related to the environmental impact of the development and distribution of power. These are issues we've been using a lot of power on in Stortinget in the last year. That's very good. This means that the statements from the opposition that there are fewer aspects of energy policy to the Storting than the number of government councils we have had are put in a somewhat embarrassing light. For there is one thing we are not missing in Norway – fortunately – there is a broad debate on energy and power policy. That's good, because it's a very important political matter. I also fully agree with the government, which added up to an investigation before addressing a new energy message, which was announced a short time ago. I believe that the need for an investigation that can clarify some important debates, and which may perhaps help to build bridges between different fronts, is absolutely present. I also believe that everyone agrees. There is a gap in the perception of the reality of Norwegian energy and environmental policy that exists between many actors, all of whom have the best intentions, and quite the same intentions, between different environmental organisations and between different actors in the energy and power industries, is quite striking in Norwegian debate. I absolutely believe that the need for such an investigation is therefore present. Although the opposition has been gathered on the demand for an energy message, there is reason to point out that there has been a certain gap in the desire for what an energy message really is, what it should be about, and what it should contain. In the debate, I have heard everything from nuclear power to Norwegian oil and gas policy to Norwegian security of supply and balance of power that various themes such an energy communication should cover. That is why I am also pleased that the government in its announcements has made a good delimitation of the field. I am glad that the government will meet those who have long wanted an energy message. And then I prefer to ignore the polemics of the Right on fewer aspects of energy policy than the number of government councils etc. There is also reason to remind Right that the Right itself has very few merits in terms of network expansion, that the maintenance and expansion of the Norwegian central network collapsed after the Right liberalised the power market, and the liberalisation of power itself makes it quite special to hear Right play surprising that we have different and fluctuating power prices in Norway, and that Right did not have the least problem with e.g.. building the Worm Lange, failing in the warnings about the consequences it would have for security of supply and power prices in central Norway. Fortunately, the investigation now announced will keep a much higher factual level than the polemics from parts of the opposition. That's good, and that means we might also have good and constructive rounds of energy policy next year and years after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e426	The case-speaker has done a good job both of what is involved and of what is the government's initiative in relation to a knowledge acquisition and a message that sees the long lines of energy policy. And I have to be allowed to point out that there is a certain difference between having an annual, or ‘regular’ reporting to the Biggest on Energy Policy and setting up a selection and working out the long lines and seeing the big perspectives for energy policy in the years to come. Then it should rightly be said that the opposition has also previously asked for an energy message, and in that way highlight something that is closer to what the government is now presenting. But we have from the position's side, including the Center Party, taken up that a number of things that need – and needed – to find a clarification before one has a basis for such a message. We have mentioned here in the past both green certificates, on which there is now a clear clarification, and work on the implementation of the EU's renewable directive. Line questions have also been mentioned, and the new legislation on sea winds etc. So the timing is right now. One will always be able to give an argument that when one has collected apple for the cottage, someone might claim that this could have been done early this summer, so had a saved amount of work. But it's a time for everything. And now is a good time to do what the government does, simply to start working with a comprehensive message and a knowledge acquisition in front of her. So I also think it is right, when the opposition is now constantly pointing to this by looking at the soundness of energy policy, to remind you that one has also asked for sectoral messages on wind, on water, on CO2 management, on oil and gas policy, etc. Nor has there been a single point of view from the opposition on what an energy message should contain. It was also pointed out by the representative of Serigstad Valen. So, in that sense, there is no alternative, bringing together energy policies in this room in relation to the one the government is running.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e440	In the letter from the Council of State, and also in the vote on today's case, it says: ‘The overall energy policy, drawn up by the government’s political platform for the period 2009–2013, is solid.’ On Monday we were informed that the government announced a broad review of the power and energy balance. If we look at the press release and the mandate sent to us by the press this day, it says that we should look at ‘production, consumption, network expansion and the exchange of power with the rest of the world’. If we look at today's proposal, what we are dealing with now, we will obviously also look at power generation, power consumption. That is really the same thing as the press release of 13 December 2010, as what we are discussing today. But the challenge is the response of the Council of State to the Storting, that energy policy has been drawn up in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that it is firm. And it is clear from the mandate that the timing of this sample will be delivered in the winter of 2012. We also heard from the chairman of the committee that this sample should look at the long lines. My conclusion in relation to the process we have had in the last few days, and why the government parties now choose to attach this matter to the protocol, goes to the word ‘even’ – that is where we really disagree – and that the government does not want to have a regular presentation of an energy message to the Stortinget. Because the content we're agreeing on. If we read on in the letter to the Council of State, as well as in the setting, it says: ‘This notification must be assessed on the basis of which relevant and key energy issues should be submitted to the Stortinget.’ If we are going to look at current and key energy issues – that is, what we are going to be presented here in Stortinget – then one with respect has to say that there have been no current and central energy issues, because the Stortinget has not been presented with any cases. I think it's a little eye-catching, because most people talk about energy issues. This is a theme that the taxi driver brings up with me, and also my good friend in the Narvesen-Kiosken at Ashim Station – this is a theme day in and day out. But we haven't got any issues, and then there's no central, topical energy issues. And that's what we're going to get presented. The representative Serigstad Valen was concerned with the cracking of the opposition. For the Christian People's Party, there is no goal – it has never been a goal – that there should be an overall opposition. The Christian People's Party promotes its policy. But since nothing comes from the government, I also have to ask back: is it a sign of a clear crack when the government can't deliver any things? When there are no central, topical issues to deliver on, there can be no other answer to it than that the reason is that there is so much crack inside the government. State Council Halvorsen has just said that it is in the field of energy and foreign affairs that the government strives the most. But then to this sample and the message that we once get -- those of us sitting on the Storting next period, because that's when we get such a message. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that, in such a report, we have an interaction between climate and energy, for the objectives of the climate agreement make major demands for changes in energy policy by 2020 and also by 2050. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party to point out that a future energy policy is a policy that sees the link between climate and energy, and also sees the challenge between these two areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e465	This will only be a short mark on the Left side, since the Minister of Oil and Energy has announced that an energy message will be presented to the Stortinget. The left believes there is a need for an energy message. The introduction of green certificates, the EU's renewable directive, more transmission capacity to Europe, the conversion of existing oil installations and the construction of new ones, which should be electrified – all of this suggests that we need a long-term plan for the use of Norwegian energy. I track that just such an energy message will create debate and will clarify the lines of policy. That's good. The left agrees with the criticism that comes from the other opposition parties regarding the government's relationship with the Stortinget. In a letter from the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 5 November 2010, it states: ‘A regular presentation of an Energy Policy Landfill Communication will not necessarily be adapted to the need for general discussions on energy policy.’ This came on 5 November and was referred to in the comments of the government parties as a reason not to support the proposal. Over a month later, the same oil and energy minister announced that he would like to promote such a notification. Nevertheless, the parties to the government will not vote in favour of the proposal in the vote today. Well, I think they would have earned on just that. The left will vote in favour of the motion in the vote, from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e477	I refer to my reply to the Storting on this matter at the beginning of November. A regular presentation of an energy policy forecast will not necessarily be adapted to the need for general discussions on energy policy. Such a large-scale notification must be assessed on the basis of the relevant and central energy issues that are relevant to the presentation of the Storting. During this year, however, we have put in place several important milestones in energy policy. In the spring we got the new Law on Marine Energy, which opens up new opportunities for a completely new form of energy in the years to come. At the same time, the government has set a course for the construction of central power lines, such as Sima-Samnanger and Ørskog-Fardal. Now in December, together with the Swedish government, we signed a protocol for a single market for electricity certificates from 2012. This will lead to a large-scale deployment of renewable energy in the two countries. The government has also stepped up its efforts to improve energy efficiency to a record level in 2011. With these crucial prerequisites in place, I believe the time has come to lay the foundation for a new forward-looking and broad energy policy platform, this in the form of a new energy message that will enable us to meet the challenges in the energy sector in the decades to come. An energy sample should therefore be set up to look at the long-term evolution of the power and energy balance by 2030 and 2050. The work of the Committee shall provide an important basis for a key communication on energy policy. The selection shall identify, assess, key factors affecting the energy and power balance in Norway, including: production, consumption, network expansion and exchange of power with the rest of the world. The Energy Committee shall have a broad membership, involving both stakeholders and persons with special expertise. A major communication on energy policy will therefore be promoted, enabling the Storting to discuss precisely these broad lines and our future energy policy. However, such a message will not be provided at fixed intervals, or ‘even’, as the representatives Solvik-Olsen, Skumsvoll and Grimstad propose. With regard to the regular follow-up, I would like to refer to the annual budgets, which mention results and key energy strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e488	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e491	The government parties and the Minister of Energy are putting up an artificial debate, because the opposition has never refused to have an inquiry into energy policy before submitting a big message. They've always been welcome, but one has said so far from the government that everything needed to know about the government's energy policy is in Soria Moria. Now it's obviously not good enough, when you feel the need to figure it out, and that's too much. The representative Sande from the Center Party said it's a time for everything. Now it's time to have an energy message. Yes, on 5 November it was not for the Minister of Energy. ‘Normal’ does not mean annual; ‘regular’ may mean once every four years, every eight years, every two years. The point is that you should start getting a big message. As one has obligations until 2020, it is natural that one should resubmit them. So the question is, what's happened in the government or in society that now needs an energy message that wasn't needed ten days ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e500	As I said in my post, we're talking here about two different things. The representatives who have made the proposal request a ‘regular’ feedback to the Stortinget in the form of a communication on the State of Energy or an energy message. I mean – as I said in my post, and as I have also said many, many times in Stortinget in the past – that it is important to clarify individual matters through the processes that belong there. So now we have a basis to look beyond what we had a year ago, two years ago, because we have just put in place so important elements in the short and half-long energy policy horizon. My goal now is at the same time to start a process that looks further ahead than that – 2030, 2050. This is not a sample to solve today's energy policy challenges, cf. Discussions we now have, but that will look further ahead, and after that. So that's my thinking around it, and I think it's a very correct thinking out of energy policy needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e507	Some policy areas require a greater long-termity and perhaps a greater degree of consensus than others, and the energy area is such an area in which we, at least a majority, have succeeded in agreeing on some major lines across the board. I have two questions for the Council of State. One is in relation to facilitating a slightly broad compromise on energy policy in the future. What are the thoughts of the Council of State about this? The second thing is that we from the Right believe that time is overdue to get such a big message. The Committee shall deliver its report in 2012. Is it possible to bring this forward faster? For the country, a comprehensive energy policy needs to be faster than the government adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e514	We're going to do this as fast as possible. I do not agree with the representative Hemdal instead, that this means that this magnificence does not have the opportunity to discuss these questions. I imagine that one of the first selection work to be done now needs about a year to do a decent job – that's normal for that kind of process – and then we're going to make a big message in the extension of it. But that means we're going to be done with the time enough for this magnification to get a good opportunity to discuss it. When it comes to getting a broad compromise, I would say it had been very good. To the extent that it is possible politically to agree on important choices in energy policy, I welcome it. Then the process will show whether there is a political basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e521	I base the government's letter that the government's energy policy is «fixed» until 2013, because that is what the government informs the Storting about. The Council of State said in its statement that he would not deliver a firm message on energy policy. I'll also take that into account. However, the Council of State also says to the Stortinget in the form of a letter that a ‘mortgage notification must be assessed on the basis of which relevant and central energy matters should be presented to the Stortinget’. My question is, Councillor, we know that the Renewables Directive is coming. We know we're getting a climate report. We know we're going to have a management plan for the Barents Sea. We know that we have a case here in the house that concerns the sharing relationship between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea. Is there any of these four issues and relationships around them that allow us to expect a big message about the issues in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e528	It almost has to be answered on the basis of the individual cases. Climate issues are obviously a matter that Stortinget gets presented as a message. It's announced by the government. The answer is yes. The answer to the question of the management plan and the management of resources at sea is yes. It will Stortinget get presented during the coming winter. I can add for myself that we have a parallel to it, the process related to the petroleum message, which the Storting will also be presented. In matters mentioned here, it is natural that we end up in documents, as a big message, and that the Stortinget then has a debate in the extension of the submissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e538	I think I can speak on behalf of more than just the Progress Party now. It is a little strange that the government should first agree internally on the instruments and then present the strategy for the Storing afterwards. Could this mean that we will finally be awarded the mid-Norway package of measures announced in 2005 but not yet available? In that case, we are looking forward to that. In the letter to the Committee on 5 November, the Minister of Energy wrote that the overall energy policy drawn up in Soria Moria is firm. Nevertheless, when he now creates a sample to explore all possible aspects of energy policy, can we expect that energy policy will not be as firm when a forecast is received, so that we can take on board the recommendations and advice that this sample would like to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e545	In this area, as in other policies, the decisions taken remain firm until other decisions are taken. I would like to mention that it is nice that all energy policy decisions taken in 2010-2011 are the same as those taken in 2015-2020. There is, of course, a dynamic in this area, as it is in other areas of society. I'll almost hope that one looks, because one gets new knowledge, one gets new technology. There are new opportunities, but there are also new challenges. To what is said to be a strange process, that the government will agree with each other before the Stortinge gets something presented, before the debate is taken, I have to say that I was a little over the question. I believe that it is most natural in this world that one has an internal process in every government, agrees on policies in different areas and also agrees on proposals for instruments and measures and presents them to the Stortinget. I have some problems seeing what would be the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e552	The representative proposal has something to do with getting a little more regular overviews of the state of energy in the country. When we have the state of the state's environment as an example, and other areas where reports or messages are regularly presented to the State Council, I would like to imagine once again that the State Council explained to me why the energy area, an area where Norway is really a major act, an area where Norway has a great responsibility, an area that affects so much of our industry, our value creation, our jobs, etc., should in some way not be found worthy of regular messages – i.e. about the state of energy. Will the Council of State consider whether such a type of reporting would be sensible to return to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e559	I think there is a sort of downgrading of the annual budgetary processes that Stortinget has, in what the representative Meling here says. It is not that there is neither a basis for debate in the Storting nor a basis for policy-making through the presentation and discussion of the budgetary documents. For my own part, I had a quite comprehensive explanation, including: on Enova, in budgetary documents, which provides a good basis for any debate requested in the Stortinget. So I think this is considerably more extensive and nuanced than what's being taken up here. There are feedback, there is policy design, there is a basis for both debate and decisions through the budget proposals, and it is also marked today. And then it's natural to make messages and propositions related to individual matters, and in this case also an overall energy message when the need for it is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e566	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e571	This case is presented as a clear example of issues the opposition has raised and called for for a long time, where they have met the counter-argument and received some unspeakable comments. So, after a short time, the opposition and the Progress Party are presented with a matter that is, to be confused, similar to what they have requested – of course, changed in form and style, but it is nevertheless very similar in substance. The reason is, of course, that the need for a big message about the state of energy for the energy nation of Norway is very up-to-date, and one can no longer shake responsibility and the need for an overarching energy policy. Proposalers believe that one of the major challenges in the energy sector is the lack of overarching, robust and long-term energy policies. The government's work has focused too much on individual issues in energy policy, without having to look at health and address the challenges from a health perspective. The Progress Party believes that a holistic collapse message on the state of energy of the kingdom is absolutely necessary to ensure a good, ambitious and ground-based approach that can reveal both the short-term and the long-term power needs as well as the production capacity and potential there. It gives the caregiver what is needed, and I also expect the actors in this industry to be busy with the long-term energy sector. Today it looked like they would vote against red-green; now it seems to be attached to the protocol. When the representative Serigstad Valen keeps up the opposition as a little bit, it comes in a very strange light, because the position has now lasted for five and a half years to become a few internally in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e584	I have also registered many from the opposition who have called for an energy message for a long time. In particular, the Progress Party at Ketil Solvik-Olsen has done so. When there's now a warning that an energy message will come, one might think that it would bring with it joy and satisfaction. But it doesn't sound like that. The proposal for a representative to be discussed here today points to a range of areas that should be included in a national energy status report. There are issues of expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies, strategies for investing in the development of new energy sources and the status of Norwegian international energy obligations. I expect that much of this will be captured in this alert energy message, and it is because the government party proposed to attach this document to the protocol. One might expect it to result in a little positive talk from the opposition, but it really reminds me a little bit of what Peer Gynt says – in my dialect, ‘If a sluggish or a sluggish, just as full, gets a whip!’ So Ketil Solvik-Olsen well to haggle over the government party instead of seeing the value in that he now has the possibility in future to be with and discuss the future energy policy in its full and complete breadth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e595	In order for there to be no doubt: if the president permits it, we can take three times three hurrahs for the council that has done this, we can sing the royal song, and we can sing a child is born in Bethlehem, if it brings joy and joy to the red-green parties. There's no one here who's against this! I'm very happy every time the government turns around in its policy and makes something possible. I was delighted when the government turned from its no to having a powerline debate in Stortinget to now say yes. I was very happy when the government went from saying no to having small power plants in the scheme of green certificates to now saying yes. Then we got things in place. I was very happy when the government went from saying no to having an oil message to now saying yes. I'm looking forward to the next spins that are coming, because one sees that there was a hit in Soria Moria I and in Soria Moria II, did not belong in this world, because there were impossible rhetorical compromises between the Workers' Party and the SV, which are unable to reconcile in very many areas. I'm happy every time the government sees the light. However, it does not remove the opposition’s right to point out that a proposal that we have made countless times – which one has had a lot of strange arguments for not wanting to adopt – does not relate to that rhetorical user for which now is suddenly in time. It's a time for everything. Yes, it's a time for everything, but that is: the logic that the government used when the climate communication was presented was that now we need to agree on the overall targets for 2020 and 2050 – and then we need to fill them with tools. When Erik Solheim received criticism in recent months that the climate agreement was not met – and that criticism has come from the Bondevik II parties – the argument has been that we did not fill the climate communication with instruments precisely because these were things that had to be done. But when it comes to energy policy, the arguments from the red-green parties are the exact opposite – then we have to agree on the instruments in the government first, and then we have to put forward the strategy. It's just silly to have that kind of rhetoric. It just shows that there have been quite other things that have made the energy message not available. It's been what the government itself has admitted in the line changes, that first one had to agree internally, so it took five and a half years. I strongly doubt that this government has still agreed, but one has come an important step forward on the way. Let me hope that the investigation that is now coming will be the basis for the last major internal disagreements in the government, so that we can have an overall strategy debate that both commits and inspires politicians and the industry to start implementing many of the common goals we all have. We do not disagree in many areas about where we want to go, but we have had political disagreement about the instruments that work, but there is an increasing trend towards what the opposition has wanted, namely market-based instruments. I'm happy about that. Let's hope we get such reverse operations in the next few issues we're going to discuss today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e609	Of course, the President must state – and the President expects the representative to be aware – that the term "fuck" does not belong in this type of debate. Neither does it. ‘customs’ or ‘tubes’, which were clearly the meaning of the representative. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1982]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e627	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. And, as we have all understood, the first speaker is Mr Snorre Serigstad Valen, and he is also the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e638	From the looks I got from some people in the hall, including a show president, I got the feeling that I might not be allowed to stand here as early as I did, and then I learned something new today. I'm sorry, President! [[Laughter]] I can also reassure the previous speaker, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, that at least I am not negative to market-based solutions, even though I am a socialist in a number of areas, and I believe that one of the areas where market-based solutions can be a good idea is in energy saving. The representative Heimdal mentioned in the previous case that energy policy is something everyone is talking about. We heard an example of a friend of the representative who is taxi driver in Ashim. I think he's probably not alone in discussing energy policy for the time being, that's something that many people are interested in. That's absolutely right. And one of the things there's a lot of debate about now -- not just here in the hall, but also elsewhere -- is power prices. That's why I thought it was a little sad that in the energy and environmental debate that we had a few days ago, the energy saving of some representatives was presented as a little bit of a shudder – whether it is a parliamentary expression – which we should not lift up so much, which is almost a bit discouraging to talk about. And some representatives were kind of insulted on behalf of the inhabitants of Trøndelag when it was pointed out that the most effective way to bring down the electricity bill to people is to find ways to reduce power consumption. That is why I think the representative proposal 8:165 S is a good one in many ways. Proposalers are quite right in saying that there is a great unsolved potential in energy saving in Norway. Not because nothing is done in Norway, far from it, but because its potential is so significant — nordics are among the world’s most powerful. In particular, given that the agreement with Sweden on green certificates is in place and that the scheme will enter into force in 2012, there is a need for a debate on both how to stimulate not only energy development but energy saving, and what to use Enova for in the years to come. In this context, I think it is absolutely right to discuss energy saving schemes that can provide more incentives and where more actors are stimulated to save energy. That is why I am personally also very fascinated by the ideas about so-called white certificates, which I think can be one possible solution to trigger increased energy saving in households in Norway. It has something to do with me thinking it would have a value for more actors than those who live in the household themselves, having an interest in saving energy in a given household. So far, I'm following the proposers, and that's one thing I want to be with and discuss in the future. So at the same time, it's important not to talk down the efforts that are already being made. Enova is strongly strengthened under the red-green government, and is a very successful organization in its field. Energy saving is an area that is strongly strengthened under the red-green. Many industrial actors are implementing projects supported by Enova which provide for dramatic reductions in energy consumption and increased energy recovery, and consequently reduced costs. This also includes a lot of technology development, that is, a non-technological neutral thinking. Enova’s support schemes for households have reached almost 40,000 people in Norway in recent years and are referred to in the evaluation – again mentioned in the government’s proposal this year – as a success in many ways. These are good and important schemes. That is why we propose to attach the proposal to the Minutes. That's for several reasons. Firstly, the majority is well on the way to further debate on the design of energy saving schemes in Norway, but at the same time we have not concluded that, and we believe it is a little too soon to conclude in such a type of proposal as well. Then we also believe that in the future there is a need for both technology neutral and technology-driven schemes for different purposes. I do not share the reflections that proposers make around switching from electricity to other renewable heat sources. I think I'm much more positive there than the proposers. I believe it is important to release the use of electricity from heating to others more – misunderstand me correctly – high-quality purpose. There is a lot of emissions we can cut in Norway by electrifying e.g. car park, socket, etc. It's important to release power. The majority therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the protocol, and then we are faced with a good debate in the future on the design of energy saving schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e657	Let me first address the proposal of which the Advance Party is part. Then I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his – let us say – reasonably satisfactory contributions. I almost suspect that he had not been part of the government constellation, he had voted in favour of the proposal. Let's hope that the committee leader's party does not use the U.S. Embassy to argue against what Snorre Serigstad Valen here is obviously for. Energy saving is something that is not difficult to be for at all. The question is, what kind of instruments should we use? Today, we have a bureaucratic subsidy scheme that achieves results in all respects. However, the question is: do you get the results that you should get in relation to how much money you spend on it? Do we have the technology width we should have? That's what we want to raise questions about, and not to talk negatively about Enova as such. The Progress Party believes that it is possible to get more money back that society chooses to use to stimulate energy saving. Then we should open up for such things. I think it was a little uplifting what the Minister of Energy said in the last line change, namely that the decisions that have been taken only apply until the next decision is taken. One needs to take over new information and new experiences that emerge along the way. I think we have enough experience now to say that yes, a lot works, but a lot could be better. We have said several times that let's use the tax system to stimulate. Then you get a technology neutral system. Then people know that they're making an investment that's defined as energy saving, they're going to be able to write off their expenses on the tax, and you're also getting more of this economy on the white track. Alternatively, white certificates can be a way of doing this, with a market-based system in which we set policy objectives. The power companies – or the power sellers – in cooperation with consumers have a role to play in reducing energy use. However, where action is taken is outside of political hands and outside of bureaucratic hands, it is really up to professional and customer discussions. When we promote this proposal, it has a background in a debate that I took part in this year's Eliaden at Lillestrom. There was the head of the Liaison Committee. When he sat face to face with the entire industry that is engaged in energy saving and energy measures in Norway, he was suddenly very positive to a technology neutral support system. This was not just a confession, but it was one of his main messages when he had to see the business in his face. Then I thought that these were nice signals, here he has taken in knowledge and experience and will improve the system. And precisely with that inspiration for the eye we promoted this proposal, believing that he actually also spoke on behalf of the Workers' Party. Now we see that he didn't. There was a way to talk a group of voters after their mouths, without wanting to commit themselves either before or after. It's very disappointing. The saving potential is great, many will contribute. What one experiences, however, is that the uncertainty is also great. Several people who contact Enova and get advance commitments do not realize their projects. In the case of household aid, approx. half, according to figures from Enova, never paid. We believe that there may be some faults in the system that cause people to fall off. I think some people also experience it as unreasonable when the state arrangements give far more money to expand new power generation, for example. to wind power, than to save an equivalent amount of energy. There we should also discuss, as a society and as a big crowd, whether we should not ensure that for a given amount of money – especially with a government that is more faithful to the rule of action than many others, that you have a limited amount of money – you get maximum results. We should then look at whether or not to equalise the level of support for energy saving and power generation. And that doesn't open up the government with this. I also believe there are many consumers who consider it unreasonable to be able to get support for some exotic and costly measures, which the more well-fed among us in society will afford, while those who are actually struggling most with the electricity bill cannot get one penny out of the state, because the instruments in their price category are not eligible from Enova, such as clean wood stoves and air-to-air heat pumps. I can see the arguments for helping the new technology in the market, but then you get to call it the scheme. If the primary objective is energy saving, the technologies that save energy must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of whether they are expensive or cheap. We can't do that now. Now this becomes more like a kind of market support scheme for producers of costly technologies than it is an energy saving scheme. I don't think that's the intention, at least not of the case rapporteur. But that is precisely why I wish that this proposal had been adopted and not just attached to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e680	The cheapest and most environmentally friendly energy is the one that is not used. Therefore, it is surprising that Norway is the only country in Europe without a clear energy efficiency improvement target. Today, considerable resources are being used for energy conversion — in other words, phase-out of fossil energy for building heating. This is an essential contribution to Norway’s 20 pst reduction target. at home by 2020, something to the right. However, the potential for energy efficiency improvement is unresolved. 40 pst. of Norway’s net domestic final final consumption of energy, 80 TWh, is used for the operation of buildings and user functionality. Nevertheless, Norway lacks clear targets and good enough tools to realise the energy saving potential of the building stock. In its energy and climate package, the EU has adopted both 20 pst. of the total EU energy consumption in 2020 shall come from renewable energy sources and energy use shall be streamlined by 20 pst. in relation to ‘business as usual’. Energy efficiency improvement in buildings will facilitate compliance with these obligations, but commitments will also be imposed on Norway in the forthcoming revised EU Building Energy Directive and in the EU renewable directive. On 1 February 2007, new energy requirements in technical regulations entered into force under the Planning and Building Act. The new requirements shall reduce the net energy demand by about 25 pst. compared to previous regulations, which would result in a saving of approximately 4.5 TWh. It shows the importance of the active use of technical regulations by politicians and the need to be strengthened through frequent revisions of technical regulations. Good labelling schemes for construction, not least by sale and rental, are important so that energy efficiency can be more closely reflected in selling prices or rental prices. The current energy labelling scheme may also be used to impose energy requirements on new buildings. This is where the public has to go. In Oslo, a number of model projects relating to public buildings are now under way. The last out is the schools of Gran and Weitvet. Climate-friendly construction is an essential part of Oslo’s strategy to achieve the city’s ambitious goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. The right considers that the State has a special responsibility to go ahead. Therefore, it was particularly disappointing and a symbol of the government's lack of action when the government chose to include the new building in the government quarter, R6, with medium-sized energy standards. The paradox is not diminished by the fact that on several occasions the Minister for the Environment has promoted the new headquarters of Storebrand in Lysaker as an excellent example of climate-friendly rehabilitation. Private households make up 68 pst. energy consumption in the building mass of Norway and the replacement of the building mass takes time. New requirements in technical regulations are therefore not enough alone. If we are to achieve significant progress, we are dependent on good incentives to invest in energy efficiency measures. Enova currently has a template-based support scheme for selective energy measures aimed at households. In addition to this, the minimum limit for triggering aid from Enova is 500000 kWh saved energy per year. In practice, this means that Enova’s funds are not available to private homes and smaller housing companies. On the right, the individual owner of the dwelling believes that energy efficiency measures should be stimulated by e.g.: tax credit for documented expenditure on energy saving measures in owner-occupied dwellings. It is a simple, efficient and unbureaucratic model that will trigger significant energy efficiency improvements in Norway, in building mass segments that currently have few or no public support schemes. Today, only Oslo, run by blue-blue parties, has satisfactory support schemes for private households. It is worth noting that tax credits for energy efficiency improvement in owner-occupied housing have been adopted in Sweden and the United States. Another current option is so-called white certificates, which we notice with interest that the representative Heikki Holmås spoke warmly for in this room on Monday, and the representative Serigstad Valen today. The right considers that both energy requirements and support schemes must be technology-neutral in order to maximise energy efficiency for each invested krone. Energy requirements and support schemes must therefore be based on energy supplied in the building. On the right, it is of the opinion that it is wrong to go where the government in its proposal for new technical regulations wants to phase out the use of electricity, despite the professional objections of the NVE that electricity for heating buildings is both clean and efficient. I am sure that those citizens of the country who have invested in heat pump systems where 1 kWh of electricity generates 3 kWh of heat – and there are probably some also in this room – find it very unfortunate to be put in an environmental booth with those who use oil fires. Electricity consumption in Norway comes from clean and environmentally friendly hydropower. Electric heating systems use established power grids and do not require a parallel infrastructure. New, renewable energy sources will be able to a large extent to be transported and used with electricity as an energy carrier. Electricity heat is fast and efficient to regulate at the right temperature, and can also be remotely controlled or pre-programmed, leading to a low need for energy supplied for construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e703	First, I would like to point out that I am pleased that the proposers are showing commitment to energy efficiency improvement. Not only the proposers, but a Joint Committee is very committed in this area. If we're going to achieve the climate measure, it's very central to getting good results in this area as well. If we are to achieve this, energy needs to be used more efficiently, new technologies need to be developed and introduced into the market, and most people need to know how effective and environmentally friendly solutions they can choose. The significant potential for energy saving must be released and power released from heating for other and more environmentally friendly purposes. I have noted the considerable effort made by Enova in relation to energy efficiency and renewable energy, including in households. Since the setting was made, the governments of Sweden and Norway have been involved in an agreement on green certificates. The single electricity market will be created from January 2012 onwards and will generate around 26.4 TWh of new energy by 2020. As the Committee's plurality has stressed in its setting, energy efficiency could become an even more central focus of Enova after the market enters into force. For this reason, we also look forward in the Centre to discussions on the design and further development of support schemes for energy efficiency measures, both technology-neutral and technology-driven schemes. However, when we have chosen to include the proposal in the Minutes, it is also because we believe that there is a degree of technology neutrality in today's support system, as one highlights projects that provide the highest energy output per capita. At the same time, we want it to override the regime of energy efficiency – and the thinking in that area – to have a design that allows certain technologies to be promoted and desired technologies to be steered towards certain areas. For example, heating is facilitated, heating sources that release electricity, as I pointed out, because electricity is a more flexible form of energy than e.g. the bio will be at present with today's technology, and can be used towards areas where one has fossil energy carriers today, thus leading to reduced greenhouse gas emissions, for example. However, this does not put a stop to discussing technology-neutral and market-based schemes such as these. white certificate. Such schemes can be good and effective in some areas, but not necessarily all of the areas that Enova manages today. We, on the part of the Centre Party, are overstepping the goal of energy saving, energy efficiency improvement, and are open to discuss different ways of achieving that goal, while at the same time wanting to highlight the significant work being done in this area today. A lot of exciting happens in the direction of Enova with good results. It's not supposed to be signed, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e718	As the representative of Astrup said, the most environmentally friendly TWh is the one that is not being used. But that's how we depend on energy. We may be more than ever dependent on energy. The rapporteur, Serigstad Valen, said that this was a good proposal in many ways, and that we have a significant potential in terms of energy efficiency improvement. The representative Serigstad Valen is a white certificate champion. I don't think it's a single energy debate where the representative doesn't produce white certificates. I'm very happy about that. I have written here that the representative Serigstad Valen has a heartchild in white certificates. I look forward to the government presenting a case just about white certificates, because I expect the Swedish government to use its majority power and present such a case to the Stortinget. The government has put down a sample led by Arnstad, Arnstad Committee, and now the report of her selection has also come. We are told that we have a great potential for energy efficiency improvement in existing buildings. We can save 10 TWh by 2020 and 40 TWh by 2040. It's a halve of the energy that we're using today. It's said that if we're going to do this, we're going to have to put some money in. We need 1-2 billion. kr. We'll get 80 000 jobs, and the state will eventually get some increase in VAT into the treasury. So there's a little round dance we're in on in terms of economy, but it gives results for better use of energy. Well, that's what this congregation is concerned about. I am very pleased with the comment made by the majority in the position on the future of Enova. Let me quote: ‘The majority believe that energy efficiency improvement could become an even more central focus of Enova after the entry into force of this market. In this context, the majority meets further discussions on the design and further development of the support mechanisms for energy efficiency improvement measures, including both technology neutral and technology driven schemes.» We really don't disagree so much about the future, because with green certificates in place, which we're going to be presented before Easter, as the Council of State has promised the Storting, we're also going to have to have a review of Enova. It's a review that the Christian People's Party expects to come to the Stortinget and is confirmed here. But in the context of that review, the government parties here have announced that they want to look at both technology-neutral and technology-driven schemes. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e736	I just want to say a little short about Enova, because more people have been into it. The left is essentially in favour of the conversion of Enova so that the schemes become technology neutral. The left is for the examination of white certificates and favours competition between energy efficiency technologies. Like a market-based mechanism such as green certificates, the preferred instrument for new renewable energy for the Left, white certificates are an effective tool for extracting the energy efficiency potential of Norwegian construction. So I support Mr. Hemdal's representative in his expectations. But the Left also sees it as important that Enova has the opportunity to support technology development of immature technologies, and the Left takes it for granted that this proposal does not stop this kind of activity in Enova. Enova should have its own potential for technology development even if there is competition between mature technologies. As a concrete example, the Left believes that Enova, for example: should support plus-house pilot projects to demonstrate the feasibility of carrying out such ambitious but currently unprofitable projects. Research and development projects are important, but there should be nothing in the way of combining a technology neutral regime for the large volumes and targeting R & D actions against individual technologies. Therefore, the Left will support the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e747	I refer to my reply to the Storting in this matter at the beginning of November. The Government has chosen to organise energy efficiency improvement support schemes through the Energy Fund and Enova. Enova provides grants for technology development and investments in energy efficiency improvement in construction, plant, industry and renewable power and heat production. The project is diverse in size and technology. In the agreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Enova, the aim of Enova’s management of the Energy Fund is to promote the long-term development of renewable energy markets and energy efficiency improvement. Enova manages a wide range of instruments. In this context, I would also like to refer to the evaluation of Enova, which was presented to the Stortinget in Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011. The government is committed to improving the energy efficiency of the building stock. In June 2010, Enova established a new and broader programme offer in the market area housing, construction and civil engineering. This includes both support schemes and various forms of advisory services. In addition to Enova’s energy efficiency improvement activities, other instruments are important, such as technical regulations, managed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, at the heart of this work. Energy efficiency improvement is a long-term work and a stable framework is essential for the effectiveness of the effort and the long-term achievement of the desired results. The selection of projects supported by Enova takes place within the framework of the agreement between the Ministry and Enova and the specific objectives set by the Stortinget. The projects that deliver the highest energy output per year. support crown, prioritized. This model provides significant activity in all areas of activity. I also believe that there is a high degree of technology neutrality in this model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e758	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e761	There is an impression from the Council of State and some red-green representatives that today's technology system is neutral, because it must therefore support the projects that produce the most results. But that's a truth with modifications, because the government has defined away some technologies, not because they're not green, or because they're not saving technology, but simply because the government thinks they're cheap, they're too prominent in the market already. This may be an argument, but then it is more a argument that one will contribute to regulating competition between technologies than there is a argument that one will maximise energy saving. Then my question is – and it's going to be basically: does the Council of State think it's more important to stimulate the technological breadth of the market than it is to stimulate the total energy saving volume?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e767	I think, first of all, we can agree on what government and government parties here mean, because I used the term "great degree of technology neutrality," and I believe that others have. I believe that Mr Solvik-Olsen is in agreement with that. I can use an example that's been a lot of progress, that just shows this problem. There has been a strong focus on the fact that you should provide support for the purchase of wood stoves. Furnaces are something that is close to a central part. It's a good way to improve the energy use of the house, but at the same time it's relatively reasonable investments that are involved in the individual house. There are large volumes that are traded each year, and if one, for example. would have gone into and done something there, it would in practice have taken the budgets we have in this area now. I do not think it is right to go in and support measures that are being implemented smoothly and thoughtfully, but rather to spend the money on reducing the financial threshold on good energy efficiency measures that would otherwise perhaps not have been implemented, because it is located in border countries for what a private person, for example. consider it profitable, and consider it appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e774	I understand the logic of the Council of State, but I still want to challenge him, because the economic frontier country will vary from person to person, from income to income. What is possible for Rimi-Hagen to do in his building by getting away the oil burner and getting environmentally friendly energy there, will not be possible for anyone else. But those who call us at Stortinget and complain that the electricity bill is now NOK 2000 more than normal, or NOK 4000 more than normal, in any case cannot afford the large capital charges, but they might have done something with their wood stove or got an air-to-air heat pump if they had received support there. But drilling for geothermal or air to water is something they can't afford anyway. Thus, you had received a higher rate of replacement even if it had been within more conventional technologies than drilling after heat. After all, Jøtul and other wood stove manufacturers in Norway could have enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e779	Yes, I think a lot of forest producers, who are close to my homeland politically, in isolation, would think it was a good measure. But you have to go in and look at the value of money, that is, the use of resources, the use of money against what you get back. I think the representative of Solvik-Olsen is quite right in that there are good examples of individuals and individual businesses, businesses that would have benefited from a scheme that had a larger economic scale, which had a wider scope. But one does not escape the need to balance economic considerations against what one then loses the ability to introduce new technologies, to implement other measures. I can take it one step further and problematize a little about the isolation of the house, the replacement of windows. There are also good examples of fantastic, sensible energy efficiency measures. If you go into it, we're talking about relatively large amounts, if you're going to think that there's also an area in which the state is going to involve itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e786	For the Right, energy efficiency is important, and we are also committed to using new technologies to achieve a greater degree of energy efficiency. That is why we are concerned by the postponement or repeated postponement of the implementation of automatic meter reading systems and the organisation of two-way communication between the consumer and the energy company. In the Council's answer to my question of 7 September 2010, he said the following: ‘The introduction of AMS in Norway has long been high on the political agenda. I have great faith that two-way communications between network companies and consumers will raise awareness of energy consumption and also provide incentives for energy saving." We fully agree with that. My question to the Council of State is if he is in conversation with, among others. The NVE sees that the implementation of the AMS in Norway is faster than in 2018, which is now outlined, and which is much later than in other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e800	My answer to the question is yes. So I think it's important to elaborate and nuance the 2018 term, because neither the NVE nor the government is going to wait until 14 days before that date and then install the AMS across the country. We're talking about a process towards a date. I am concerned that we are starting as soon as possible. I look at the possibility that you can do it in different ways when it comes to starting this, and I believe exactly the same thing as the representative Meling when it comes to how good the two-way communication is. Then I'm back where I started. The answer is yes, and I am concerned that we should look at the possibilities to get started as quickly as possible. And we're going to be done by 2018, we're not going to start just until 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e809	In its contribution to Enova’s new scheme in the summer, the Council of State showed that more efforts were being made to improve energy efficiency. Now we have an agreement with Sweden on green certificates. We're getting a renewable directive in place in a short time, I hope. In the majority comment that I referred to in my post, it says: ‘The majority believe that energy efficiency improvement could become an even more central focus of Enova after the entry into force of this market.’ This market is for green certificates. On Monday's budget debate, the Council of State responded in a reply to the question of the Enova 'having great ambitions'. That's great. Is it possible for the Council of State to deepen some of these major ambitions regarding the role of Enova as an important player in the field of energy efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e823	I have great ambitions for Enova in two ways for 2011. Firstly, Enova will manage a budget that they have never managed before, a large budget. We have put in place a good framework for Enova's business. In addition, I imagine an Enova that in 2011 focuses its business on heat, energy efficiency improvement and technology development. There is an opportunity for Enova to carry out more projects and, at the same time, to be even better on the advisory page, to be in and use its skills to help and work with companies, businesses, to find solutions that are good and that lead to applications – which through it lead to concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e830	I am pleased that the Council of State wants to introduce the AMS as quickly as possible. Now we know that ‘as fast as possible’ is a relative concept, and perhaps in particular for this government. After all, we have been waiting for green certificates to be implemented ‘as quickly as possible’, and we have been waiting to resolve the power crisis in Central Norway, which is to be resolved ‘as quickly as possible’. Many challenges are unsolved, even if they should be solved ‘as quickly as possible’. Then my question to the Council of State is what it really means for him to initiate the introduction of the AMS ‘as quickly as possible’. What is the concrete time perspective, not for the end date, but for the start date, is what the Council of State has in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e837	Had I had that date ready, I had published it and commented on it in previous articles and previous answers. We've been to this topic for a number of different line changes in the hall. What this is about is balancing the desire to put AMS in place with a security that the solutions adopted are the final solutions that our neighbouring countries will also choose and that are within the EU standards. There aren't things finally settled. There's still some processes to go on there, and we have to deal with that. But when we have clarity about it, I believe that there is no reason to sit still and wait for 2018 to come. Then I believe that ‘as quickly as possible’ is an offensive approach to this, an offensive approach, and that is what both the NVE and the ministry are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e844	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1982]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e865	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e874	I refer to Innst. 126 S from the Energy and Environment Committee on the proposal from the Progress Party on a comprehensive strategy for CO2 management. The government's plan and starting point on the issue of CO2 capture and storage are contained in the Soria Moria declaration. It is an important objective of the government to contribute to the capture and storage of CO2. Furthermore, the Stortinget, as close as the Advance Party, has joined the climate agreement, which is also clear on CO2 capture and storage. In letter to the Energy and Environment Committee on 10 November 2010, the Council of State presented the government's strategy for CO2 capture and storage. I would like to highlight some elements of the CO2 bet that are particularly important for the Workers' Party. The IEA estimates that the world’s energy demand will be about 50 pst. higher in 2030 than today. In order to meet the global climate challenges, it is therefore important to put in place technologies that allow sustainable use of energy. CO2 capture and storage will be one of the most important measures to meet the growth of energy demand while reducing emissions. CLIMIT is the national programme for the research, development and demonstration of CO2 capture and storage technologies. The CLIMIT programme constitutes a central instrument for the Norwegian effort to capture and store CO2. In the 2011 budget, approximately 176 million were added. kr to CLIMIT. The demonstration part of the programme is financed by the return of the Gas Technology Fund and disposed of by Gassnova. The R & D part is financed by the State budget and made available by the Research Council. This government is making a major effort to capture and store CO2. We work both in Norway and internationally for a faster uptake of capture and storage technologies. Projects for the management of CO2 are complex and there will always be uncertainty in the handling of new fractures. As regards the project at Mongstad, the government has announced that it will come back to Stortinget with a case about this. It will then be a good opportunity to join in and debate it. The government has created a plan for the capture and storage of CO2. A number of R & D and demonstration initiatives have been launched. Technologies in this area are still largely untapped on a larger scale. The Government is responsible for a necessary technology development in the field of CO2 capture and storage. Government policy is based on a thorough, knowledge-based strategy. This is particularly important in such cases, which are usually expensive, and have major implications. I note that in these cases solutions are still presented from the opposition, where consideration for the environment, the polluter-pays principle and long-termity are within a slightly varying range. There is also reason to note that the opposition does not agree on these issues. The majority of the Committee argues that this proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e936	I would like to start by promoting the proposal that the Progress Party is in favour of. So I regret that the proposal is not accepted by the government parties. Then I remember what the Minister of Energy said in the first row change, about the need for an energy message, that information, facts or experiences tend to appear that makes what was agreed earlier, perhaps need to be changed, because a decision only applies to a new decision. This is a typical example of that -- not because someone from the opposition wants to sabotage or train what's happening, but simply because we think it's possible to get it into a better course than the one we have today. We think there's a greater chance of success by choosing a different direction, other means. That is why Stortinget must be able to hold a debate on the strategy. There is certainly also disagreement in the opposition parties about what is the best strategy, but I note that it is the jam in the government parties as well. So that's not an argument against the proposal. There is a need to take a small stop, a breath in the ground, and lift your eyes to see if the course is correct. It can be done without one delaying what is happening in Mongstad, because it is Gassnova who administers. We can't adopt success, stressing the red-green parties. As I said, I fully agree with that. This is a technology that needs to be developed. But experience shows that what the government laid down in Soria Moria I has been scrapped — all of it. One was supposed to clean Kårstø in 2009. You're not going to have to do that anymore. Later – after Soria Moria was adopted – one came up with a new plan. A technology for cleaning at Mongstad was then to be developed by 2014. One shall no longer be purified by 2014 – it shall be suspended. The costs associated with the test centre are now estimated at 6 billion. kr, and it increases for each time the Prime Minister mentions it. They're saying it's going to be 4 billion. kr for the design of full-scale cleaning – a technology that does not know what to do. We don't know what this is going to be, but we're going to need up to 4 billion. kr on design. In 2006 it was about the realization of a gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden. Shell and Statoil joined forces to get an overall value chain for CO2 management. Then the first Red-Green Minister of Energy, Odd Roger Enoxen, said that he was sure of a realization of the project. It was in March 2006. The Prime Minister stated in an NTB message at the beginning of March that he was not only sure of the project, but he expected that this could be carried out without State contributions. The project is scrambled. All the visions that this government has had have have been destroyed or exposed. This is a sign that one should take a strategy debate, not just have an annual report for the Stortinget. Because that means that the government informs, but it won't be room and time for a proper debate. It is not stated when an additional item is to be dealt with in the budget – therefore this matter here. We know that there are many exciting things happening beyond what the government is doing. Hammerfest Energy and Saga Petroleum promoted a concession request many years ago to build gas power plants with cleaning on Melkøya. They were repudiated by this government, which requires cleaning on all concessions. Siemens has recently said that they want to enter Mongstad, but it will require considerable costs that Gassnova does not have the money to cover. Aker Clean Carbon questions the amine debate in Norway and indicates that they are involved in a major project to be implemented in Scotland. This is not discussed by today's government. Recently, Industrial Power More has also come on the track again. They have been granted a concession, but they have an emission permit that requires cleaning from day one, but the state has said that one should not enter and contribute. It's the same thing as saying that gas power plant is not going to be realized. Then there is a golden opportunity for this Kingdom to improve the strategy that all the parties have set themselves behind. So we're here with a government that says, well, we're going to spend 25 billion. kr on the full scale cleaning at Mongstad sometime in the future, and we're going to spend 4 billion. kr to project it, but as a government we refuse to discuss whether we can rather participate in and realize a similar private capital risk project in More and Romesdal. To me, it's quite eye-catching. If private capital is willing to take a risk on the principle of ‘no cure, no pay’ at a much lower cost than the cost of Mongstad, I think it is special that the Prime Minister in the Questionnaire yesterday said no, in any case this should happen in Mongstad. We have to be able to take that kind of debate, because we allow the government to premise the debate with the fact that one does not include the proposal, but simply ask the government to come to the Stortinge with such a debate. In such a debate, one should also discuss whether there are possibilities for the use of CO2. There are many places where the use of CO2 is being researched in a commercial value chain. That would make it even more interesting for private capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e964	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e967	Research and development of CO2 capture and storage technologies must aim at developing solutions that more than the world's richest countries can afford to implement. It is important to reduce national emissions. Norway should demonstrate that it is possible to combine economic growth and high living standards with low emissions and a modest ecological footprint. In a global context, however, Norwegian emissions are entirely marginal. Our commitment to technology development in CCS must therefore be to make a difference internationally. In view of our role as a major oil and gas exporter, we have a joint responsibility to contribute to this. A national CO2 management strategy will clarify how best to achieve the objectives of, on the one hand, clean national emissions and, on the other, contribute to the realisation of cost-effective technologies with international applicability. At the same time, a comprehensive plan for CCS in Norway will also help clarify the future of the technology centre in Mongstad, which has a significant potential as a centre for testing and further development of CCS technology for decades to come. The right has consistently supported — and continues to be — a strong public commitment to research and development of clean-up technologies for power generation from fossil energy sources. However, Norway does not have unlimited resources for any purpose — nor does it. That's why it's essential that we get the most back for the resources we put in. The first full scale sewage treatment plant in Norway should therefore be realised where it has the highest learning value and the lowest cost. The government announced in the 2011 draft State Budget that the price of power plant cleaning at Mongstad is estimated at 20-25 billion. kr. There is a lot of money — and probably deterrent to other countries and actors assessing CCS in climate change. The government has also, wise of harm, warned that the investment decision may be further postponed due to technological and economic complications. To date, the decision has been postponed until 2014, with expected completion in 2018 at the earliest. The government also opens up to assess full-scale clean-up technologies other than the amine-based one. All of this shows how demanding it is to build a full-scale plant on a hot plant inside a refinery area. Concert director at SINTEF, Torstein Haarberg, believes there is hardly any more expensive place in the world to build such a facility than in Mongstad. The high costs and the fact that the plant will hardly be finished in 10 years’ time make defending the investments difficult. The value of Norway and the world decreases as the price rises and the project goes out in time. The right is committed to its obligations in the climate agreement. Thus, there is no doubt that our ambition to clean Mongstad and other large point emissions in Norway is solid. However, it is absolutely necessary to have a cross-policy plan on how best to meet that ambition, while increasing the learning value of national and international CCS projects. There is relatively broad agreement outside this house that it is hardly possible to satisfy the climate agreement if we base the government's strategy and timetable. That's why the time has come to think new. We note that the willingness to implement concrete climate action has proved very limited in the government parties, but the right still has hope that the government can participate and contribute to a more offensive CCS strategy. When maps and terrains separate layers, it's wisest to follow the terrain. Therefore, the right considers that the first full-scale sewage treatment plant in Norway should be realized as quickly and as reasonably as possible in a new gas power plant. It must be more important for the world to realize a plant quickly – perhaps already in 2014 – than to realise it in Mongstad in 2018 or later. The realization of a full-scale clean-up integrated from day one will be technologically ground-breaking, and the experience gained from the construction and operation of such a facility may also enable the retrofit facility in Mongstad to be realised cheaper and faster. There is no doubt that the state must contribute to the realisation of the first full-scale treatment plant in the world. It's strange that the government parties don't see the paradox that you're willing to pay 25 billion. kr to clean half a gas power plant at Mongstad in 2018 or later, but not interested in contributing a fraction to a plant that may be completed already in 2014. The representative Serigstad Valen has previously been very concerned with the cost of such an installation. I hope he can support the principle that the state can and should contribute to this phase, and we can later discuss whether or not the ageing will take place through government budget appropriations, new taxes or other means. Finally, it is important that a future CCS strategy for Norway be seen in the context of EU plans for a common infrastructure for CCS. We should also use funding models that clearly limit the financial liability of taxpayers and the responsibilities of the State in relation to technological risks. Open international bidding rounds based on the no cure, no pay principle must form the basis for the realisation of future sewage treatment plants in Norway. Essential in a national strategy for CCS must also be solutions that meet the need for the transport and storage of CO2 and a plan for the future use of the technology centre in Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1011	CO2 cleaning is a very central part of the solution to the problem of anthropogenic climate change, and it has not been so many years since science fiction was seen. Nor has it been so many years since man-made climate change was the least of them concerned about – some parties even thought it was something that the left-hand side had found along with the environmental movement. CO2 treatment must be applied to thousands of emission points in the world over not so many years. One thing is to have a clean-up on new emission points – which I perceive, for example. The representative Astrup is very concerned that it will reduce the price of cleaning projects – another thing is that very much of what we are going to clean in the world is installations that are already in operation. It's refineries, it's power plants and it's industrial plants that already emit a lot of CO2, where we have to retrofit clean-up. So far, no one has completed in the world on major issues. That means that the Mongstad project is highly relevant to a lot more than Mongstad, because Mongstad, as the representative Astrup and others have been inside and said quite correctly, is a very difficult facility to clean. And that also shows the process to now. These are technical challenges. It's economic challenges. Gassnova considers amine technology to be so far chosen in Mongstad as the most mature technology for CO2 cleaning. However, that technology has, as we know, challenges in terms of the health risk of nitrosamine emissions to air, as part of the cleaning process. There's another thing we have to take the time to look at and make sure that we have control over when we build a sewage treatment plant. This takes time, this is complicated, and it's very expensive. But that's not an argument in itself that the project is not a failure, that it is on the wrong course, or that you should move this project elsewhere. You can choose different approaches to the status of Mongstad now. I have noticed that the opposition is almost going in every direction on this issue, from wanting to eliminate what is called strangernose requirements for CO2 cleaning from day one in the construction of new power plants in Norway, to want to build more gas power plants in Norway with cleaning from day one, where the state will pay. It is also an interesting ideological approach from the ideological wing of the Stortinget, which usually tends to measure that polluter pays, that the State will take a number of clean-up bills in the future. I think that's interesting. Then it's also that Mongstad is proposed to move to most places eventually. I have noticed that the Left wants to move the Mongstad project to Kårstø. Right wants to move the Mongstad project to Elnesvågen. Personally, I am very excited about the plans for a CO2-free gas power plant in Elnesvågen that can help solve the power problems in the region, but I also note that the Right has used my games about it to spread disinformation about what SV thinks about the matter. What I'm doing is taking the natural consequence that the government has given concession to a gas power plant in Elneswagen, and that it is to be cleaned from day one. And then there's no secret that I think there should be room for using the CO2 tax as a more active tool to trigger profitability in several cleaning projects in this country, and I hope that's one of the things we can discuss in the context of the climate communication. The representative of Solvik-Olsen says we have to stop, raise our eyes and take a status statement. That is what we do when the government has announced that it will return to Stortinget in a short time with an update on the Mongstad project. We have a CO2 management plan in Norway. It's to clean Mongstad and Kårstø. I record that other parties are trying to doubt the government's intentions. I am committed to achieving the goals we have set in the climate agreement, and then there are many emissions to be cut in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1048	Initially, I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) made a proposal in Stortinget on an action plan for CO2 management from high point emissions in industry. The cleaning of high point emissions in industry is one of the most effective and targeted measures to achieve large national emission reductions. At present, there are more than 10 industrial installations in Norway with annual emissions of more than 400000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The State is the joint owner of six of these industrial plants. This allows for the implementation of cooperation projects on CO2 capture and storage. But then we need a completely different and more comprehensive approach to the government's CO2 management. CO2 management has become a child of pain for the sitting government, and such things evolve in Mongstad and Kårstø, it may seem as if we've only seen the beginning. The government's promised moon landing will be remembered as a historical bellyplaque. The big accident was that you started working at the wrong end. Mongstad and Kårstø were built first, and then you had to clean afterwards. One of the arguments now used to explain the postponement in Mongstad is that this is a hot plant operating within a refinery area. It gets a little comical cut over it, because this shouldn't be a news for the government. Now that you see that things don't go completely as intended, it's obviously not that dangerous anymore, either. The representative, Serigstad Valen, has said in Romsdal's bid that there would be no defeat for SV if there were to be a sewage treatment plant in Fränna before at Mongstad, and the representative has repeated the same in previous speeches in this debate. The representative, Mr Marthinsen, said in the budget debate here on Monday that ‘there is no record of full-scale cleaning in one of these locations having to be realised first’. In the case of ‘these places’, she refers to Kårstø and Mongstad. The Soria Moria Declaration says that the State should contribute financially to the CO2 treatment of gas power plants. No one, however, wants to clarify what this means. Stakeholders ask whether this contribution involves 1 pst. or 100 pst. of the costs, or whether the authorities are willing to guarantee a fixed price per tonne of CO2 delivered fully purified from a gas or coal power plant. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a more holistic approach to CO2 management in Norway. An overall issue from the government on CO2 strategy could help put resource use on Kårstø and Mongstad in perspective for other projects. With the great delays we are now looking at Mongstad, we are no longer talking about a moon landing. Norway is now far from accepting the original idea of assuming a responsibility for building and realizing one of the very first full-scale CO2 clean-up plants in the world. We are well in the process of getting back into the waste, delivering responsibility and costs for technology development to other countries. Instead of recycling the same money every year in the budget of a project that is still being postponed, the government should now open up to take the bill for the clean-up of CO2 elsewhere. Much indicates that it will be much cheaper to build the power plant and the sewage treatment plant in parallel, and that it will not be built on potentially explosive refineries. As an example, Industrialkraft Møre has been granted a concession to realize a gas power plant in Elnesvågen in Fränna, requiring CO2 capture from the first day. The Christian People's Party believes that the government should open the way for the construction of a new gas power plant, preferably in central Norway, provided that the requirements for cleaning from day one and that the State takes the bill for the sewage treatment plant. The requirement to clean Kårstø and Mongstad must remain firm. There must be no doubt about it, believes the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a representative we are now debating, and asks the government to promote a matter of a comprehensive plan for CO2 management in Norway, so that we get a little perspective on this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1104	I want to justify why the Left wants to vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. The representative of Solvik-Olsen went through history. Of course, I'm not going to repeat it. And then it's right, as Snorre Serigstad Valen said in his post, that the Left has arranged to see if Kårstø should be taken out of the drawer to realize a CO2 capture plant that can get in place faster, become cheaper and clean more CO2 than in Mongstad. The left considers that there is a weakness in the tools used by the government today to achieve the objectives of full implementation of CCS. The petroleum activity on land has approximated no CO2 emission cost, while the petroleum activity on the base has a total cost of allowances and CO2 tax, which is only about half of what it was in 1998, corrected for inflation. Future allowance cost expectations are low and the emission permits granted do not impose strict enough requirements. The left believes it is high time to introduce better instruments to cut emissions from the major sources of emissions in Norway. Only the gas power projects at Kårstø and Mongstad have a promise from the government to cover the costs of CCS. Apart from these promises, there are few incentives for emission owners to make sure that CCS actually takes place. Other emission sources that may be well suited to CCS, such as the Grenland industry, have no practical means of doing CCS. After the large increases in the cost of CCS projects, it is also little time to make new promises to implement several projects funded by the State budget, as has been done for Kårstø and Mongstad. Climate change 2020 shows that the potential for CO2 reductions in industry, offshore installations and gas power stations is high. Climate change also shows that it will be difficult and expensive to implement the climate agreement adopted by the Stortinge if no action is taken at the large point emission sources. The situation is the same worldwide. The fourth main report of the IEA and the OECD of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has established that CCS on a large scale is a crucial climate action for the implementation of adequate global emission reductions. The 2009 IEA CCS Roadmap outlines the need for 100 full-scale clean-up plants in operation by 2020 and 3400 installations by 2050. The National Audit Office recently presented a report, indicating that there were few climate change mitigation measures on Norwegian soil, and the measures that are possible within the current framework have already been triggered. A CO2 infrastructure and hubs in strategic locations to connect to existing and new emission sources are necessary to ensure that we can continue to operate industry in Norway with an increasingly tight climate regime. If good framework conditions and an overall plan for CO2 capture are put in place to realise CCS projects and future emission-free industrial production, it will be important industrial policy and will provide a good basis for further investment in industrial activity in Norway. Therefore, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal for a comprehensive CO2 management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1147	The world is facing major global warming challenges, while increasing demand for energy. In order to address these challenges in parallel, it is essential to put in place technologies that allow sustainable use of energy. CO2 capture and storage will be one of the main measures to meet the growth of energy demand while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. An important part of the national strategy for CO2 management is to build up knowledge and experience for the creation of projects in Norway and to focus on research and development. The aim is for Norway to have a leading role in this, and for us both in Norway and internationally to have CO2 management as a strong measure to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. The majority of this Norwegian bet is on Mongstad, and it's going to happen in two steps. The technology center for CO2 capture, which is now under construction, is the first step in this effort. The further implementation of the project must be carried out in an economically and technically sound manner. It is foreseen that the work on qualifying amine technologies will continue, so that these technologies can meet the emission requirements for amines that will be set in the future. At the same time, the government will consider whether alternative solutions should be used for the further implementation of the project, including possible opening of alternative technologies. This may lead to a longer period of time for the start-up of project planning. The objective is to ensure a sound investment base. As notified in Prop. 1 S and Prop. 35 S for 2010–2011, the government will come back to Stortinget with a closer review of the CO2 capture work at Mongstad. The government aims to do this early next year. It is essential that environmentally safe CO2 deposits are identified, matured and certified. With the Sleipner and Snow White field, Norway has unique competence in storing CO2 in geological formations. The government has launched a CO2 transport and storage project to ensure that CO2 from Mongstad is transported and stored safely. The starting point is that a transport and storage solution shall be capable of being ready for start-up of the planned full-scale clean-up system. In addition, a major effort has been undertaken under the direction of the Oil Directorate, linked to a wide-ranging monitoring of potential CO2 deposits on Norwegian soil. Research, development and demonstration of technologies for the capture and storage of CO2 from fossil-based power generation and industry are central to the further work on CO2 management and are ensured through the national CLIMIT programme. The CLIMIT programme supports a wide range of research and industrial actors and thus contributes to the development of new and existing technologies. CO2 management projects are very complex and they are resource-intensive. Swallowing the construction work is in full swing at the technology centre and planning of the full-scale clean-up plant is ongoing at Mongstad is the concrete initiative still at an initial stage. It is important to take advantage of the concrete experience of the existing investment in Mongstad. In addition to work at Mongstad, knowledge and experience from transport and storage activities and from CLIMIT’s research and development on capture technology will form the basis for the further development of CO2 management in Norway. The government's national and international commitment to CO2 management is regularly reported in the context of the budgetary proposals handled by the Storting throughout the year. In addition, the Stortinget has received extensive information in relation to the decision to establish Gassnova SF, cf. St. pp. No 49 for 2006-2007, cooperation and management of CO2 in Mongstad, and the Stortinget agreed to take investment decisions for the Technology Centre, cf. St. pp. No 38 for 2008-2009, Investment in CO2 management technology centre in Mongstad. I believe that the Storting in this way is being kept well informed about the government's strategies and efforts in CO2 management, and, as mentioned above, will also come back to Stortinget with a wide review of this work quickly in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1224	There's talk of one having a plan, but that plan is strictly limited to Mongstad, not to the national that I'm trying to raise my eyes to, that's to look at the other possibilities, the potentials, which are in Norway. So what's going to be the question is what's most important to this government. Is it time, or is it the place? The progress party has been very sceptical that we should adopt a time for a technology to be developed. But if actors outside come with a technology that turns out to be more mature than what a sheep do in Mongstad, it would be natural to say that time is more important than place. If actors at their own risk say that we can build this, but if it doesn't work, we don't have to charge, but it works, we have to have a carrot at the other end: then time is more important than place. Does the Council of State agree with such a thought? Or is Mongstad so important to the government that one will automatically choose away all options if it doesn't happen in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1231	I have no personal prestige attached to a place. I have a significant commitment to realize the first major CCS project in Norway. I disagree very much with what was said by the representative Hemdal instead, who insisted that we are barely close to being in charge in this area internationally. That's wrong. What we do in Norway is very interesting globally. We note that there is a constant follow-up to decisions, decisions and processes in Norway around this also from the international level. After choosing Mongstad, it's based on a desire and a plan to implement a concrete project. So it's like, as the representative says, that there are other proposals coming up in this process as well. I think it's important to remind each other of one thing about this -- that's that once we've worked through the Mongstad project, we also meet the concrete challenges that lie in it. In the other projects we haven't come that far yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1238	There may well be little doubt that the value of the full-scale clean-up project in Mongstad is falling as the price rises, and that the project is drawing out in time. A question to the Council of State could then be whether there is any pain limit for the Council of State for what you are willing to pay before you realize that you have to get the price down before going on. Now the price has increased significantly in the last year. It's probably almost doubled per tonne of CO2, so it could be a nearby question to ask. Another is the fact that the State could be willing to support the realisation of a gas power plant with purification elsewhere already now, based on the principle referred to by the representative Solvik-Olsen, namely ‘no cure, no pay’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1248	To continue with the answer I started with the representative Solvik-Olsen, which is also in the representative Astrup's question: it is important to get the level of detail of the Mongstad project compared to other projects. In Mongstad we have now worked deep into the details, we are working on implementing agreements with Statoil. One has gradually a good overview of small and large problems — challenges further in the project. It brings challenges to seeing costs and time-use and technological challenges. In the other projects that have been discussed in Norway, we have not come this far. Therefore, I would like to warn you a little bit against comparing the Mongstad project with other projects per day, because the maturity of the projects and the knowledge of, the knowledge of, the challenges are so different. There will certainly be challenges related to other possible CCS projects in Norway that are not known today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1253	The undersigned is very pleased that the Council of State says that we will have a case about Mongstad early next year. I think that's very clever. Yes, we're spending money on CO2 cleaning, although in the debate on a matter earlier today, it turned out that 70 pst. the year’s appropriations are not used. But we're spending money. As regards Kårstø, the Council of State told the undersigned in May that he needed some time before he could come back to Stortinget with a matter of cleaning. Now we get the answer that it comes in the climate announcement next autumn. But the Soria Moria statement, which I referred to in my post, says that we should contribute financially to CO2 clean-up plants at gas power plants. My question in this context is, with the challenges we face in Mongstad, and with the challenges we face in Kårstø, what lies in the Soria Moria Declaration, which is the government's basis of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1268	What lies both in Soria Moria and in the practical policies we implement is that we spend more money on the capture and storage of CO2 than it has ever been done in Norway. We are in a historical period of technology development in this area. We have a work going on that will result in the most concrete so far in addressing climate problems related to fossil energy use. So I think this is very ambitious. And then we've said that the Mongstad project and what we're working on right now is big, and that's technologically challenging, so now we're focusing on it in the first place. So it's not an end point, it's not the end of a bet related to the capture and storage of CO2, but I think we're going to recognize together how much lifting it is we've taken on, which codes are going to break, how much technology development it's really about when we're going to realize a full-scale CO2 clean-up project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1284	I think the answers from the Council of State get a little confusing, because at my discretion he mixes the test centre work together and the full-scale cleaning. So we haven't made an investment decision about full scale cleaning in Mongstad yet. It shall be done in 2014 at the earliest. What we have committed ourselves to is a test centre, and no one in this room is challenging in this debate. The test facility creates interest. But full scale cleaning – this is where we ask: Will the government look beyond the Mongstad project if there comes an actor who is not known today, with a technology that the government does not know about today, but that in the chamber has invented something that the government has not thought about? How, then, will that actor be treated? Will he be able to get the same terms as Statoil is given at Mongstad, or will he be laid out in a vacuum, because they don't suit the government to have someone who can challenge Mongstad? That is simply what the question is: Will another actor who comes with something new that is emerging in a way that actually makes it possible to realise it? Even if one comes with a project that's only 10 pst. of the costs of Mongstad, no one will realise it in Norway if there is no carrot at the other end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1291	Firstly, I do not agree with what Mr Solvik-Olsen says about international interest. I didn't mix the technology center with full-scale cleaning. There is also a strong international interest in the planning work on Mongstad related to full-scale cleaning. That's interesting. When it comes to continuing to work on different projects, I want to repeat what I said instead, which I believe is a clear message, that goes to see the value of the development work that has been done so far. There is something that says that the grass is often greener on the other side of the fence – it can at least work like that – and in this case it is easy to bend away because it seems that the technological challenges in Mongstad are growing. But we have to remember that if we go into other projects instead of Mongstad, it's not that they're simple. Challenges will arise for different CCS projects regardless of their location in Norway, nor will it arise if the country withdraws and there is only one tenderer, without challenges relating to contracts and the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1298	Governments are aware that challenges can also arise in other CCS projects – it goes without saying – and that we do not know those challenges and that planning has not progressed so far. All of that is known. Yet we also know that Mongstad is probably the most expensive place in the world to realize such a facility. We know that private actors believe it is possible to do this cheaper and faster elsewhere – much cheaper and much faster elsewhere. What they risk is private capital. The state will not enter with anything but a guaranteed amount in advance. The technological and economic risks, if unforeseen complications arise, lie with the private actors. Is then the State willing to enter a given amount in an open bidding round on a no cur, no pay basis, for example? in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1307	I think it's extremely important to get the different maturity that lies in the different projects. Some people are very sure today about how other projects could be implemented and what reliefs compared to complications would arise by choosing other solutions, etc. I think it's interesting that some people are relatively sure that there will be solutions that would be easier to implement. I've said many times before in this room that the Mongstad project is very demanding, and exactly what we're doing now is taking on technological challenges and making sure that the project is managed as well as possible in the future, in relation to economics and technology development. I also said in my post that just looking at the technology to be applied is part of the job we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1315	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1320	I think what comes out in the line change is quite revealing to the government's attitude. The opposition does not say that projects other than Mongstad are necessarily simpler than Mongstad. We're not saying that there's no problem. What we're asking is how the government will basically decide if there was a competitor who says, "We'll take the risk by building a CO2 cleaning plant before you build on Mongstad." How would the government deal with that? See, it would say, well, we're giving you funding, we're buying the CO2. We guarantee it if you get cleaned up. If you don't get it, you don't get any income. Then it's up to this competitor to decide if one will take this risk, if one believes in technology, and if problems arise along the way, of course, it's the competitor's challenge. That's not something we need to worry about. The government here refuses to decide, is whether to deal with other ideas at all, or whether to just look at their own problems and say that they are so big that no one else can come before us, because we refuse to believe that others have less problems than us. That's what the council says, and there's evidence that there's so much prestige in this that you can't look up and see the whole thing. That, I think, hurts Norwegian strategy in this area more than it does. Yes, I am fully aware that there is also an interest in full scale cleaning in Mongstad, but no decision has been made. What's interesting is just as much Norwegian willingness to pay 25 billion. kr for what is the belief that it actually succeeds. These include: comments made by the Americans in the United States about Stephen Chu's visit to Mongstad. So a comment to the representative Serigstad Valen: The government has a plan at Mongstad. They don't have a plan for Norway. That's the opposition's claim. That is why we are promoting this proposal. And then it's also wrong to create the impression that now there are some opposition parties that are in free movement, from suddenly being against everything to suddenly wanting the state to finance as much as possible. The Progress Party has had a principle throughout this debate, from which it began to become a theme in 2002 in the Climate Communication where SV in its position said that CO2 clean technology is very complex and was more negative than the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, and it has been that we need to see two parallel projects. Those who are granted a gas power plant concession will be given CO2 clean-up without obligations, because they will be included in the same EU framework, which means they will receive CO2 costs in line with their competitors – no more, no less. So now any state requirement for CO2 clean-up should be something that the state also takes the guarantees to finance. That's exactly what the government finally ended up with in Mongstad – and it's so hard to say that it's going to apply elsewhere, I don't understand, unless the government actually doesn't want competition in Mongstad. The Progress Party wants it to be possible for an operator to see what the costs and revenues are in building gas power plants, and then it is desirable to require CO2 clean-up. But then we have to do as the Christian People's Party has said, which the Progress Party supports – and therefore the climate issue is over between us – namely, that the state takes responsibility for the costs beyond the CO2 quota system. The Prime Minister himself has said that it doesn't matter whether we have CO2 clean requirements in Norway, because everything goes under the European quota system anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1360	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1982]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1376	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1385	The Left Representative's proposal for measures to strengthen preparedness in the event of oil drilling accidents and large sea depth production has come into the wake of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, where unfortunately we experienced a tragic incident in which eleven lives were lost and where we had an acute blast of large amounts of oil. The proposal of the left contains four points: Paragraph 1 concerns the establishment of a technology development programme with the compulsory participation of industry and where these are to be provided with all the necessary resources. In paragraph 2, it is requested that the government establish a selection to reveal the necessary changes to the conditions on Norwegian soil as a result of experience in the Gulf of Mexico. In paragraph 3, it is requested that the granting of new exploration and extraction permits be suspended pending the implementation of paragraph 2 of the proposal. Finally, in paragraph 4, an obliging oil protection plan is requested along the coast based on the experience of the Mexico Gulf accident. With the exception of the Christian People's Party, the majority's proposal for a decision is that this proposal for a representative should not be accepted. I am pleased that there is nevertheless an overall committee that is behind all the comments in this matter. The Mexicogolf accident, in which «Deepwater Horizon» sank, is a reminder that there is a risk associated with all activity, and that it is therefore important that we have a constant focus on how to further develop standards of health, environment and safety on Norwegian pedestal, and also on how best to maintain oil protection. This concern is shared by both authorities and industry. As early as 7 May 2010, the Petroleum Control set up an internal project team to look at the conditions associated with this accident that Norway could learn from. This project group is also in direct contact with the US authorities. It is announced by the government that the experience of this accident, among other things, will be included in the Ministry of Labour’s Annual Report on Health, Environment and Safety at Work, which is planned to be promoted during the spring 2011 session. The industry has also worked on these issues, including: through a dedicated industrial initiative such as the Norwegian oil and gas industry through the OLF, the Landsforening of the Oil Industry Association, started as a follow-up project following the ‘Deepwater Horizon’ accident. This project shall gather relevant information from review reports and other sources to assess the impact this should have on the Norwegian industry and for Norwegian legislation. The project shall also assess the need for the development of new methods, standards and technologies to prevent or mitigate the consequences of similar accidents. This shows that both the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian industry see the seriousness of the event and the importance of both learning and developing our own safety requirements. Of course, an acute outburst of this magnitude has an impact on the environment — and, unfortunately, loss of life as well. However, it is worth noting that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration estimates that 74 pst. [[NOAA]] either of the oil has been collected, burned, naturally dissolved in water or evaporated. The Norwegian Veritas has had a review of 23 recorded events in the last 20 years, from 1987 to 2007, and concluded that most of these would not be possible on a Norwegian base because of our requirements for drilling operations. It's worth noting that 96 pst. of these events occurred in the American part of the Gulf of Mexico. Norway has among the world's most stringent safety requirements on the pedestal, perhaps we have the most stringent requirements. This has resulted in Norwegian companies and environments of expertise being used and contributors to finding solutions to both the acute discharge and the clean-up after the Mexico accident. Furthermore, both the US and other countries’ authorities have looked to Norway and our legislation and administration to further develop their own administrative and security regimes. I am pleased that the majority chooses not to endorse this proposal, and that the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian industry have taken an active stance to learn from the accident in order to further improve the safety level of Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1417	I agree with the rapporteur's statement and also think it is good that such a large majority support the conclusions of the vote. At the same time, I think it is good that an overall increase is concerned with the environment and how a large and important business activity can be combined with environmental protection. The incident in the Gulf of Mexico on 20 April this year and the accident with the drilling rig that burned and later sank, was a tragic event, where many lives were also lost, as described by the rapporteur. The destruction of the environment was also something for which they should have been saved. This clearly demonstrates the importance of the continuous development of technology and preparedness to prevent such accidents and to limit the damage in the event of an accident. Everyone has been served with strong demands on security and preparedness. At the same time, it should not be necessary for important industries to stop their activities in the event of accidents and accidents, unless there is a manifest breach of the provisions. Research and development can best be carried out together with real operation. It shows Norwegian petroleum history with all clarity. If Norway had not started its petroleum activity more than 40 years ago, neither would we have been world leaders in technology and security. The feedback from our oil and energy minister also shows that the experience of the accident we are talking about here, among other things. will be included in the Ministry of Labour’s Annual Report on Health, Environment and Safety at Work, which will be promoted in spring 2011. Like the rapporteur, I would also like to remind the Council of State that there is little activity on the Norwegian base in drilling on as deep water as in the Gulf of Mexico. At the same time, Norwegian capital is considered to be among the world’s highest security and preparedness requirements, as other countries have noted and will learn from. As the rapporteur stated, a large majority of the Committee considers that satisfactory action has been taken by the Norwegian authorities to draw lessons from the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Let me add for myself that I think we have enough samples and plans in this area. In my opinion, it is now important that the industry develop the technology further through continuous operation, and that safety and preparedness are continuously expanded, as we are all so concerned about. We all know the importance of the petroleum industry for employment and well-being in our country, and we all know how important the environment and nature – in the sea and on land – is for us who live here and for the rest of our business. Therefore, it should be in everyone's interest that these interests can also go hand in hand in hand in all parts of our country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1434	There is probably little disagreement on part of the intention of the proposal – in terms of strengthening preparedness, oil protection, reducing risk, etc. Nevertheless, there are some aspects that the Progress Party cannot stand behind, among other things. the proposal to suspend further activities until further notice. I am very pleased with the rapporteur's statement and agree with the previous speaker's comments. Health, environment and safety are important both for the individual working on the pedestal and for those living along the coast, but it is also important to ensure the legitimacy of this industry, both in Norway and globally. That's why there's something we definitely need to focus on and make strict demands around. The ‘Deepwater Horizon’ accident was serious and the consequences were partly extensive, but far from being as negative as part of the environmental movement desired, or at least claimed, while the accident lasted. It has been used quite cynically in some debates by both red and green government politicians. One has blackened the situation while the accident lasted in the United States – and the extent it would have. When the volume was not as a sermon, one began to blackmail what it would have been like if that accident had happened in Norway in a just identical field. When, in particular, the Minister of the Environment is one of the foremost promoters of that type of rhetoric, I am a little concerned about the seriousness of the government. It's also worth noting that at first Minister of Environmental Protection Solheim used the fact that it was a deep water well, as an argument that here we had to think about, stop business, because it was a huge challenge. Now the same Environment Minister says that we should be happy that it was a deep water well, because it did not make the accident as extensive as it could have been. The statement came in an NTB message, but also in response to a written question from the undersigned, who confirms that yes, he does. So he flips the argument about what's risk and what's an advantage. It shouldn't be like that. It is as relevant as when the government goes from saying that the Mongstad report to Statoil was first a guarantor that one would clean Mongstad in 2014, to saying that it was an argument that one could not do so in 2014. That's not how a government is supposed to handle information. The Environment Minister, Solheim, has also asked in a number of debates and newspaper articles whether Norway has the capacity to carry out a similar rescue operation, as the American did on the Deepwater Horizon. He has not provided an answer, and I think that is a bit alarming. When a Council of State asks such questions, he must obviously have doubts as to whether the government's policy will provide the capacity for the oil defence we believe is necessary. That's why I challenge the Minister of Energy to answer for the Council of State Solheim: Is it that Norway would have the capacity to carry out a similar rescue operation if we were to get the worst case scenario on Norwegian pedestal? If he answers no, will the government then file a case for the Storting where we strengthen oil protection and other necessary agencies, so that we can deal with it properly? It would also be interesting if the government would, or dared, present the reports received after the Deepwater Horizon accident and the Full City accident — as they themselves have reduced samples — so that the warnings, recommendations and conclusions of these samples can be taken into account. Some members of the government used the two accidents very actively in the debate on the Lofoten–Westerålen. It would be interesting to see if we have something that might look like some kind of fascination about whether the warnings from the members of the government were right or wrong, because it says a little bit about their credibility in the further debate. Then I register that the representative Arnesen says this is an important industry. I fully agree with that. I also reported that in the debate on CO2 cleaning, the Labour Party stressed that the IEA recommended a significant commitment to CO2 cleaning. This also means that the Workers' Party is drawing on the IEA's predictions for the use of gas in the world, which is to be increased in relation to today's level. I'm glad. This means that the government will not use any CO2 argument against the further development of the Lofoten-Westerålen areas or the Barents Sea areas. That is a good promise in the political debate. When we also know that the Central Party is trying to use the U.S. Embassy in this debate to ensure the opening of the Lofoten-Westerålen, I am a little happy to continue – and if the representative Rudihagen had been here, he could have probably enjoyed me for the second time today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1462	There is no doubt that the Deepwater Horizon accident was a very great tragedy. When such accidents occur, sensationally hungry media first pass on the pictures of the oil seal, the oil that hits the ground – we have pictures of oil-covered birds, etc. And all of this sometimes helps to obscure the fact that it was primarily a great tragedy in the form of loss of human life. I believe that was a sub-communicated part of that tragedy in ours. It is very important that we keep focussed on the safety of our socket – I will come back a little later. In this context, I think that there are rather inconvenient accusations made by the representative of Solvik-Olsen, both against environmental movements and political colleagues, when he suggests that the environmental movement hopes for as tragic a outcome as possible in a disaster that cost eleven lives. I think the Progress Party itself should be too good for that. It is also particularly important to hear the Progress Party – the party that has a party leader who is unable to respond simply yes or no to whether she acknowledges that man-made climate change is a problem, while having a representative in the Energy and Environment Committee who is involved in CO2 cleaning – instruct others in conflicting positions on important political issues. It's quite strange for me. The Deepwater Horizon accident in the Gulf of Mexico – and now I hope to escape the anger of the representative Solvik-Olsen – was an important reminder for those who want to open up oil drilling near the coast also in Norway. I think we can all agree on that. There was also a high level of anti-spare security among the players in the Gulf of Mexico. It was thought that there was no safety risk relevant to the oil business there. Unfortunately, it turned out to be wrong. For this reason, the authorities have acted quite correctly when reacting to the accident, as others have experienced: the Petroleum Authority set up a working group shortly after the accident, the Deepwater Horizon accident and the experience gained after that accident, will be part of the Ministry of Labour's public health, environment and safety report, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy put all the allocations on deep water on hold in the final concession round. So it's true that Norway is among the best and safest in the world in the oil industry. It may be extra worth remembering today when we read in the newspapers about, for example. countries like the United States of America. We don't have much to learn from the United States in oil policy. As for the way we have distributed wealth from the oil, the way we have managed security on a Norwegian base in and in many other areas, we are among the world's foremost. But there's no reason to be haughty. It shows both the events of Snorre A and Statfjord, and now last but not least the near disaster on Gullfak's C. I hope I won't be accused by the Progress Party because I've also been walking around and secretly hoping for a disaster there, which would cost the environment great damage, or cost human lives. On the contrary, the debate this autumn has been marked by many workers also on Norwegian pedestals, which despite the strict requirements we have in Norway, which despite the high self-confidence we have in the HMS area on Norwegian pedestal, have been concerned about their own health and concerns about the state of many of the installations on Norwegian pedestals are in. That is why this is a field we must follow closely in the future, and it is also important that the Petroleum Authority has a good and predictable framework in the future. In this way, I am very pleased that it seems – although I am in another committee – that the Progress Party has abandoned its idea of shutting down Petroleum Control, merging it with the Labour Inspectorate and bringing in the potential for efficiency. It was a very bad idea from the Progress Party, which I am glad they have gone away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1478	The representative proposal points to a particular serious event, and a goal for all of us must be to do our best to ensure that something like this never happens in our waters. The Deepwater Horizon accident was a strong reminder of the risk potential of oil business. We must take this seriously, both in the field of safety and preparedness on a Norwegian base, and when assessing new areas of petroleum industry. Accidents in the Gulf of Mexico were serious. 11 people lost their lives, huge amounts of oil polluted the seas and beaches. It is such that we have a great responsibility to ensure that they are added to the base and our sea area for the corresponding. The nature and the environment should be at the root of the activity on Norwegian soil. At the same time, it is absolutely fundamental that each person who has his daily work on a Norwegian base is entitled to a job as safe as possible. In the United States, the EU and Norway, there is a strong focus on finding out what happened on the Deepwater Horizon. We must learn lessons from the accident. As many people have pointed out, there are many who look closer to accidents now. We have to use that knowledge to prevent the corresponding episodes in our area. Norwegian Socket is considered to be one of the world's highest security and preparedness requirements. Norwegian companies helped in the run-up to accidents in the United States, and the United States will learn from our management and practice. That's what we're going to do, but that doesn't give us any reason to think that we're absolutely good enough. We must constantly be challenged to find better solutions and to strengthen preparedness here at home. We have from the Center Party's side taken the accident on the Deepwater Horizon and the danger of something similar in Norway in the deepest seriousness. The government, and also our state council, have said that the allocation of new drilling rights on deep water should wait until one knows more about what happened on the other side of the Atlantic. The knowledge of it will be central. In addition, the Central Party has stated that we believe that the oil industry should contribute even more to oil protection than they do today. I believe that a very good job is being done to improve the security and preparedness on a Norwegian base. The Council of State has said a little about it in the reply letter to the Committee, but at the same time it is important for the Central Party that the precautionary principle underpins all the activity we have on the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1493	On 20 April 2010, the ‘Deepwater Horizon’ oil rig exploded and sank in the Gulf of Mexico. The rig was operated by BP and was at the time of the accident, in full swing drilling an oil well at 1544 meters deep. The rigging explosion took 11 lives and became the beginning of an oil disaster world has not seen its way around. After a laborious and very costly clean-up operation, US environmental authorities now estimate that 74 pst. either of the oil has been collected, burned, naturally dissolved in water or evaporated. In retrospect, BP has acknowledged that the company was not prepared for oil leaks on deep water. BP's boss says the following: there's no doubt that we didn't have the tool you needed for such an action. The last news in the case is that the Obama administration announced yesterday evening that they are now going to court with BP and several of the company's subcontractors. The administration accuses companies of breaking US environmental laws in what is likely to be a long-term legal settlement. The oil disaster in Mexico is a strong warning of the risks associated with submersible oil extraction. 70 pst. the surface of the earth is covered by sea and sea, and discharges spread rapidly with the ocean currents over large areas. Even the biggest technology optimists have got something to think about after the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. The disaster is also a powerful source of oil nation Norway, which has been producing oil on the continental shelf for over 30 years. I am pleased that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee warns that experience from this accident, among other things: will be included in the Ministry of Labour’s Annual Report on Health, Environment and Safety at Work, which is planned to be promoted during the spring 2011 session. In parallel with the accident in the Gulf of Mexico and in the shadow of attention, the Gulfak C platform was evacuated on 19 May of this year, following the risk of gas venting due to pressure changes in a well. It took Statoil a week to get control of the pressure situation in the well. The review report of the Petroleum Safety Authority, presented on 19 November, concluded that there was a real risk of gas explosion and explosion on Gullfaks C in May. The oversight pointed out some 40 deviations from the legislation in its report and announced four impositions with relatively short deadlines. This shows that accidents can also occur on a Norwegian base, and that we were very close to a major accident at that time. Petroleum activity on Norwegian base is changing. The simple wells have already been drilled. What remains are harder wells, many of them on deep water. With the exception of the Worm Lange, the deepest fields on the Norwegian base are less than 400 metres. In the years ahead, oil companies are going much deeper in Norwegian waters. Shell has recently drilled at 1,300 metres deep on the Gro field outside the Helgeland coast. Statoil has made findings on the Luva field west of the Sandness Lake, which lies about the same depth. Drilling on deep water makes greater demands both on drilling technology and on standby in case something should go wrong. The development of new technologies is more important than ever. The disaster in Mexico has shown that marine oil protection can never be anything but a harm reduction tool. There is currently no oil protection preparedness to ensure the protection of vulnerable natural areas in the sea or along the coast. Nor is there any equipment that is dimensioned to take away such large quantities as we saw in this oil disaster. The ‘Full City’ wreck outside Langesund last summer was a real waker in that way. The bunker oil leaking out of ‘Full City’, the pig from the coastal strip along the Agder and Telemark counties, and part of the piggy still lies there. This was a minimal discharge compared to what a blast-out on an oil field or a loss of an oil tank could cause, but it did not stop by modern oil protection. In this way, oil conservation could never be good enough to outweigh the risks posed by offshore oil activities. As politicians, we must be aware of this, even when we are going to decide on the possible opening of new areas for oil activities in vulnerable sea areas. I bring this up with the suggestions we have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1510	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1513	First, I would like to thank the debate and everyone who has participated, and thank the Christian People's Party for its support. The background to these proposals from the Left was the leakage and explosion of the drilling rig in Mexico. The result of it has been a lot of people, so I'm not going to repeat it here. It is important for me to question all the indications that the accident is being used cynically. That thought has never striped me at all – just so it is said. Unfortunately, there is a majority of the parties that have not taken over the fact that there have been several serious incidents on Norwegian pedestal in recent years. Following the accidents and the near-accident on Gullfak’s C – which was also the subject of the previous representative – Statfjord A, Snorre A and Mongstad pointed out the Petroleum oversight to a lack of or lack of risk understanding and robustness. Lack of learning and follow-up of control procedures are also highlighted. In the middle of the drama in the Mexico Gulf this spring, there was a near-accident in Norway on Gullfak's C. Petroleum Control characterised the incident as a serious situation with a great accident potential. On Saturday 4 December, the alarm went to Gulfaks B during a routine maintenance operation. A throat valve was to be replaced, and it turned out that two valves intended to function as safety valves were deactivated. Thus it leaked gas from the well at a high rate, and the leakage lasted for an hour. This resulted in a situation on the device which, according to the Petroleum Authority’s own definition, is characterised as serious. The gas leak on Gullfaks B occurred the day after Statoil informed that the company has decided to resume drilling and well operations in the Gullfaks field. All drilling and welling activities on Gullfaks A, B and C were stopped on 10 November after Statoil was called in to a meeting with the Petroleum Authority. They had recently handed over their own internal investigation report after the near-accident on Gullfak's C in May. The Petroleum Control provided the results of its investigation of the same incident on 19 November, and it strongly criticised Statoil's handling. The Petroleum Control Committee expressed its views, inter alia, on: concerns about the safety focus of Statoil and pointed out several breaches of the rules. Gold pelvis is a field in which you should have good knowledge, given that it is drilled at the top of 160 wells and well over 50 side steps to existing wellcourses. Statoil demonstrated in its review report following the well-monitoring incident on 19 May 2010 in well C-06 that the risk of a sea bottom blast was low. This is justified by the fact that Hordaland sand in the underground can absorb large amounts of gas, oil and drilling sludge. But the point of leakage in well C-06 lay above these sand layers, and the rocks to which it leaked have much easier to crack all the way up to the seabed. The left has not been reassured by the response of the Ministry of Oil and Energy in this matter or by the position of the majority. There is no temporary stop in the allocation of new drilling and liquefaction permits, and Norwegian oil preparedness has shown that it will not be able to handle a large oil spill, whether it is from a well leak, or whether it is from a ground-based ship. To point out that there will be investigations into the spring without doing anything today is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1534	It's very important that we learn from the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. Therefore, since May, the Petroleum Authority has had a close follow-up of US investigations to assess what we can learn — including in Norway. It is also central that we learn from other countries and share our own experiences. Petroleum monitoring is part of established security forums both between the North Sea countries and globally. NSOAF and IRF are the security forums that have had a significant impact on the transfer of knowledge between countries. Authorities that both understand safety challenges and know the national specificity of each country are involved. This type of knowledge transfer has proved very valuable, and this cooperation will continue in the future. On 13 October this year, the European Commission also presented the Communication ‘Facing the challenge of the safety of offshore oil and gas activities’. In the Communication, the Commission announces that by the summer of 2011, it will present proposals for new rules at EU level, including: HMS in marine petroleum activities, risk management and independent verifications. In my dialogue with the EU, I have made it clear that the legislation on petroleum activities on Norwegian soil is an important and national responsibility. It should also be in the future. Our national responsibility for regulating each sector also needs to be seen in the light of the fact that, for example, new EU rules may not fit into Norwegian continental shelf conditions. We have a high level of safety on a Norwegian base. It is established over a long period of time by competent authorities which know Norwegian facts and know the lessons to be learnt from the legislation. I would also like to highlight the so-called tripartite cooperation in the petroleum industry, where authorities, rightholders and employee organisations have worked together for many years to continuously improve the safety level of the petroleum industry. Work in NSOAF and IRF is becoming very important in the future. It is worth noting that the EU Commission is advancing the North Sea and this cooperation as an example of follow-up. In the future, I will follow closely the developments in the new EU rules. I have had good dialogue with the Energy Commissioner on this, and we have also had good contact with the United Kingdom and other central EU countries in the matter. As regards the proposal for a temporary stop in the granting of new extraction permits in general, I have not found reason to introduce such a temporary suspension in Norway, but I have stated that the 21st concession round will be conducted precisely in the light of what we experience in the Gulf of Mexico. I have also previously stated that before granting new extraction permits in round 21 I want to make sure that I have good and sufficient knowledge of what has happened in the Gulf of Mexico, and that good knowledge is something you must have before I consider drilling on the deep water surface in round 21st. It is important that we now include: through quality assurance, follow up the work already undertaken internationally. But it is also important that we wait for the final reports that determine the causes of the accident. Only then will we have a basis for assessing the relevance and need for action in Norway, for example in the Safety Code. I would also like to refer to my letter of 15 November to the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1561	Several have mentioned in the debate the development of new technologies as a prerequisite for progress in terms of safety and environmental considerations. The development of new technologies is, of course, something that happens in the context of new challenges, opening up new areas. That's why we're saying from the right that it's important. I assume that the Council of State has followed closely the work that the authorities have done in dialogue with the United States. My question to the Council of State is whether he sees that there are some measures that can be implemented on a Norwegian base already now. Alternative: When can we expect these measures to be promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1568	Yes, I have followed this work closely. I was, among other things, in parts of July of the Gulf of Mexico. I've visited the U.S. authorities to get into this, and I just have to say that it was a strong experience to fly a helicopter over the area where the accident had happened. It was just in those days when you started to get control of the blastout. I also attended a Norwegian boat that was working there. With regard to concrete measures further, I believe that what we saw on the Macondo width showed that the technical procedures around these BOPs are not good enough. There should have been a standard technology available that could be connected to the BOP at the bottom of the ocean, so that you could do this quickly and not have to wait so many weeks to construct this technical solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1575	It has become clear through the opinions of the Petroleum Authority, the professional organisations and environmental protection organisations that we are still not as good at health, the environment and safety as we like to believe. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1580	I think we are good at health, the environment and safety in the petroleum industry in Norway, but we need to get better. This is not a static state – it's not something we can settle down with, or think that what we did yesterday is good enough tomorrow. I have ambitions that we will improve further, but that the business in Norway is at the top of the world in this area, I don't think there is any doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1585	Norwegian actors were important participants both in the operation to stop the blastout and in cleaning up afterwards. In the media, the Minister for the Environment expressed doubts as to whether Norway would be able to mobilise an equivalent level of auxiliary equipment in the event of a Norwegian accident. What does the Minister for Oil and Energy think?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1590	I think that a Norwegian device, a Norwegian handling of such an accident, would have done it in some other way than what was done in the United States. In the meetings I had when I was over there, I got the impression that it was taken well when it came to the teams that had been deployed, in contrast to what the individual had the opportunity to contribute. But we're going to get more information about this as the assessments of the accident are made. I have no reason to say that the safety, level and extent of preparedness in Norway are not adapted to the activity we have on Norwegian base today. But at the same time, these are responsibilities that are outside my department, so I'm not going to go any further into those assessments. It'll be taken by the responsible state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1597	Several have not asked for the word in reply – the representative Astrup raises a hand and asks for a line. The President recalls that the electronic system can also be used, which works well at this point. The representative of Astrup is given the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1604	I'm conservative – that's why I'm using the old system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1609	There must be limits to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1612	In today's edition of the VG, we can read that former Secretary of State of the OED, Liv Monica Stubholt, asked American oil companies to engage in the Norwegian Lofoten debate to strangle the environmental argument against oil drilling. In this connection, I could imagine asking the Council of State if it is such that the Central Party is really to open outside the Lofoten.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1618	The lookout that I saw in the VG today was probably not any more familiar to me than it was to the representative of Astrup. So I have nothing more to contribute around it. With regard to the views of the Centre Party on possible oil drilling and activity in the Lofoten and the Vesterål, there is also nothing new about it, based on the article referred to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1625	Then the president hasn't registered any more relics. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1982]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1643	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1652	There has been an important and controversial case in front of the proposal to the Left that brought it up to date. The theme, however, is not new. The Internet policy has been debated several times in Stortinget: once as a result of the government making a network proposal, and several times as a result of the opposition asking for a larger case to be made. The Committee agrees that it is important to try to limit the negative environmental impact of the construction of power lines. We propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. When a person does not choose to adopt the representative proposal itself, it is partly because the Left has already had its say, and the adoption of it will be to open doors, and a little because one here asks for postponement to a much greater extent than the Committee wants. But the left has been impressed by what I think is important, namely that the most controversial stretch has been exposed. So the left can actually cash in a win here. The overall opposition has suggested many times, namely that one should have an overall online debate on the main roads, the Left has had an impact for almost on its own, one might say, with the help of a little bit of a Hardanger action in addition. The Left will take credit for that. Therefore, it is also important to stress – even though the representative Rudihagen is not in the Chamber in this matter – that I was very happy when I saw the letter from the oil and energy minister dated November 5, where he opened with saying: ‘I intend to present a case to the Stortinget on the overall leadership of the future development and upgrading of the country’s transmission system in force later in this large-scale period.’;» That's what we in the opposition have asked for several times, and got a rejection, but now everyone can rejoice, by three times three hurrahs, so that this comes anyway. I still think it is a little sad that we had to have a round in Hardanger before we got this from the government. It's a reminder that sometimes it's actually better to put the strategy first and then come up with the tools than to start the tools and then come up with the strategy afterwards. So one has been pretty much passed through for point one. One has been met at point two, at the most controversial level, and at point three, an opposition's support is given in strengthening the commitment to research and development work related to the use of earth and sea cables. I would like the government to meet us there too, but perhaps the Minister of Energy can delight us on that point even when he gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1668	After a long period of collective neglect combined with new challenges, such as: connected to renewable power generation, we are now entering a period of sharp escalation of investments in the network. Statnet alone has investment plans of the order of 20 to 45 billion. kr in the years up to 2020. In addition, investments in regional networks and in the distribution network, where the need for upgrading is also high. Then, of course, we all agree that this is an extension that must be as gentle as possible. We need to avoid unnecessary loads, and we need to avoid unnecessary interference in nature. It is quite understandable that large power lines through beautiful natural areas create strong reactions. There are very few who want to have a trafostation in their garden, and there are few who believe that the mountain cottage is becoming more beautiful by high-spent masters, although I know someone who also thinks it is. I am also concerned that there is a lot of technology development on the cable front. Statnett is, among other things, is heavily involved in research and development in this field. My claim is that the focus and knowledge of this area is quite different from a few years ago. It is incredibly important that Statnet has a conscious relationship to test new cable technology and to help it to be used on a larger scale. By putting technology into service, it will also be better. We have to avoid getting to the point where we don't use the technology because it's too bad and for animals, and it doesn't get cheaper and better because we don't use it. At the same time, I think it is right to say something about the fact that cable is not always a simple solution either, despite the fact that technology is constantly evolving. Cable, and especially cable on land, when you dig it down into the ground, involves great natural interventions. It requires broad lines, and it requires the ability of vehicles to enter. In the event of a failure it must be dug, and the downtime may be very long. Another very important aspect, which is at least important for the Workers' Party, is our ambitions for the development of renewable energy. Small-scale production and production are very widespread. It is clear that it requires networks that not only carry large quantities of power from a to b, but also make it possible to connect along many points along the way. There's an opportunity that disappears largely with cable. Then there is much that can be done through the gentle choice of trajectory and various camouflage measures. But we're meeting dilemmas here, too. The case-handling time in the NVE has been a repetition in this room. The opposition and position have shared the concern that the concessions will be dealt with for so many years that we can't build up the network at the rate that we need. This is why the Committee chose to clarify, at the end of the previous period, that they should not lead to an increase in the duration of the NVE proceedings. I am pleased that a joint committee is concerned that already granted concessions and ongoing development processes are not delayed by further demands for investigations and new requirements for implementation. Networks are societally critical infrastructure. It's going to be done as gently as we can, and here we're stuck with a central network operator who has a lot of consciousness and who spends a lot of money on this. From the majority of the Labour Party and from the Labour Party, we are pleased that the government will come back to Stortinget with a case of overall leadership for the future development and upgrade of the transmission system during the period. It is good that Stortinget continues to focus on the network, and it is absolutely necessary that there be signals both to Statnett and NVE that the pressure on the technology development of the cable must be kept up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1691	We have behind us one summer with a strong and intense debate on power lines. In Hardanger, people have long been in Harnish over the plans to build a new 420 kV power line between Sima and Samnanger, and it peaked when complaints of concession were rejected in July. The summer drama in Hardanger led to one of the greatest retreats in Norwegian politics. Complaining about the concession for Sima-Samninger was seen waiting for a full review of the case. Sima – Samnanger is unique in many ways. The main reason why the government had to turn around in this matter was that there was great local resistance to this line. All the municipalities in the region were against air voltage. The same was true of Hordaland and the political parties in the state. In addition, it was interesting to see how the mountain sares support the resistance to the air voltage in Hardanger. It is positive that the Minister of Oil and Energy wants a full review of the case of Sima–Samnanger, and that the government has set up four specialist councils to have a complete and independent review of the case before the final decision is taken. Right has demanded full distributions for a long time, so this was in line with Right's wishes. The right hand side does not have the required resolution configuration, but is very critical to the currently active process. We also see that Statnett has taken self-criticism on the process, and that is good. Many citizens also react to the large differences in the state's approach to large-scale grid deployments with major natural interventions, and to the treatment of landowners and others when making large-scale or smaller-scale expansions in their areas. The power grid is a very important infrastructure, and particular attention must be paid to this in the development of the grid. Nevertheless, a question mark can be set by how to compare this expansion with other expansions in protected areas. In the Gulf of Sogn and the Fjords, the landowners got a good example of it. In 2004, they applied for construction of a 650 - foot - long [450 m] and 4 - foot [4 m] road in Vørsdalen. They were refused the application, including: with a foundation of pristine nature and biological deficiency in the area. Six years later, Statnett has been given green light to build an 11 km long and 40 m wide trajectory for the new 420 kV line between Ørskog and Fardal through the same area – without the landowners seeing that the natural values of the area have changed. This is also a great paradox in many other places. In the past, the right has made suggestions to set up an expert selection to facilitate a stronger commitment to the development of new cable technologies. The right also had a hearing in Stortinget about this in September. In the case paper, the Christian People's Party has several comments on the need for new cable technology in which the Right has been merged. That is why we also support this point in the matter. There have been questions about the trust of Statnett, NVE and OED, and not least about the close ties that often exist between these etats in several issues of power development. The Civil Ombudsman has dealt with the case of Sima-Samnanger, and in a letter to the OED he shows that the wording of the delegation regulation has not been updated and changed in line with the practices of the regulatory and delegation authorities, which will be in force in the future. The letter from the civilian ombudsman states: ‘Such long-standing inconsistencies between the wording of the delegation decisions in question and the competences which appear to have been delegated by the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the NVE may help undermine confidence in the administration in general and in the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy in particular.’; It is very important to address these challenges and to clarify the lines of responsibility between them. Another challenge that has also been updated recently is that only one alternative to the line trajectory is provided when you apply for a concession. It has to be assessed whether it would not be appropriate to have more options to choose from, so that one can weigh for and against when to deal with such important issues. Right is also pleased that the Minister, in reply to the Committee, says: ‘I intend to present a case to the Stortinget on the overall leadership of the future development and upgrading of the country’s transmission system in force later in this large-scale period.’;» For several years, the right has sought a complete review of the Internet policy. Now we have a good opportunity to discuss future web policy and future solutions. The right is looking forward to taking an active part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1733	To a large extent, this matter has had an outcome towards the Left's wish as they promoted the proposal, and therefore I do not intend to make a very long post. Just a few words: there is no doubt that the reactions in the Sima-Samnanger case were enormous, and helped to change Norwegian policy. As a left-wing, former activist with faith in democracy from below, I think it is positive that a strong popular commitment to a state and a region gives an opinion on political changes. That's very good. The SV’s position on the question of Sima–Samnanger has never been a secret, and it is not difficult to understand that we are satisfied with the samples that have been appointed and will work until February. Then I want to join in the assessments that the representative Marthinsen of the Workers' Party is doing around what is a natural intervention and not. Because I would also warn against a debate in which air tension is produced as a unilaterally negative natural intervention, while wiring is unproblematic. This is precisely one of the reasons why we need these debates, and we need the assessments of the Ørskog-Fardal and Sima-Zomnanger samples, because cabling also has significant environmental consequences. Shuffling requires major trafostations, major intervention also on the seabed. The same is true of landslides, which are, in practice, digging a road. It is not unproblematic either. What I might wish for in the debate that is coming, and which I would also like to see in the work that the Council of State has announced – a matter for the Grand Council on the Internet Policy of the Future – is that we have an overall approach more than we managed in the debate on Sima-Samnanger and Ørskog-Fardal. There have been many shortcuts in the debate until now, I think. I think it's a little special, for example. to hear the Right Leader, Erna Solberg, say: Let's wire in Hardanger, we can afford that – a party that is usually very careful about using taxpayers' money. I also think it is particularly important to see opposition parties double communicate strongly in their view of cable in Ørskog-Fardal. That's something we'll get back to in the next case. Hopefully that's not how it is when we take the broader debate that the Council of State has announced. Many of the issues left-wing promises in the matter they have now promoted, it would be quite natural to deal with that matter, and there I think SV and Left also have a lot in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1744	Let me just start by stressing what the previous speaker was about when it relates to the balance between different considerations. Other interventions that are used about one another are arguments relating to aesthetics and argumentation relating to the environment, as if it were the same. I don't agree with that. I mean that a large part of these debates are not mainly about environmental issues, but about aesthetics. We have spent a lot of time discussing renewable energy in this room. Most of the time we have had a positive sign of it – everyone gets more renewable energy. Whether we talk about the climate challenge, security of supply, energy needs or green jobs, renewable energy is important. If this energy is to have a positive climate effect, used in households or industry – creating green jobs – it must reach the production site and reach the place of use. This happens via force lines. Let me be perfectly timely. After all, the center part is not for lines in the airpan of principle. On the contrary, we believe that it is important to discuss trasear to the powerlines that take care of people and nature. Some places, and especially at a lower voltage level, can mean the use of cable. It is also the guidelines that are being followed by the network policy today. The result of the government's online policy is, of course, that we are getting fewer and fewer air lines – much less at a lower voltage level, much less in the future than we have today. Let me also add that short-distance power is a good thing. There must still be a target to use the power close to the production site to precisely avoid unnecessary line construction and loss of current during transport through the lines. At the same time, we need the lines. We need them because without a buyer of power, we don't get any new energy either – and no one dares to invest if one doesn't have a provision for goods. We need them because parts of our country don't have the adequate power supply or security of supply. Our history as a hydropower nation has made us have solid expertise in power transmission. There is nothing we can decide in this room. This is something that the network operators and other companies have contributed to with the research and development environment. It's not like we're far behind for other parts of the world in this area -- on the contrary. There's a lot of excitement going on in every batch, at least in my own right, to keep it going. It is not a big challenge to point out that there are conflicts in powerline construction. That's what we've learned in the past, and that's what we've learned in the past. We have to take it seriously. It is possible to make good processes where local people, landowners and municipalities are taken along to find good trassars who take care of people and nature. But then today, things have also taught us that when it comes to the problem, there is actually a touching deal in this room that the transmission lines are important, and that the goal of as much equal prices and equal security of supply in the whole country depends on that we have good transmission lines. Then we are also some that nature and construction should be important consideration as a take on the performance, as it is today. When it comes to overarching the network policy, I refer to what the Council of State and the Government have indicated on a case in progress in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1765	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is aiming to come back with a case of overall leadership for the future development and upgrade of the transmission system, and that it is aimed at returning such a case within the next three years. This Christian People's Party sees it, it is absolutely necessary in relation to the challenges we face. We can only look at the summer debate on Hardanger. However, once the government has announced that the Stortinget will be presented with a case on green certificates in the spring of 2011, and also the day we are presented with the renewable directive, it will also mean that more energy will be added to the network. We have to have multiple transfer lines. Then it is essential that we have had such a general discussion. So my challenge to the government is that this overall message comes at as early as possible so that we can go up the principles before we go down the individual issues. But with more energy on the web compared to the green certificate, and the renewable directive will give us, we also see that there is a shift of focus in the demands of the population. You know that there's technology to put more into cable, whether it's at sea or in soil. Then I fully agree with the challenges that are in the field of earth-capping and sea-capping. This is not a fix it – no easy fix it either – it is demanding. But it is precisely on the background that the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, is asking the government to invest in research and development work in this area in order to get further into this very area. Me and the Christian People's Party also agree that we should not have cable everywhere. It is not cable that is the answer if you have small power to enter the network. Then there's a completely different discussion. So there are some constraints here. I cannot, with my best will, understand that someone can be opposed to us getting more development work and more research in an important area of our web policy. But that's what the government parties have to answer for. With this I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1780	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1783	First of all, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this debate and for the fact that a matter will be put forward at a later stage. Norway is facing a period of extensive expansion and upgrading of the electricity grid in order to increase the production of renewable energy and secure the supply of electricity throughout the country. This development and upgrading is left-wing, but this must be done as carefully as possible in the interests of the environment, in particular biodiversity and valuable natural landscapes. With reference to the applicable legislation, air voltage is almost exclusively used for the transmission of high voltage lines. Proposalers want legislation to be amended so that environmental considerations are given greater weight than in the past. Fresh and pristine natural landscapes play a major role in outdoor life, biodiversity and travel. In some cases, consideration should be given to the conservation of these natural landscapes in order to select ground and sea cables rather than air lines if they can reduce the burden on the environment. The previous Minister for Oil and Energy announced that new guidelines would be in place to improve the transmission of cables in sea and soil in key natural areas where air voltage would be devastating. However, no such guidance was provided. Instead, the department in Ot.prp. 62 for 2008-2009, a strategy with stricter requirements for remedial measures was presented. Such measures may often reduce the burden on the environment, but in some cases the disadvantages of using airline are so great that they cannot be compensated for. In the complaint handling of the Sima-Samnanger line, the Ministry indicated that there was no basis for using a sea cable on this route, as there would be a less favourable solution in terms of security of supply in relation to an air line. The Ministry also indicated that the distance between Sima and Samnanger is long and that it is therefore difficult to fall within the scope of the strategy that cables may be relevant to limited distances. When even the hardangernature is not important enough to focus environmental considerations on other considerations, this shows that the current legislation is too weak. The regulatory framework does not provide sufficient scope for the use of earth and sea cables instead of air voltage in areas with important natural values. It is therefore appropriate to amend the regulatory framework in such a way that the development of electricity lines in regional and central networks has to take more environmental considerations than they do today. Finally, I would like to say that we support the proposal in the vote, and then I will address the proposal from the Left, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1800	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1804	It is not right, as the representative Tenden just referred to, that no case has been brought by the government relating to wiring. It was made in that odelstningsproposition, where it was just stated that cables should be used. Lower voltage levels shall be used to a greater extent and shall also be done. Then I have also said that I intend to present a case to the Stortinget on the overall leadership of the future development and upgrade of the transmission system for power here to countries later in the large-scale period. It's going to be building on what Stortinget had to debate last year, well, it was, and it's based on, among other things. on the experience gained during the summer. There will be a debate based on relatively different approaches to the question of what to do in order to reconcile the need to generate renewable energy and to ensure the preparedness and implementation of the specific projects. I will not prejudge the content of this now, but I will nevertheless comment on the proposals to the representatives based on how I evaluate them today. Proposals require changes to the legal regulations that allow for increased use of ground and sea cables in the construction of power lines. What's the best solution for the environment and society in each case depends on a lot of things. If leads for cable use were to be included in a regulation, very many other considerations had to be mentioned. Therefore, the government has previously, with the agreement of the Stortinget, found that it is not appropriate. There is a background for emphasising different considerations and leads to the use of remedial measures instead of the Storting in other documents and, lastly, through that odelstningsproposition, No. 62 for 2008-2009. The power line strategy is based on a thorough review of how power lines are planned and concessional treatment. The strategy concluded that cabling is more often a societal rational response at lower than at higher voltage levels. For this reason, it is established that cable should be a general rule in the distribution system while its use should be progressively more restrictive at increasing voltage levels. Equally, this strategy states that cable use should always be assessed at all voltage levels. A little later today, at the discussion of representative proposal 8:4 S, I will come back to how this is done in the complaint handling of the power line between Ørskog and Fardal. Representatives want the government of Statnett SF to ensure that the company postpones the start-up of the works in already adopted structures. Sick if Statnet owns most of the central network in Norway, it is only one of several network companies that build and operate large power lines. The premise and predictability of the concession treatment should not be affected by ownership. Concession conditions for the construction of power lines should therefore be granted through the concession treatment. However, I have made an exception to this approach with regard to the start of the plant for the central network reinforcement from Sima to Samnanger in the light of the work of the external samples that have been reduced. Representatives also demand a strengthening of R & D investment linked to the use of earth and sea cables. Both case-by-case and R & D projects contribute more actively to promoting solutions for future power transmission based on future solutions. The Norwegian Research Council supports R & D on earth and sea cable technologies, mainly through the RENERGI programme. The programme has supported projects relevant to the use of a total of 110 million cables. kr for the period 2004–2013. Furthermore, Statnett participates in cable development projects in cooperation with both R & D environments and cable suppliers and is active in international forums. I have noticed that Statnet has been selected as a consultant for external cable projects abroad in competition with others. The Worm Lange is also an example of Statnett and Norwegian environments asserting themselves in cable technology. Here, the world's first 420 kV plastic insulated PEX cable was added, and Statnett has also applied for the use of PEX cable for three out of six cables between Evje and Tegen in Oslofjorden, among others. to contribute precisely to the development and experience of this technology. So a lot is already happening in research and development on cable technology. The government has greatly increased R & D appropriations in renewable energy and environmental technologies in recent years. The development of power transmission technologies can provide new opportunities for more gentle transmission of power lines. At the same time, key central network reinforcements must be based on adequately qualified technologies and where the risk of errors is acceptable. Developments in this area need to be made in stages and with a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1828	The government's chief executive has previously invited all citizens to participate in consultation on important societal issues, but it was in the New Year's. In the case of the masts in Hardanger, there has been little consultation. Nevertheless, the government has stopped a little bit. Is it so that there must be loud roars, powerful roars, much roaring for this government to listen to those who have opinions on important societal issues? Is there a brewing that has to, or is it such that it is suddenly newly acquired knowledge that you actually lacked knowledge, the newly acquired recognition that you actually lacked as much knowledge as you have for a long time expressed to those who had objections, counter-representations and input into that trajectory and the process and solution that the government had chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1833	As regards advice, recordings and assessments related to the Sima Samnanger line, it is worth noting that no consultation opinions were received from the relevant municipalities in the consultation process. It was set up for a very ordinary process, where local bodies were to make their input, in the same way that we do on the Ørskog-Fardal line, which is a little further north, and it naturally contributed to the process being different from what is normal around that kind of project. I hope for the future in consultation processes that the invitation from the authorities to participate in making recordings, improving the projects and providing local experience is used, and that we do not experience the situation that one will later sit down and discuss the questions that a natural person is discussing in advance of decisions – for example. force lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1838	I want to go back to the letter from the civilian ombudsman from October this year. There has been a lot of discussion about this with confidence among the various actors who have dealt with the cases of Sima-Samnanger, and in the letter from the civil ombudsman, questions were asked in relation to liability, delegation, etc. in this matter. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do to correct what the Civil Ombudsman points to in his letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1843	Now, that letter has also been answered, and in that reply we point out some important issues that we believe should also be part of the assessments made by the civil ombudsman. So it's not the fasit that's mentioned in the letter sent from the civilian ombudsman. These include: Delegation-related relationships — a delegation that has taken place in Norway for relatively many years. But as far as that's concerned, I think – regardless of that letter – that it's interesting and wise to look at the relationship between decisions taken in underlying agencies and decisions that might be taken more directly in the department. There's a process going on, a little independent of the letter from the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1848	In the debate on power lines in Hardanger, several have asked whether solutions other than the deployment of networks could ensure security of supply in the Bergens region. I even believe that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has asked the same question to Statnett now in this process. Statnett’s answer – at least at the hearing to the Right – was that it was not their responsibility to look at what Enova, Gassnova and NVE should do; they were only responsible for networks. But for the Storting there can't be an adequate answer. So then the question is: has the State Council ensured that Statnett, NVE, Gassnova, Enova and other relevant actors have settled down and looked at what other alternative measures exist on the strength, production and consumption side that could achieve the same objective of good security of supply for the Bergens region?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1855	There is no other measure that can fully replace having a third entry into the Bergen area in place. It ensures both the need for preparedness, the availability of a safer supply, and also the need for nutrient development related to the production of summer-time power in the region. A solution based to a greater extent on internal power generation in the region would not provide an equivalent opportunity for industrial development related to the export of energy summer time. So when one sees the sum of needs that are here, it's providing a better infrastructure around electricity in the region the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1860	On the right-hand side, we've been busy getting out the whole spectrum of alternative solutions. That is why we also sent a letter to the Council of State earlier, this summer, asking if one could consider not only sea cable as an alternative, but also other alternatives in relation to air voltage. Now a few months have passed, and we have not yet received an answer to this letter. Now, the NVE is spending five years dealing with small-scale applications – I don't know if the handling capacity of the Oil and Energy Ministry and the Council of State are just as explosive. We expected to get an answer. So maybe the Council of State can give an answer now, or at least give an answer as to when we can expect to get an answer to our enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1865	In the case of other solutions, the answer to that is two-part. One part of it is based on other network solutions, and they have been evaluated along the way, by finding other routes and thus ensuring the flow into the region. So it's well investigated and discussed in the various documents. When it comes to securing the energy supply other than grid gain, I just commented on it in response to the representative Solvik-Olsen. It is clear that it is technically possible to increase production, for example: based on gas power in the Bergen area. It is possible to adopt a political decision, thus increasing the degree of maritime supply in the region. As I said in my previous answer, the next challenge will arise related to the power exchange of summer time, when production in the area is much higher than it is today, and consumption is lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1870	First, if I misinformed my post, I'm sorry, of course, and I'm going to go back and check the source. So to the question: although the Council of State so far affected the Left's proposal in its post, I still want to challenge him a little. It is changing the Energy Act, which opens up more land and sea cabling in valuable natural landscapes. It's distributed in the hall here today. What assessments does the Council of State make?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1878	I believe that these considerations should be taken into account. We are going to do what is possible to avoid unnecessary networking and the establishment of other infrastructure, both in particularly valuable areas and also in general, I believe. Fortunately, we have pretty good nature in Norway, and I think we should do what we can to leave it as untouched as possible. Having said that, I am probably missing some real orientation in this debate. I think the debate in the last few months has been influenced by the fact that there are many who want renewable energy, but there are many who do not want to take the consequences of it. One does not overlook that if one is to increase the production of renewable energy in Norway, it will mean masters. It will mean technical intervention, and that will mean that some things are visible. I wish that part of the debate were more advanced, and not a debate where I get the impression that it is possible to have two points of view at the same time on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1885	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1890	Let me first say that an independent review is better than nothing, and can open up for better solutions in terms of trajectory choices. Let me also say that a separate case to Stortinget about the overall leadership for the future development and upgrade of the country's transmission system is also better than nothing. Both parts are late, but it is still good that they come. It gives hope that just national natural taxes that we have in Hardanger and elsewhere in the country can be taken better care of than the government has so far committed. This general proposal by the Left on changes in energy law and the postponement of work start-ups stemmed primarily from the enormous debate we have had and continue to have on what has been referred to as the master monsters of Hardanger. The matter is about a lot, but it does not allow three minutes to go in. It is at least about interference with national natural taxes, it is about how the state, on the one hand, manages large-scale deployments of the grid, resulting in significant natural interference, and how landowners locally and regionally experience being treated when they are going to intervene and change their own property. The question of the masts in Hardanger is also about the distance from Oslo to the West. It's about a little wise process, and it might be, as the council replied to me in the reply, that there has been little participation from affected municipalities here. The important thing to take over is the reaction that, after all, has come to an end, and that is what we hope from the West – and we from Hordaland in particular – will be governing future process work. Before the hospital fight in Molde exploded, I would say that the matter of the monster masts in Hardanger is one of the least wise processes of the Stoltenberg government. But now I'm not as sure about it. Let me also point out that there are, in fact, doubts about the need, the lack of neutral estimates. It is unclear what will be the cost of different carry-overs, to point out some of the regional objections. It's a little special that you go from being almost overconfident and repeat over a long period of time that everything has been worked out and everything has been resolved, to end up setting up four boards to review what you've previously said is overconfident. At the same time, plants are started. It provokes many, and unfortunately it is often taken as an ominous signal that the government may not have intended to take the trade unions seriously. We sincerely hope not, but it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1906	I take the floor in this case, so that not the statement by the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen of the Socialist Left Party is undisputed as to what the Right Leader should have said about cabling in Hardanger. I would like to make it clear that the Right's position, as was also stated when the decision was taken, is that infrastructure and networks are important in order to have a high level of security of supply, to ensure citizens and industry energy supplies. We have not taken a decision as to whether the option chosen is correct. This means that we have not said that the air voltage is wrong as an alternative. But what we have said is that we are critical of the process that has taken place and the professional basis on which this process has been based. I think it is positive to do so, among other things. Statnet has taken self-criticism on the process, and that one wants to learn from the mistakes that have been made in view of future developments. It is good that these four samples are established, so that the professional basis for assessing alternatives is improved. We also asked, as I mentioned in a line to the Council of State a little while ago, that these samples should be able to look at more alternatives than just sea cable versus air voltage. But as I said, we have not received any feedback on that. I think it's important that we look at the future development of the network as an opportunity for economic development for our environments of competence. Norway has, inter alia: a lot of wiring at sea, both in terms of current and offshore installations. That means we have food clusters and businesses in this country that are far advanced in this area. And when we know that we here in Norway, but also in the EU and other countries, are facing massive expansions in new generations of power transmissions, it is important that we also, on our part, are promoting technology development that enables us to better take care of both security of supply and the consideration of nature and aesthetic values.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1917	I want to follow up the linecode exchange when it came to working around alternative solutions for the web. I, and the Progress Party, are looking to find the overall best solution – costs, environment, energy and security of supply set up against each other. And if there's a force line that's needed, then it's a force line the Progress Party wants. But I am responding to the attitudes that have begun to emerge around the discussion of alternative solutions. In the debate, therefore, both the authorities and the government have said that the new network line must come because it is about the security of power supply in the region. If one of the two lines falls out today, Statnet cannot guarantee security of supply. It's a serious situation, for all intents and purposes. We have to do something with that. But it's the security of supply argument that's being promoted all the time. However, this can also obviously be solved by local action. The council itself mentioned gas power plants, which I am pleased to see positively that he was considering at all, because it may be a difficult matter for some of the others in the government. But also a mixture of new hydropower, small power, wind power, energy saving, less electrification of the base and more bioenergy would delight the Minister of Energy – a package that could also do the same good. So it could have happened that the package had become unlikely to be expensive in relation to the utility that made it automatically said that it was not desirable. Or it could be that the government admitted and said that no, more gas power plants than we have, we really don't want, even though it's going to be an impression of the opposite of the prime minister. But then we had at least a political choice. We don't have that now, because no one has been put forward such a package. Statnett says it's not their responsibility and Enova is just looking at the stimulation of renewable energy and energy saving. Will the government do that job? It is therefore a question of legitimacy in relation to the elections that are being made. I'm really pretty sure some people in Hardanger feel so overrun in this process that you could put down 100 samples, and you wouldn't be proud of it, because now comes this decision at the time the Workers' Party's strategists, according to the VG, wanted it to come last year. It came in February, when the water reservoirs were low, the power prices were high and when you kind of had the perfect setup to get it just as you wanted from the government. It was enough to be present at the Right Hearing about this and look at how the Hardanger action argued. There's not enough trust left in that process to listen to professional advice, almost no matter who comes with it. And then showing alternatives besides having a web line, so that you can actually also get a quantified view of it, would be very, very useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1928	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1983]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1943	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1952	In the present proposal for a representative, it is proposed that Statnett reassemble various alternative trasé options and technological solutions on the most vulnerable routes on the Ørskog-Fardal line, in order to ask an independent selection to assess the alternative trasévala and technological solutions to the most vulnerable sections of that route. The reason is that in June 2009, Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate decided to grant Statnett a concession for the construction and operation of a 420 kV power line between Ørskog and Sogndal. The decision meant that the cable was to be built as an air line on the entire route. The decision was appealed on many occasions, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy received a complaint from the NVE in October 2009. In the same month, there was a public view of the department and a meeting along the entire route. For several sections, Statnett has assessed, distributed and requested different trajectory options. During the treatment of concession cases, NVE has asked Statnett for more additional information and requests in the light of significant protests along the 280 km long cable route. Let me just underline the cross-political unity it is that this feeder line is the immeasurably important thing to realize. Yes, the schedules are long overdue if you want to add a new question to the timing of the completion of this line, for it was originally planned to be completed in 2011. The lack of capacity on the power supply to Mid Norway has given the area record high power prices and one has measured investing in two so-called mobile gas power plants at a price between 2 and 3 billion. kr. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on a new presentation of the need for this line, it's documented by countless debates in this room. The most controversial sections that remain after the complaint are Jölster, Naustdal and Flora municipalities and Førdedalen in the municipality of Bremen. It is distributed and assessed the trasear after input from the local authorities. In Møre and Romesdal, the route Ørsta–Örskog is the most controversial, and there has been a now asked Statnett to apply and dispose of the sea and earth cable option Large Standal to Ørskog. In addition, the reorganisation option has been re-examined, with the Progress Party pointing out that this solution will bring environmental considerations, security of supply and the economy closer together than in the past. As is now the case with concessional treatment and further disposal of the various options, it is currently unclear what solution a good solution is to apply. The representative proposal has therefore been supported in many areas, even when it was intended for an independent selection, as proposed. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's plural recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e1969	The new 420 kV power line between Ørskog and Fardal has been a major and important issue in the North-West for several years. Linja has encountered strong resistance in many municipalities and many communities. The Sogn and Fjordane lines are very poor. That's why there's also a requirement to put more capacity on the grid in our state. It's very important to increase line capacity towards Middle Norway, and it's urgent. Middle Norway is a large area of power failure, which will have an increasing force loss in the years to come. Last winter, consumers and businesses in Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal experienced very high electricity prices. This is very serious for the region, both for households that are struggling to pay the electricity bill, and for enterprises that have to stop operating due to high prices. Much indicates that this situation will repeat itself this winter. Unfortunately, the government has neglected for several years when it comes to securing the power supply to Central Norway. Nevertheless – there is a cross-political agreement that one must have greater capacity for Middle Norway. Although it is now in the final phase of the Ørskog-Fardal concession management, new alternative trajectories are still being launched. We have noticed that the oil and energy minister asked Statnett as late as November to apply for a sea cable concession on the route between Hjørundfjorden and Ørskog. Right thinks this is positive, and the Right actually has the pressure to do this years ago. On such a background, it may be interesting to discuss who is responsible for progress in this matter. Is it those who don't want this line into their vicinity, or are the red-green politicians who haven't had the will or the ability to get all the cards on the table early in the process? For several years, the right has called for an offensive web policy that could provide a stronger network of lines that will also take greater consideration of the negative impacts of large air voltages on nature and the environment. This is not least the case when it comes to the proximity of busses and important recreational areas for people. On several occasions, the right has called for an action plan to address the power crisis in central Norway. The former central party council Odd Roger Enoksen promised that such a plan would come in 2006, and the Ørskog-Fardal power line would be an important part of such a plan. The former central party council of Åslaug Haga stated in 2007 that new guidelines for network policy were to be established before a decision was taken on the Ørskog-Fardal and Sima-Summanger powerlines. None of these elevations are held. Passive red-green politicians have spent many years working to put in place a web policy that could provide a stronger and more secure network, and that could also create confidence in the processes and decisions to be taken with the development of the network. In these days, we see the conflicts that are raging between neighbours and neighbouring municipalities in Sunnfjord, Nordfjord and Sunnmøre. On December 9th, in the newspaper Firda, we were able to read on the front page that 600 people in Firde are fighting for their neighbourhood. There have long been strong protests against the line going into the centre of Naustdal. Similarly, there is a desire to have an alternative with a sea cable across the North Fjord west of the Eid center. Here, the municipality of Eid is clearly told that now is no longer the time to erase more options, even if this could be a real option. There is strong resistance to the construction of large power lines in many places in the country. It means, in my view, that today's policy in this area is obsolete. What we've seen from the Energy Councils lately, fits well with what Right has demanded for a long time. We get a full review of the powerline sac in Hardanger with four expert selections, we get new assessments of the most critical points on the route between Ørskog and Fardal, and not least we are applying for a sea cable concession on parts of the route between Ørskog and Fardal. That means that the Right has had an impact on important issues that we've been pressing for before. Then red-green politicians get so grown up that they take the full responsibility that it has taken so long to get this in place, and that they also take responsibility for the power crisis we see in Middle Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2001	The president asked whether the representative, Mr Sødemel, had intended to address the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2004	Yes, I take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2009	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2012	Central Norway has an acute need for improved power situation. We've discussed that a lot. And there is a need for a better transmission system in large parts of the country. This gives rise to controversial natural interventions, and among the most controversial issues we find the route Ørskog-Fardal. There have been a lot of protests against the line in the consultation round. I am therefore satisfied with the outcome of this case now, where the Minister of Oil and Energy has asked Statnet to seek new concessions and explore alternative solutions on some routes. That's a wise and good solution. Then one would also think that the Right was satisfied with such a solution in view of the representative Lødemel's high profile in the matter over a long time. The representative Lødemel has fought for election almost alone on the resistance to this line and on demands for sea cable on the entire route Ørskog-Fardal, and has been very clear on it also in his posts in Stortinget, in his questions to the Council of State and in his numerous media plays in the big-time election campaign in Sogn and Fjordane last year. Then the glide flight begins. On 8 June we were able to read on the NRK's pages: 'Lødemel backs off', and that the Right would still not require a sea cable. Then one can reflect on what Lødemel's home country voters might think about it. Then comes a countermessage again. On 31 August, the Right has once again changed. Then Sogn Avis announced: ‘Erna requires cable’, for then Erna Solberg has been with the representative Lødemel on a visit to watch the line. And then again: when we are dealing with this matter in the committee – in view of a demand for cabling, one would believe that the Right at least was in favour of attaching the proposal to the Minutes, with the intentions left in favour of the proposal – who is not in favour of the proposal? That's right. The confusion is complete. What is it really Right's opinion about cabling and various trasé alternatives Ørskog-Fardal? And what is it really the representative of Solute flour means? Did he really mean when he promised to fight for cabling all the way? Has he changed his mind and now believes that the government's solution is the wisest? In that case, the representative should be honest enough to admit that the government has not done a stupid job in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2023	Realisation of the power line between Ørskog and Fardal, or Ørskog and Sogndal where the trafo is now located, is very central in ensuring mid-Norway power access. But not only that: because that's how these power lines can lead both ways, and we know that in the West too, the power supply can be challenged by too little rainfall. Then it is important to stress that to have a new industrial establishment, new consumption, either here or there, there must be secure power supply, stable power supply. Not least, this line is also crucial to trigger the renewable potential existing in this part of the country and which I record that representatives from different batches use to take account of the future renewable production that Norway can obtain. And then along this planned path, it's been a series of recordings from municipalities, from communities, and from individuals. It has its processes. There are recordings that are now being considered more thoroughly by Statnett, both those who were referred to by previous speakers, and also other measures, minor adjustments and remedial measures, because we are all concerned with finding pathways for the powerlines that take account of construction and the environment. Then it is important for us to stress that the positive work must continue, that the dialogue and processes must now be good in the final phase of treatment, and that a continuation such as the government and the Council of State are aiming at: being in dialogue with the municipalities that get this line in. Then I ask myself the following after these two debates. If that's how everyone in this room stresses the importance of the lines, and underlines, at least when it comes to this particular line, that it has to be built quickly, it is in stark contradiction to what was said by some representatives in the election campaign. Not even my good colleague, the representative Lødemel, who built large parts of his election campaign on precisely gathering resistance to the construction of this line along this or the corresponding line, is further opposite the line. In fact, in the setting, he is the one who is most likely to reject the proposal that is on the table, despite the fact that parts of it are already represented by the government. Then he stands here and says, "We've had full penetration for the Right." Shouldn't believe some environmental protection/natural protections, at least in my own home state, which for the first time confuses giving the right voice because of this line resistance, ask a little question about it. Full penetration for the Right – it is directly contrary to what was pronounced from the Right in Sogn and the Fjords during the election campaign and in time before it. One had one option, and there was a wiring on the whole stretch, while it was the other parties that highlighted the trasé changes and remedial measures as an alternative. Well, full throughput for Right is words that have to be in charge of the representative Loodmeal's account. I'm going to think that many, at least in my home country, have a different idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2032	There are three main ways to improve the energy supply to Middle Norway. Firstly, there is increased line capacity, there is an increase in the production of clean renewable energy in the area and there is an increase in energy efficiency. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, Enova’s box – now 16 December – is empty for this year. After all, the Christian People's Party has called for us to give more money in the matter that we are going to debate in this Chamber tomorrow, precisely for this, and we have also wanted to allocate more money in 2011 just for energy efficiency measures in households. The second point is increased production of clean renewable energy in the region. Then we know that some wind power concessions are given and some other projects are under construction. But it will be of great importance that the state make up money to take the cleaning costs of a gas power plant in central Norway, so that we can also use this energy source. But the main energy source that can do something about the power situation in Middle Norway is increase line capacity, i.e. put Ørskog-Fardal in place. That is why it is a requirement on the part of the Christian People's Party that this line race should be completed by 2015. In the setting, there has probably been a mistake on the part of the Christian People's Party. We are not proposing together with the Right when it comes to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We support the Committee's recommendation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2043	First, I would like to thank all those who have contributed. I won't spend much time because it's been a long day. As the rapporteur said, we have received a lot of support. The Ørskog-Fardal line is primarily justified by the need for more transfer capacity in Central Norway from the excess power in Sogn and Fjordane. In addition, the power line will improve security of supply in Sogn and Fjordane and locally in Sunnmøre. The left is also aware that plans for new renewable power generation in Sogn and Fjordane will require new power lines. I would like to stress that the Left is very positive to Ørskog-Fardal, and therefore do not want to be in the same situation as at Sima-Samninger. The proposers are aware that several of the sections of the Ørskog-Fardal route are of little concern, but will stress that the power line on some sections will involve a significant interference in nature. On these routes nature is unique, both nationally and internationally, with distinctive cultural landscapes and pristine nature. It seems obvious that some of these routes will create significant conflicts. The left is concerned about the progress of this project. Some of the intention of the proposal has been fulfilled by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, after the submission of this proposal, and through the feedback provided by Statnett to the Ministry. But Sima-Samnanger clearly showed that if a proposed trachea is contentious and the various parties do not trust the investigations available, it gives rise to considerable frustration. The result can now be seen, there may be great delays. Therefore, the Left believes that this project should be carried out and ensure that there is full confidence in the various investigations underpinning the concession proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2057	The power line from Sunnmaere to Inner Sogn is very important for two reasons. Firstly, Mid-Norway is an area of power deficit and will have an increasing power deficit in the next few years. The input capacity towards central Norway must therefore be reinforced. Today’s transmission capacity towards the region is simply not adapted to the consumption that Mid Norway will have in the future. Secondly, it is necessary to transport more renewable energy production from wind and hydropower both in Sogn and Fjordane and in More and Romesdal. The power delivery between Ørskog and Fardal is a prerequisite for the realisation of much of this renewable production. We have to be clear that the treatment of this power drive case has been very comprehensive and open to new recordings from different teams. For several sections, Statnett has assessed, investigated and requested different trajectory options. During its proceedings on the concession case, the NVE has ensured that Statnett has developed several additional investigations and has submitted additional requests. This also includes various cable solutions. It is therefore a thorough and broad process that has already taken place through the planning work of Statnett and the NVE proceedings. After the complaint was sent to the Ministry, we have arranged for further investigations to be carried out and several concession applications from Statnett, in line with the proposal of the representatives. In December 2009, the Ministry of State asked Statnett to investigate and assess the benefits and disadvantages of two alternatives for the northernmost power line. The alternatives are a sea cable from Ørskog with landing at Store-Standal in Ørsta municipality and a refurbishment option with a new station in Sykkylven municipality. New traffic station in Sykylven and renovation of the current 132 kV line would facilitate the use of existing new 420 kV line. The Ministry received in February this year Statenett’s study of these two options. On that basis, we asked Statnett to apply for the remediation option. The request for this option was sent from Statnett to NVE in October. After reviewing the complaints and other input into the case, I have found it necessary to ask Statnett for further investigations and concession requests for alternative solutions for three separate sections for this power drive between Sunnmøre and Sogn. This applies to the first sea/earth cable option between Ørskog and Store-Standal in Ørsta Municipality, and, secondly, to an alternative further east of Jölster, Naustdal and Flora Municipality, and, thirdly, to an alternative that is more than a concessional solution to avoid interference with the Førdedalen municipality of Bremander. Concession applications for these new options will ensure that they can be fully assessed against the concessionary trajectory when final decisions are to be taken. At the same time, I have announced that the government will take part in other sections as early as possible in the winter of 2011, so that progress in the work on this important line is maintained. Proposals are in favour of reducing an external sample to draw the overall conclusions. I cannot see that in this case there is a basis for obtaining assessments from external samples. I would like to point out that there have been thorough assessments of alternative solutions for power transmission on many sections between Sunnmøre and Inner Sogn. With the additional investigations and requests that we have now requested from Statnett, this case will have a very good decision-making basis. In my view, the concession procedure provides in a good way the transparency and transparency of the administration that the proposers demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2078	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2081	In More and Romesdal, we are far from being as watery when it comes to promises that have been made by this government, even the debate that is now going on about the Molde hospital. But okay, we're going to put that aside for so long. As mentioned in my article, the original completion of the line Ørskog-Fardal was in 2011. When does the Council of State see that More and Romesdal can have the joy of being supplied with power through the Sogndal/Fardal line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2088	If one chooses the concrete solutions that are the fastest feasible on this path, I imagine that this is possible in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2093	One of the areas currently under discussion is the area of Naustdal, Förde and Flora. There are several municipalities that are inside the image when it comes to discussing the air passage that goes there. How is it going to work on the cause and that part of the Ørskog-Fardal line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2098	With regard to the specific route that the representative Lødemel asks about, I have asked Statnett to look at opportunities within a geographical area to find solutions that go beyond the Naustdal Centre. Provision is made for the possibility of making concession applications in view of an alternative to what is currently available. In that there is no pre-conclusion from my side that what we are asking for is what it is concluded with. But it gives us an opportunity to have more alternatives to choose from, and so make sure that the decision that is being taken is also a decision that has sufficient legitimacy, and that there has been a process and investigation with which there should be reason to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2103	The Council of State says that the earliest line can be in place is in 2015. Then this government has managed to postpone it by just four years – that is not so bad. However, when the Council of State says in its speech that the power supply deficit in the region will be increasing in the next few years, a question needs to be asked whether it has considered in this process to stimulate increased power generation in this region – also in view of the debate we just had – to increase the self-production of short-range power, where one knows that there is a significant potential in the development of gas power plants. The government itself has just renewed the concession to Forest, one has discussed whether to have a dedicated gas power plant at Aukra, but put it away, one has had the projects on the Tent God, which one has scraped. But one also has Industrial Power More, which has a living project that one has a great desire to realize, but one needs clarifications about the framework conditions for CO2 cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2113	It is wrong that there is no clarification about CO2 handling in Fräna. There is a concession decision, but also a conclusion that CO2 needs to be handled, and there will be no State involvement in it. So that's a clear situation. In the case of Forest, there is also a concession that can be recovered. It hasn't been that far. But now the concession is just extended, so there's an opportunity for it. With regard to the production of so-called short-range power, good projects have been implemented in the region in recent years, both as a result of small-scale investment and through Enova’s support projects, which are at least under way. So we know that the green certificates that are now in place will contribute to improved profitability in this and will also provide the basis for enhanced production beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2128	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2133	First, I want to fix a mistake. It is such that the Right will support the recommendation of the Committee. Something crazy has happened there. Then I want to go back to the discussion that has been, and not least to the claim from Snorre Serigstad Choice the last time we discussed this matter. He claimed that I am the most pronounced opponent of new line capacity towards Middle Norway, and that I am fighting against a power supply to that region. It's in my view lying claims. I have never fought against capacity towards Middle Norway. We've discussed the solution. I have worked a lot with Ørskog-Fardal for my time as a spokesman in Hornindal. One of the lines was planned through my home municipality. I have known the fear and amputation of the body as we saw how a 420 kV power line would rage our built. It has also helped to impress me in my work. That's why I want to refute the fact that this should be an electoral rally from my side. I understand how they feel in Naustdal, in Ålfoten, in Nordfjordeid, in Sykkylven – or in Hardanger, for that cause. I have worked for several years to get a full distribution of the sea cable option on the coast of Sogn and Fjordane, with the connection point on the coast, and see this in conjunction with upgrading existing power networks. I think that Sogn and Fjordane, as one of the most important power-producing states, should have ambitions to have good capacity both for Europe and for the North Sea installations. It has not been the will of various local or central red-green politicians or energy state councils. I have to see that such visionary solutions are far too advanced for red-green politicians, and that therefore there is no current policy here and now. But I have to say that it's going to be interesting to look back in 10-15 years, if not more willingness to bet on sea cables and connecting points along the coast would be both hopeful and sensible. When the representative Sande responds to what I call what is now happening, for full penetration, I aim to finally apply for a sea cable concession, at least for parts of the distance. It's completely new. It's the first time it's happened, and I was glad that's what I call full penetration. Then I intend to apply for a sea cable concession from Hjørundfjorden to Ørskog. Then there's been a lot of talk about election fighting and my role in the election campaign when it comes to cables. I have shown why I have worked for such a solution. But there were many who were running election campaigns in 2009, and many red-green politicians traveled around the North-West and talked about that they wanted a sea cable. But what took cake was, in fact, what was in the Official Journal of Bergen on 10 September 2009: ‘SP will have cable in Hardanger. I have asked the NVE to conduct an experimental cable solution between Sima and Samnanger. That means I want cable. So said Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2155	Is it true, as the President perceived, that the minority proposal was drawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2159	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2164	Then there is no minority proposal. If the President also understood this correctly, the representative used the term ‘untruthful statements’. It's in case of an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2169	I have only quoted from the media coverage of the election campaign in Sogn and Fjordane and the debate around Ørskog-Fardal. So it's to the last representative Lødemel said, adding that the difference between this case and Sima-Samninger-the case is that the councillor Terje Riis-Johansen has stood by his word, and now he's investigating the cable in Hardanger. With the post the representative Lødemel now held, I believe he actually carried more stone to the Right's burden, and that he contributes to a general confusion in the hall. And this is important, because this case was one of the crucial issues in the election campaign in Sogn and Fjordane, and this will interest the voters in Sogn and Fjordane and in other parts of the country where there are major controversial line projects. In 2009, the Right election campaign on a sea cable runs all the way. So, right on June 8th this year in the NRK, they don't want a sea cable anyway. On 31 August, they have turned around again, and then Erna Solberg is on the team and demands a cabling, while, in the committee's position, the intentions of the Left's proposal are now furthest away by not agreeing to the proposal. It contributes to confusion, and it must mean one of two things. Either that means that the representative Lødemel has been tricked by the party management in the Right – he has been stabbed in the back, and that it is Erna Solberg who has turned and no longer wants cable in Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal – or that means that the representative Lødemel has turned. The Right-Choosers in Sogn and Fjordane will be interested to know: what has happened that makes the Right-Choosers in this case turn twice this year, before they end up in committee on the very opposite side of where they were running election campaigns? There's someone here that's not quite fair, and I think there's someone other than me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2180	Let me first express my joy at the fact that Right now – as I understand it – has drawn that proposal that they themselves promote at the beginning of the debate. I think that shows that these debates have an important function, even when it concerns the outcome of the cases completely against the interviewer. So the representative suggested in his first post that the Right had been a strong driver for the line, also for progress in time, and that there were red-green politicians who had sunk and who had made the line come later than necessary. Once again, there's a statement that's completely different from, quite different, what the same solder proclaimed in the election campaign, where on the contrary he expressed that we have a lot of time, we can run a lot of big deals, we can put this on hold and get knowledge of new technology when it comes to lines. These positions are not collapsing. I may respect the fact that the representative works for another solution, but then one must be so honest that one says that it means that the line is delayed. So I can respect that one job for another solution and not want the line, but then it's the only logical thing to make suggestions in this room where one proposes to scrape the project or at best postpone it. But the representative has not done so. I think it might be nice to be honest with their own voters, in their own constituency, that someone said something in the election campaign, but one has not followed it up through suggestions in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2187	In this debate, as in the previous one on a general powerline policy, but based on Hardanger, I am making the reflection that the government claims that it is urgent to put the lines in place, but immediately trying to discuss rather to solve the power supply challenges locally, shadows a distance. When challenging the Minister of Energy for action in relation to, for example: gas power plant in central Norway, not a finger to be lifted, not a crown to be used. One has given the concession to Forest and boasts that it was just extended, but in full confidence that it will never be realized, because it is not gas, and because one knows that it is not profitable with that location. The location of gas power plants is as important as the location is too much of any other business. It's about having a customer base, and it's about having a resource base to get profitability in it. But in the Franc, there's someone who has client base and resource base and investors and the whole package, who's willing. You can stand on the plot and hear it crackling in the state's master, and you can stand and see the lights from the Worm Lange at Aukra – ergo: a perfect location. And it's a perfect location not only in terms of infrastructure, but in terms of where you need power. But the answer from the Minister of Energy is that no, they have been granted a CO2 cleaning concession, but the government is not going to contribute a krona to help them realize CO2 cleaning. And everyone knows that then a gas power plant will not be realized either. This is really sad. I sympathise with the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has at least shown the willingness – from a government party – to meet Franna, and has said that yes, the state will take the bill for the CO2 cleaning plant, but the assumption of SV is a doubling of the CO2 charge. I don't agree with the assumption, but at least I'm glad that he's shown the willingness to discuss how to realize local power. That willingness was totally rejected by the Minister of Energy in this debate – much clearer than in previous debates. It is a warning that this government has so many political inner features that it is not possible to find the fast, good solutions. So one has to wire out of any problem, not get volume power production. It is very nice that the political secretary of the Minister of Energy has been in the NRK and has debated and boasted that nine new small power plants had emerged in central Norway. In yesterday's Great Britain Question Time, the Prime Minister rejected the fact that the two mobile gas power stations would have a significant impact on the power system. After all, they represent 100-150 small power plants. In that context, boasting of nine pieces, when the Prime Minister says that 100-150 equivalent does not matter, is nothing but throwing blues in the eyes of the voters. That is why I hope that the Council of State from this debate can take with it a will within the government to use the US Embassy and fight the government's policy to achieve something that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2210	I understand at the temperature of the posts of the representative Serigstad Valen and the representative Sande that it fell both the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party heavily for the chest that Right got a representative on the Stortinget from Sogn and Fjordane. However, we are very pleased from the Right, among other things. because it is an important contribution to raising awareness of issues that are important for District Norway. The representative Lødemel makes a solid effort in that area, probably as a major irritant for, among other things. Mr Sande. The representative Lødemel has had an involvement in this area, no doubt, also through the election campaign. It is clear that his focus and contribution to raising a problem where a greater degree of conservation and aesthetics combined with the provision of power is an important contribution to the public debate. I just want to repeat what is the right angle of incidence in these questions. Electricity supply infrastructure is important to maintain a high level of security of supply and to be secure energy supplies to both households and industry. This also applies to these lines and to strengthening the capacity towards Middle Norway. At the same time, we are concerned that we should have good local processes, where the community is heard, where we can preserve natural values, aesthetic values, and also where, where possible, we can be a driving force for technology development and the emergence of new solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2219	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1983]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2235	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2244	We will consider a proposal from the Progress Party on action to be taken against maintenance launches. The proposers believe that it is a major lag in the maintenance of public construction and infrastructure and ask the government to put in place a national plan to cover the maintenance run. Proposalers want a comprehensive review of the maintenance system where they focus on roads, railways, airports, energy distribution, public construction and water and sewerage facilities. The proposers believe that there are many reasons for this maintenance set-up and point in particular to poor organisation, poor management tools and lack of political will to grant the funds to do so. Furthermore, they justify it in a large public sector that owns and manages a large building stock and with many government employees who are not competent in property management. They also state in their proposal that they consider that there is a need to modify the budgetary system of the country and to make use of the OPS financial system. I will further justify the majority's recommendation to reject the proposal. Firstly, I would like to stress that we do not share the opinion of the proposers that the maintenance maintenance run is due, among other things. a large public sector with too many public employees and politicians who are not competent in property management. Decisions on the amount of resources to be used for maintenance are a matter of annual priority in all sectors, and not hard work, of which such a national plan may have an impact. In order to take the transport sector as an example, over the entire government period, the government has given priority to using more in road and rail maintenance than foreseen in the national transport plan presented by the Bondevik Government for 2006-2015. Why? Yes, because a comprehensive road and rail maintenance kit has been discovered after many years of neglect by various governments. This has been taken over by the government and has given priority to the appropriations for maintenance each year that the government has held. In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the government has taken the ethos proposals seriously and addressed the needs notified for maintenance. It is therefore planned to spend a total of 322 billion. kr over the state budget for the operation, maintenance and expansion of transport infrastructure over the next 10 years. That's 100 billion. kr more than the planning framework for the previous NTP, for 2006-2015, as presented by the Government of Bondevik. Furthermore, an investment strategy, both on the road and rail, has been set up in NTP 2010–2019 to focus on the more coherent development of longer distances, which will provide greater efficiency and better societal benefits, and projects could be used in the past. The government has announced a steady escalation of NTP during this large-scale period, which was followed up in the 2010 government budget and which continues in the 2011 draft budget, proposing that NTP appropriations increase by 2.6 billion. kr from the 2010 budget balance. It is through such a continuous prioritisation of maintenance that we can do something about the maintenance work in the transport sector, which I have highlighted in particular. Work in advance of the NTP carried out an evaluation of the various forms of organisation and funding for the most efficient use of resources. OPS, which the proposers point to as a solution, has been specifically evaluated. Three road development projects have been tested in the previous NTP. The government engaged TØI and Dovre International AS to evaluate these. Experience so far has shown that the OPS model has given faster project implementation and the combination of development and operation has been positive. However, the evaluation report also states that it is not possible to demonstrate either higher or lower costs than traditional implementation, and that it is possible to obtain gains through better contract strategies within the ordinary budgetary appropriations, regardless of private funding. The hypothesis of optimising life-cycle costs cannot be confirmed at this stage. On the contrary, the evaluation points out that the OPS company’s monopoly to implement changes to the road system is a major challenge and may lead to increased life-cycle costs. In addition, OPS commits large sums to the annual budgets and reduces the space for action. There are several governments in the wake of the financial crisis. OPS is a model that the government and the majority of the population in the treatment of NTP 2010-2019 do not need to continue now and there is no change in it that has occurred in the last year. Instead, the government has, first of all, given priority to spending more money than ever on transportation. Secondly, three major investment projects – E6 west of Alta, E16 and the Oslo-Ski railway project – have been carried out on their own lines in the State budget, which will provide coherent and predictable development of these major development projects. Work is now under way on the transport plan to be adopted in 2013 for re-examined priorities and assessments. This government has shown through its budgets that it prioritises both road and rail investment. Our challenge is to see the needs in context and to expand, operate and maintain the infrastructure so that it does not deteriorate. It must be done through continuous and scheduled work in all sectors, not as proposed here, through a hard-working effort. We therefore do not see the need for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2270	The representative proposal of the Progress Party is based on a report by the Advisory Engineers' Association, presented in March 2010 – a kind of national status. The report provides an estimate of the maintenance allowance for public buildings and infrastructure of more than 800 billion. kr. The report covers eleven key areas of public construction and infrastructure: municipal construction, health construction, railway, airports, national and county roads, municipal roads, water supply facilities, sewerage, waste, energy production and energy distribution. The report provides a picture of a large maintenance kit drag, incomplete management and lack of long-term planning. Among many important issues, I would like to point out two: firstly, this is a review and an overview that the state should make regularly. Reading of the quality of maintenance on national infrastructure is important. National infrastructure is a national tool for value creation, growth and prosperity. A skilled craftsman takes good care of the tool. It is worrying that the public sector is not doing the same. It is not satisfactory that the government does not keep an overview, does not provide data and does not pursue improvement in the infrastructure in order to get the maintenance up to good standard. Good standard is good store. The goal in the world's best country should be the world's best infrastructure. The report shows that there is a long way to go. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance's assessment of the proposals of the Progressive Party shows that the government and the Council of State do not take this issue seriously, as the Association of Consultative Engineers has pointed out. Deceases in public infrastructure are bad public households. When many governments – including this one – allow the infrastructure to lapse, the public asset is not a good asset. Secondly, aviation is the only exception. Here, the situation is significantly better than in most other areas – perhaps because maintenance and investment funds have been secured through the form of funding and the company model of Avinor, and also because aviation operates under very strict supervision. The drivers must be on the road, not accepted on the runway. Happy we should be for it. The Progress Party considers that the report shows how the maintenance of national infrastructure has been neglected over a long period of time. Many have to share that responsibility. Norway is a rich country. The Progress Party believes that Norway has a unique opportunity to upgrade poorly maintained infrastructure. The Government considers that the Government should submit a plan for the Storting to collect maintenance facilities in the public sector. Such a plan should be cross-sectoral. It should contain clear objectives and tools that include clear, predictable and long-term funding. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree that the space for action in the Norwegian economy must be used in the most efficient way possible. It requires the use of other funding and organisational models, such as: project financing and OPS. I refer to the next case and would just briefly say that the Progress Party, together with the Right and Christian People's Party, is asking the government to open up for more use of OPS, project funding and alternative organisation of development projects. This is what we want in order to ensure the more efficient, predictable and rational implementation of maintenance and development projects. Finally, a comment on the comment letter from the Minister for Finance: The Progress Party agrees that not only State investment contributes to increased future well-being and value creation. But well maintained school buildings, well maintained hospitals and well maintained roads contribute – a lot. Norway has a liberal economy. It should mean good maintenance of all important public infrastructure. The Minister of Finance and the Government explain the lack of maintenance effort with the rule of action. Rather, the Progress Party will take action to improve the maintenance of our common national tools, infrastructure in the public sector. I raise proposals that the Progress Party has alone and together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2293	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2296	Right-wing believes that increased focus and attention is important when it comes to taking care of existing infrastructure and thus already invested capital, whether in state, county or municipality. The right considers it important to have a planned view of maintenance, which is followed up in the ordinary budgetary procedures at the different levels. The right has also said that we believe that the government focuses more on new projects, forgetting that existing property and infrastructure also need political attention. The announcement of the perspective to the Government of Bondevik II showed an efficiency potential in public activities of between 10 and 26 p.m. If the red-green government had taken some of this, the work on following up this maintenance run would be considerably easier, and money would be released, and some assets could actually be sold or disposed of. In the last few years, in the alternative state budget of the Right, the right has, among other things, priority sale of public property — through Entra, but also locally and regionally in local communities where the Right is involved. When it comes to betting on transportation, we have a separate case about this later, but this case deals with parts of the same thing, which was also discussed by the case rapporteur. So when it comes to commercialization, the Right would point out that we have a proposal to set up a maintenance fund of 50 billion. kr, which we believe should be added to ordinary appropriations, and used to meet the challenges of the major delays, both on the road network and on the railway network. The right also believes that the government is getting too little out of the money, and we are critical that the government is constantly resisting OPS solutions and Public Private Cooperation also in terms of operations. In the view of the Right, an increased focus on the relationship between investment costs and operating and maintenance costs triggered by the new investments is absolutely necessary. Therefore, it is important to use other and more modern models for example. road financing. The right has also made proposals in the Stortinget to split the railway works into two units, one part owning the infrastructure and stations, the other part carrying out investments and maintenance in competition with other operators. With regard to the maintenance of the road network, the Right has a desire to have independent roadside supervision, separated from the State Road Service, so that supervision can operate independently, as other supervision does today. Better roadside supervision will result in increased focus on the operation and focus on the maintenance of existing road networks, which in turn would lead to actions being implemented at an earlier stage and thus greater and more expensive damage would not occur. Right refers to the fact that the Bondevik II government in the 2006 budget proposed a significantly more effective government construction and property policy. This reform includes, inter alia: an extension of the renting arrangement by distinction between user and manager, to cover as a general rule all state property, the introduction of new decision-making procedures, the establishment of an advisory body to distinguish the advisory role and the supplier role, the establishment of an management company to manage all government properties in the university and higher education sectors, the framework conditions contributing to increased competition and efficiency in property management itself and the organisation of better and more continuous maintenance. The total savings for this policy was estimated to be a place between 1 billion. and 2 billion. kr. This has not been followed up by the red-green government, either by Stoltenberg II or Stoltenberg I. The right considers that it is not always a public task to build, own and operate offers that can be resolved in cooperation with private actors. There are a number of models where private buildings are built and public rentals are built. Private ownership is also very common in kindergartens, child protection, schools, drug care and more and more in social housing. User surveys show that private services often score higher on satisfaction among users, in particular in terms of maintenance and building standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2317	I'm not on the Financial Committee, but I'm on the Control and Constitutional Committee and on the Transport Committee, so I want it to focus on this post. The impact of the policies implemented by the Right and the Progress Party in 2003 is very limited to the current price developments. So it turns out that the consequence of the changes that the Right Party and the Progress Party made in 2003 and that one of them was going to make so much money is that it's now 100 pst. to drive road maintenance more expensively than it was before 2003. So here, the responsibility has to be placed where it's at home, that's at the Right and the Advance Party, which has put up a system that makes us less upkeep for our money. The taxpayers get dizzy, but maintenance is no better. Although we increase the maintenance budget as much as we do, we could have spent even more money on it. But if we didn't have this Right Party system, we would have had a lot more money to run for. Blackevik and Kambe, who keep their cigars high, must really take over today. It's always nice to know a little bit about history. Kambe has not been on the Stortinget for so long, but I can tell him that in 2004, when the National Transport Plan was signed, he was signed by the Progress Party, the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party, against the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The reason why the Right voted against was because these parties plus the budget by 1 billion. kr. It calls the Right of an 'air billion'. It was never followed up, because there was not enough money for so much road and road traffic in the national transport plan, it was said. This is very interesting. When one finally got out of the government offices, the money came back, and as one thought, it was too much when the Progress Party, SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party proposed this in the treatment of the National Transport Plan. Finally, I can also greet the most cigar-leading party here, the Progress Party. They have training in creating multiple languages in Norway for politics – quite briefly. But in three budgets, the Progress Party, together with the Kambe Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, has formed a plurality for the budget. The Progress Party has made a fantastic effort in three budgets. In the course of three budgetary negotiations with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, the Progress Party was able to add up to a total of 1 million. kr on the maintenance budget – fantastic, you ask me. What kind of effort does the progress party make when they really have the possibility! They should show some of the policies they stand for, and not get out of the way they did. I think the voters in Norway should be very happy that they have a red-green government that has really taken this seriously with road maintenance and other maintenance. For example, I am running a motorcycle, and I get a lot of feedback about the great effort we are doing both when it comes to asphalting and road maintenance right now. We didn't have that before. This is where things happen, and the users are happy. But what many users aren't happy with is the system you have for road maintenance, which the Right and the Progress Party put in place. The truck owners are very critical, and they want the old system back. I think the voters should be very pleased that they have a red-green government, and they don't have the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in government. When they're in position, they don't have the money that we red-green deliver for maintenance today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2334	I believe and hope, at least, that everyone in this Chamber agrees that maintenance is too bad. I also hope that everyone agrees that some of the reasons for this are that there has to be a system error in the decision-making basis provided for both local government, filling and landfill, when the maintenance of expensive infrastructure is not better than it is. I cannot understand that other than the need to change the decision-making framework, so that one can make clear the choices faced by the elected representatives when deciding whether to maintain the infrastructure or to postpone it for another year. That's something I hope a finance minister who has life experience is interested in going into, so it's made clear to those who make the decisions. I would also like to say that what the government has done on some of the most central infrastructure, namely road and rail, is exemplary, where a very difficult priority has prioritised maintenance and not started new projects, such as it was previously largely done, performance projects, where a down tone just maintained. It is very nice that we have a government that is clear in that area in its priorities. Then the Party Right continues to come forward with its proposals on funds, increasingly new fund structures as a substitute for annual appropriations. I don't quite understand why one should be so busy with funds. That's a lot more complicated. What is needed are increased annual appropriations, so that a thing can create a system where investment and maintenance appropriations can compete with welfare improvements. It is therefore absolutely necessary to look at a separate infrastructure investment budget in order to make it clear that this applies to investments that have a value for many years to come and that it is unreasonable to compete with welfare improvements that will be costs for each year in the future. To the ever-recurring point of Public Private Cooperation in the case of investments in the way, I have to say that it is nothing but an ideological point of view from the Right and the Advance Party that is not adapted to the state economy of Norway. Public Private Cooperation is not adapted to the state economy of Norway. In the past, there has been a proposal and an instrument used in countries that do not have a sufficient state economy, so a person has had to borrow or lease such measures. The right has never pointed out that it is more expensive to borrow privately than to use the state's own money, and I think that one should soon get away from this, when it's a fact that the state's money is the absolutely cheapest. The government has, as an alternative, in terms of Public Private Cooperation for the implementation of projects, new forms of contract where both planning and implementation are carried out by the same contractor. There is something that should be developed further. Here, there are great opportunities for interaction between the public planner, who pays and is the project manager, and the contractor who can then find solutions that perhaps the public planner is not so good at getting, which we have a number of examples of. With regard to the Right's proposal on roadside supervision, we in the Center Party see it as an unnecessary matter. What should have been more focused on, for example, is minimum roads, minimum requirements related to the fact that it should be asphalt and that it can withstand 10 tons of axle loads, which we in the government are working to get through, but it requires its large allocations, seagoingly. Finally, the question of upgrading water and sewerage systems. There's a big maintenance kit. So far, there has been a competition in having low water and sewerage charges. It should be replaced by a competition linked to quality. This gives us a completely different focus on that question as well. I hope that we will soon get the new law of public ownership of water and drain to Stortinget. There is great impatience in getting this law, thus clarifying that the type of infrastructure should be owned by the public, not by private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2351	First, I would like to say that my contribution concerns both matters of the Financial Committee. I should first like to say that also in the case of the next case, we will be included in the proposal. There's a problem in the setting, but we're on the minority proposal. Then I've said that, and saved a few more minutes. I must first say that it is always a pleasure to listen to the representative Langeland, both because he is highly prestigious and sometimes quite festive. I have to say that I got a new experience today when I realized that the new criterion for success for SVs is whether the motorcyclists are satisfied with the asphalt. So I understand that there has been a significant development in where SV takes its select mass from – a little away from the soft values, and over to the slightly harder asphalt values. I'm sure that's what you need. I would like to say that with the debate we have had earlier this week on cooperation between the private and the public in the health and social sectors, I am told that I do not have the great hopes either in terms of cooperation in the sector we are talking about here. I have seen that, for example. The centre party has actually been a driver – at least externally – for stronger cooperation in other ways of financing large projects than we have seen so far. This may include: This is why the Minister for Transport has actually committed such a small-scale counterattack to the Minister for Finance and has started his own investigations in this field, and it has probably its background in a slightly different position. On the other hand, the current Minister of Finance, when he was a Member State, has also had considerable visions of how private-public cooperation could develop, but it is more or less abandoned now. The rapporteur pointed out – and I think that was very good – that there were actually some advantages associated with private-public cooperation. Not least the implementation and time involved. Why, then, should we not better investigate this, see what opportunities lie there? It's okay that we have enough money, that's not what it says. But there may also be some effects of cooperation between the private and the public in this sector that everyone serves. That's what we from the Christian People's Party are interested in finding out, both in this case and in the next case, and we recommend the minority positions we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2362	Then the President has registered support for the minority proposal in the next case, and the President is pleased with the efficiency of the public sector and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2365	Much has been said, and I shall not withdraw this debate. I also connect the next two things. But I need to point out a few things. I got an extra point now, after the representative from Langeland. Yes, for the left plus 1.2 billion. kr for rail and public transport, a proposal that the so-called environmental party voted in favour. There is no doubt that proposers have a good point of view in terms of the great challenge of maintaining the maintenance system and the need for a comprehensive review of the issue. Secondly, the Council of State has a point when it is pointed out that there are no quick solutions, but that there are essentially real priorities within a responsible framework that is crucial. It is politically boring to grant money for maintenance instead of granting them new, exciting measures, but sometimes the boring is strictly necessary. Although there are no «rapid solutions», it must be allowed to think a little differently from what is done by the government and government parties. There is a review tone that everything to be done is to be done as before, and everything is to be carried out and carried out under public and official control. As I and the Left point out in the vote, the challenges need to be seen in a coherent context between economic priorities and the will to modernise the public sector, among others. in the case of the municipal structure. For example, I want to do this. point out that increased use of OPS – cf. The next item is the introduction of neutral VAT for central government and the proposal by the Bondevik II government on an effective government building and property policy can release funds that can be used to cover parts of the maintenance allowance. The government's lack of willingness to address these issues and to look at other modernisation measures does not make the challenges of the maintenance phase any easier in the coming years. The Left proposes that the proposal of the Progress Party be annexed to the Minutes. We could, in isolation, vote in favour of the proposal to draw up a plan for the collection of maintenance kits, but we believe that a little too many of the premises in the proposal do not make it appropriate. However, we are surprised that the government parties totally reject the proposal for an overall plan, but are bombastic that only sectoral plans are needed. Well, everything is related to everything that Gro Harlem Brundtland so aptly said. That is why I and the Left believe that it should be assessed whether it does not, for example. in the context of the next draft state budget, a draft for an overall plan for the collection of the maintenance seat suspension should be presented. I'll bring this up to the left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2383	The representative Borghild Tenden then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2386	Maintenance is important. I think we can quickly agree on that from all parties. Making good investments pay off is not a good policy. Unfortunately, as others have been in the past, things have not been properly maintained over time. I also think it's important when you're going to go forward, that a teacher of what's happened in the past. Then I also agree with those who say – to say it with a glimpse of the eye – that it is kind of more stubborn to cut a string on a new plant than it is to say thank you for the job of those who have raised a school, or to those who have asphalted a poor whitening. But I think we have to get there, maybe we have a greater focus on how important it is to maintain what we have in a good way. So I believe that this is something that we can largely deal with through what we call sectoral plans. The individual agencies responsible for large investment must include it in their plans, promote their proposals, so that it also becomes part of the annual priorities we are making in the work on the State budget. I have 12 years of experience as far as County and have had extensive cooperation and extensive contact with my municipalities in Hedmark. If there's something I've been very clear about, there's a need for you to discuss maintenance at the same time as you look at and discuss new investments in different things in the municipality. In addition to this, the State has also, for example, to the municipal sector, with state loans to school buildings, churches, etc. to increase maintenance in the municipal sector. Then it is also such that the government bets significantly on maintenance. An example is the national transport plan that we are now in, where the frame was increased by 100 billion. kr in relation to the frameworks of the Bondevik II Government of the plan they submitted for 2006-2015. Then, of course, the proposers also deal with a wide range of other issues. OPS we have to get back to the next case. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a debt financing, periodicisation, etc., discussed in connection with the Yellow Book in 2007. of the expenditure of the State and that one reason for not having specific budgetary arrangements in addition to that of the State budget for State investment. There's so much maintenance. One here refers to a study by the Consulting Engineers' Association on the tougher investments. But I want to make it clear, and it also says in the letter I sent to the committee, that 75-80 pst. of national wealth, a little bit because of how a person calculates it, what we call human capital, so that processing and developing the labour force may also be a very important part of the work we are going to do in order to increase value creation and production in Norway. I think it's hard in a way to imagine that one should make a distinction between what can be soft and hard maintenance costs. It is important what we do on the educational side, on the kindergarten side, on the health side to ensure that one has the best and most competent workforce at all times. The principle of cash is a good principle. That principle has served us well over many years, and I don't see any reason why we're going to mess too much with a system that turns out to work in a good way. In fact, it makes sense, whether it's government finances or other finances, to try to have the best possible overview of what you have. Trying to finance things outside the budget, in order to get more money available, over time will be a dangerous way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2407	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2410	The report refers to eleven different sectors in which there is public infrastructure, and that is a significant one, not to say substantial aftermath. Does the Council of State consider it irrelevant for most people and for the quality of welfare in Norway that we have such a large decline in infrastructure? Is it not important that, just as the Council of State said, the labour force has good tools? In fact, with poorly maintained infrastructure, we have poor tools. A point number. two: in the summary of this report, these advisory engineers address the following: «Too large investment projects, we should test out forms of financing other than those we have today.» Now I know that the Council of State has expressed itself in many contexts about what he meant before, and what he means now. But does he think that the input from consultant engineers as part of the tool to get rid of the retarded maintenance is just to reject?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2422	As I said in my post, maintenance is important, and I also stress this by, among other things. to refer to the strong escalation achieved through the national transport plan through the borrowing arrangements for maintenance in the local government sector. I believe that this is important, but it is not so important that you can find arrangements that allow it to be financed outside the ordinary budgetary priorities. The 2011 budget is 960 billion. kr, and it must be possible to prioritize within that framework, which I believe the government is doing. In my view, it is important that maintenance in different areas also has to compete against exclusions in other key societal areas. But maintenance is important, and we can quickly agree that there are many who have neglected in the years we have behind us in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2429	Let me immediately say that the Right largely agrees with the Minister of Finance that it is important to have steady governance in the Norwegian economy. I have to say that the Minister of Finance appealed more to me with his new ideas when he was county than he did now after he became Minister of Finance, because this is about getting an order on a post that all the confessors have been there for a long time, and that has built up over a long time. And that's in the context that we've then allowed ourselves to say, let's do this with a fund that comes in addition to the ordinary appropriations, to get the order of this lag. What's interesting for us to know about the Minister of Finance now is: Is this an ideological question, first of all, for the government, or is it a professional question that makes you not want to support us in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2436	It has been said that what a former or present or future politician has said before is his worst enemy, and I have on various occasions been met with the post that I wrote with my good former colleague Sandman. I guess I've answered that before. It was a post in which we called for larger appropriations, first of all, for road and rail. It came in the national transport plan. So it is likely that it is possible to admit that I was a little bit more rusty then compared to the more budgetary matters, which I believe are important. It was good to have it freshened up. But then it's like this, which I also gave in response to the previous line, that yes, maintenance is important. But I think it's actually so important that we should give it priority to other things that we do in the state budget. I believe that making arrangements that come on the outside of the state budget, there are fund arrangements or other things, will cause one over time to lose the overview of the total use of money in the budget. That's why it's not a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2443	At least then I realize that old love for the Ministry of Finance does not rust. That will be the conclusion. The love of the budgetary solutions prescribed from there has come back. My question is basically more ideological when we talk about infrastructure, maintenance, collaboration between private and public. Does the Council of State at all have any ideological barriers to such cooperation, or is it a question of what is most concretely appropriate in the individual case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2450	When discussing this, it is often put in a OPS context. However, there is, in fact, considerable cooperation between public and private enterprises, for example. in road construction. A large number of private companies are used. There are tenders being put out, and I imagine that along with the big, heavy players, for example. on the road side, it is possible to try to develop new forms of contract ranging from maintenance, investment, operation, etc. to make more effective use of the means available to us. That's where I think it's a lot to pick up. I'm also willing to look a little bit into those paths, but, on the other hand, financing large projects outside the state budget where there is a small overview of the future counts is something that will probably be a lot longer inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2455	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2460	Everyone is fully aware that the maintenance run in the public sector is large, and according to the report it turns out that the lag on public construction and infrastructure is 800 billion. kr. The worst jobs are municipal construction, sewerage, highways and railways. There is a great danger that the aftermath will also grow in the future. In many municipalities it is so crazy that they have almost stopped allowing money for maintenance on the operating budget. Many municipalities finance maintenance with loans and call it investment. Now the municipalities' debts are so large that the county is likely to put a stop to this way of financing maintenance. Then we get an even worse situation in the years to come. When the government party and government brag about how much free money has been allowed to the municipalities since the government took over in 2005, I am puzzled that local politicians do not find room for resuming the maintenance run. Does this have anything to do with the fact that local politicians do not have these free resources at their disposal, because the costs since 2005 are so high that our local politicians are left behind as blackmailers, and are unable to explain to their inhabitants what the government has done? The proposers of the proposal we are discussing now point to a number of measures that should be implemented to reduce and re-establish the backlog. These proposals, in my view, are good measures which, if implemented, will lead to the elimination of maintenance delays over time. A new system of accounting for the public sector, including: depreciation is part of the billing process. In my opinion, it will give you a much better overview of your local government's financial situation. I note that a majority, with the exception of the Progress Party and the Left, do not share the view of the proposers that the follow-up has its roots in a large public sector with many added, and politicians who do not have competence in property management. Everyone, with the exception of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, points out that it is about priority. I have to ask: why do not these plural parties have contact with their respective local politicians and tell them what is expected of them? I'm afraid the maintenance run will only increase for years to come. In my view, the main reason for this is that the government is not interested in making use of the Progression Party solutions – solutions that would help to remove the huge maintenance run.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2478	These included: the statements by the representatives of Langeland and Lundtigen, who led me to speak. In addition to enjoying the entertainment content, those who are more critical of the political content can rejoice that we have soon completed a year, and we are approaching government change. The lack of money is a question that arises when we face such a comprehensive maintenance kit that what is revealed by this report. Let me then remind you that this is public infrastructure. A lot of what's in public ownership is probably still going to be in public possession in the future, so we need to find tools and grips that can do something about it. So for the lack of money, there's a government budget surplus for next year of over 150 billion. kr. We want a fund at the end of the year of over 3,000 billion. kr. I think for most people it's a little hard to understand that the sacred budget balance is always to be defined by the government so that you can't afford a penny more for maintenance. That is what the Progress Party believes is wrong. The Progress Party believes that we are a rich country, that we should take advice on upgrading the infrastructure, that it is an important step also in a generation perspective, and that we are providing good tools – because it is public infrastructure – also for future generations. In that context, this maturity is simply not at stake when we're as rich as we are. The Progress Party will, among other things, have a fund. That's one of the solutions that we've been pointing at. We are pleased that when we talk about fund solutions and the creation of funds, we have gradually received support from the Right. We're happy about that. Now we also hope that other opposition parties will come after and be for fund resolution. The Minister of Finance then rejects the need for a government loan scheme, but at the same time it is shown that there is a loan scheme for municipalities and county municipalities. So in the same way, you could do it in state agencies and deal with it within a budget framework, as you can now do with the loans that go to both municipalities and county municipalities. That would be one solution. Another solution would be to convert several agencies into state enterprises, as the Progress Party has proposed a number of times, and not so many other parties have so far been involved. But it's a solution that would make it possible to speed up both investment and maintenance. In that way, Avinor is a good example of that. These engineers also point out in their report that the only deviation we find is in aviation and in Avinor, which has its own financing model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2489	It was Langeland's entertaining post that also made me take the floor. I just want to correct him on an actual mistake. He said that the Right called the draft budget an air lock. We didn't. It was another party that did, without me mentioning it from here. Langeland says that maintenance costs have increased by nearly 100 pst, and he makes it sound like it's the Right and the Advance Party's fault. Yes, there is a lot to take over! If he had read his own government short-term reports and looked a little at how the cost increase has been in this sector in general, including for investment, he would have discovered that it has been exceptionally high, especially because it was used to create new activity in a financial crisis situation. That's a big part of the explanation, and there's a lot that can be linked to it, without me having time to go into it. But there are also other things that have increased maintenance costs compared to the past, for example: the terms and conditions relating to the agreements have been substantially amended. This of course knows Langeland, but it's not timely to mention it in a little rhetorical post, of course. It is a bit interesting that when he goes further, we almost get an understanding that he will reverse the Mesta organisation and go back to his own maintenance and development department at the State Road Administration. No one is preventing this government from doing so. You have a majority in this Chamber. They could have done it for five to six consecutive years. Most people who read the documents then understand that SV's view in this context is not consistent with that of the government. Rather, the government has been very clear in contrast to the state budget we have been dealing with this autumn that they recommend not to go back to the old organization, precisely for reasons that I have stated. I would recommend Langeland to read the government's own documents. He may have great joy and benefit from it, I think. Then I have a few seconds left. I wonder if I should just link a little comment to Lundtigen, who said that we would have funds to replace annual appropriations. That's not right. We want a fund to meet the enormous challenge that lies in the great aftermath. When the big aftertaste is taken again and we are on wheels, we have to assess whether it is right to still have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2500	I can't let you comment on any of the things that have come out here. We do not disagree with the fact that there is a maintenance run on infrastructure such as road and rail. On the contrary, this government has just given priority to the focus and allocation of maintenance within these sectors in relation to previous governments, and received a great deal of praise for it. It is therefore a paradox to me that the Right now believes that ‘there is an important need to focus and focus on taking care of existing infrastructure’, as stated in the remark. The legacy of the Bondevik administration was a large number of projects started on the road and rail and an additional degraded infrastructure. So where was the focus when it came to taking care of existing infrastructure in the years when the Bondevik government crashed? The focus was on cable cutting and not maintenance. We are now experiencing major problems on the railway due to the maintenance system that has emerged after many years with changing governments and that changing governments must be responsible for. There is a aftermath that has gone so far that there is now a full stop on some sections, as I have experienced in the Oslo tunnel. This government has seized this and granted more funds for maintenance than foreseen in the NTP provided by the Bondevik Government. In all sectors, investment and maintenance plans exist in order to see this in context. That's where these priorities belong, not in a separate plan that focuses only on maintenance for seemingly putting it on the agenda, as the opposition is now doing. This government prioritises maintenance and implements the plans. The opposition is asking for more plans. In addition, I have noticed that the Right has cut in maintenance and operation on the railway in the next year's budget. It's possible they'll compensate through the fund they're talking about, but so far it's not visible what they're thinking. It's a bad signal for the maintenance on the railway that Right actually cuts in this budget. There will also be a strange signal in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2513	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1983]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2530	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2539	We shall consider a proposal from the Right to develop a national strategy to extend the use of OPS in Norway. The proposal emphasises that there are many large public building projects to be launched in the future and that there are large delays on the maintenance side. It is also pointed out that the economy sets clear limits on how much public expenditure can increase, and that if we are to avoid unsolved tasks, the money must be used more wisely. ‘The proposers believe that the key to ensuring the sustainability of the welfare society is to create better and more efficient services. It requires new solutions.’» The right points to OPS as the response to this and argues for it in the proposal and in its comments. I will further justify the majority's recommendation to reject the proposal. For several years now, and most recently in this year's transport budget debate, I have heard Højre's mantra that they are promoting modern and new solutions. Now the Right believes that they have also found the key to ensuring the sustainability of the welfare society. What are the new and modern solutions they propose? Yes, the Right will bet on the OPS, they will yet have a national strategy to increase its use. These are old solutions that have been tested before and with which there is not only positive experience, which the Right overlooks in the justification for its proposal, despite publicly known evaluation reports and negative feedback in some other countries, on which the government has used its policy in this area. I agree with the rapporteurs that the tasks are many, and that the economy sets clear limits on how much public expenditure can increase. However, how we are to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society is a debate that does not have a clear response and is ongoing between both political parties and other social actors in several areas of the welfare society. I think it is strange that the proposers focus only on OPS as a solution to create better and more efficient services and ensure the sustainability of the welfare society. For example, the NHO, to which the proposers refer, focuses in its report ‘Rassier and smarter transport development’ on project funding as a generic term for funding solutions that ensure appropriations for the entire project at start-up. The NHO emphasises the objective of coherent and predictable development and funding, and recommends testing forms that are simple to implement and politically low-controversial. The government is committed to ensuring a sustainable welfare society through all its priorities. It is therefore important both to use Community resources and to make the best use of them. The government emphasises the conduct of a responsible economic policy within the framework of the rule of action. This means that the government is undermined if part of the government expenditure is financed outside the ordinary budget and pushed to the future financial year, as is the experience with OPS. One objective we share with the proposers is to develop larger transport projects coherently and with predictable funding. The government of Stoltenberg's response to this is an offensive transport plan where, first of all, more money is spent on transportation than ever. Secondly, it is a priority to test out and evaluate new, modern solutions for both the planning, organisation and financing of transport projects, including new and modern infrastructure solutions such as: high-speed rails. The government has assessed several alternative financing models for infrastructure development in advance. OPS has been tested on three NTP 2002-2011 road development projects. The government has engaged TØI and Dovre International AS to evaluate these, and the experience so far shows that the OPS model has given faster project implementation and that the development and operation combination has been positive. However, it is not possible to demonstrate either higher or lower costs than traditional implementation, and the hypothesis of optimising life-cycle costs cannot be confirmed. On the contrary, the evaluation points out that the OPS company’s monopoly to implement changes in the road system is a major challenge and could lead to increased life-cycle costs. In addition, OPS commits large sums in the annual budgets and reduces the space for action – several governments have experienced in the wake of the financial crisis. Therefore, there is a need for project funding that provides more predictable and financially responsible funding. First of all, the government has given priority to spending more money than ever on transportation. In addition, three transport projects are set out under their own heading in the budget – E6 west of Alta, E16 and the Oslo-Ski railway project – which will provide coherent and predictable development and financing of the development projects. I believe that, in addition to focusing on organisation and funding, we need to focus on the very decision-making basis of the investments, namely the national transport plan. Today's plan is a good step on the way to achieving a comprehensive transport plan, but our challenge is to see the needs in context and to expand, operate and maintain a coherent transport system here in the country. That's where the next plan has to get better. This is working forward-looking and on-going with new and modern solutions to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2570	The proposals of the Right address a review of national and international experience on the use of Public Private Cooperation and the development of a government strategy to develop Public Private Cooperation in both local and national projects. The Progress Party believes that this is a good proposal. I will deal with the proposals that the Progress Party has, along with the Right and Left. The parties to the Government, which represent the majority of the cases in this case, consider that the proposers have a dogmatic attitude to OPS. Those who doubt old solutions are even dangerously close to dogmatic. What the Progress Party wants is to use new funding tools and new organisational tools to speed up the construction of national infrastructure. The government parties are, I think, as much in spite of their own voters in this field as they are in terms of privatisation and outsourcing. We have just received a reminder of it through a recent study. If part of the government expenditure is financed outside the ordinary budget, the majority of the action and fiscal action spaces are undermined. It's far from a correct picture. Socio-economically important renewal of infrastructure, basis for increased competitiveness and value creation are undermined if we are not able to facilitate the financing of important development projects as investment and not as current expenditure. Renewal is undermined and delayed if we do not use tools such as project finance and Public Private Cooperation. The government has no offensive transport plan for the period 2010–2019. In fact, money use is significantly increased, something else would be alarming. This government has more money at its disposal than any other government has. Of course, the framework for necessary investments in road and rail should and must then be increased in line with the great need, but the government's plan does not meet that need. It will take 50–70 years at the government's so-called offensive pace to modernise the road and rail network in Norway. The Government’s transport plan is therefore a waiting list for roads and for railway projects. The government has change-repudiation and dogmatic resistance to extending the use of good solutions. Evaluation has shown that the use of OPS projects in Norway has positive effects, and studies from other European countries have also shown that there is a good tool in many different sectors. A main argument against increasing the rate of implementation of the investment programme through the use of new tools is justified by the fact that the budget is then tied up and the scope for action is reduced. This may be partly correct, but depends on both organisation and funding. What is obvious is that the government will have many projects on the waiting list rather than many projects under construction. For what does no mean "binding up action rooms"? Well, that means postponing the construction of projects you really want to build, and the reason is that the space for action is important. There'll be a room without action. The progress party wants to take action, so we want to use a new tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2590	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2593	That's good, because then I won't forget it. What we can agree on is that it is important to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society. That is where we fully agree with the rapporteur. But it's strange in such a light that the red-greens not only have an allergy to private and an aversion to modernisation, but also almost any alternative to the ways we solve the challenges today. What the proposers asked for was the development of a national strategy to extend the use of Public Private Cooperation in Norway. A strategic review – as I see it at least – also means identifying where and what kind of projects the method is suitable for and can be used on. The majority talk as if it's just on the road and around NTP, but it can be adapted to many sectors of society and many challenges – it's probably just to mention school, railway, hospitals, roads, and in Sweden you even try to build hospitals. But we note, as the previous speaker also said, that we have a government that has a dogmatic attitude towards and resistance to OPS. An attempt is also made to create the impression that the proposers only consider OPS as the solution. It is important to clarify that OPS is an addition to the current way of doing so. No one is either talking about or thinking that OPS should become the only solution. However, OPS stimulates competition and creativity and is therefore very important and central to the efficient use of resources in society, for which the majority claim to be so concerned. But without stimulating competition, creativity and new ways of solving challenges at all levels, I dare say that there is also ‘on the back’ – or ‘on the back’ – to get effective resource use. I note with great satisfaction that many red-green politicians are now writing reading articles that actually use the OPS projects as a template for being effective in today's implementation of transport projects, and better goals for the OPS projects of the Bondevik II and Right Government being good projects are hardly being achieved. So the OPS has demonstrated its eligibility, it has also documented TØI. That's what the majority of people write about in their comments. So little about the debt crisis in Europe, because it will affect investment. Of course, investment is also part of the challenges created – everything has contributed to the challenges now facing Europe. But the majority suggest in their comments that the blame can be placed on the method, suggesting that several countries in Europe have tried to trick themselves using OPS. I don't know if that's right – the majority gets to take responsibility for their descriptions themselves – but in that case it's not the fault of the method, it's the challenge of politics. Thus, it falls on stone ground to use it as an argument against OPS. But what you could say is that Europe has had a lot of experience with the use of OPS that we could benefit from if we followed what the experience actually has shown, because I think we have to agree that it is obvious that OPS is appropriate, has to do with size, complexity and type of projects. So maybe that's not a method that suits everything. It also recognises the rapporteurs. It's a little strange, because there are several private actors who closely follow what's going on in Europe, and the fact that you didn't go to the hearing, I think it's more about the government's dogmatic attitude than you're not interested. That's pretty obvious. So finally, the majority focus on a responsible policy. Here we are in complete agreement, we have said that to the boring. But at the same time – when you say that you are so good at getting to the 4 p.m. rule – there may be reason to recall what the rule of action contained in addition, and it was that the space of action created by the 4 p.m. rule should go to knowledge, to transportation and to growth-enhancing tax reliefs. There the NHO has shown that under today's government 1.5 out of 10 goes to that type of investment, and under the previous government 9 out of 10 actually went to that type of investment. The strange thing about today's debate is that you haven't recorded the impatience that's gone. I think the red-greens make a big mistake when they talk more about our solutions than focusing on creating their own solutions – because they obviously need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2612	The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left supports the Right's proposal to develop a national strategy to extend the use of OPS as a method, as it is called. It is further said that it is ‘wonderful that the majority appears to have a dogmatic attitude to the non-use of OPS’. For the Centre Party, the core of OPS is private financing, and private financing must only be relevant because there is scarcity of government investment crowns. However, when the shortage of investment money becomes too high for those responsible, private investment capital, which is then disbursed with interest over many years, comes as an emergency solution. The discussion in this room and in the media is to a large extent marked by the fact that there is not enough investment capital in relation to the need that is, and thus we get a debate that we should have in our opinion ahead of us. From Buskerud I have a good example of such an emergency solution. There, a new high school was built in Drammen. It was not built by State Building, but by Entra Eiendom – 100 pst. State-owned. It led to high rents, but a rent that was within the framework of the rule of action, while the investment was outside the rule of action, when Entra was a builder. Overall, for the public and the state, an expensive financing solution. For the Central Party, there is no ideological question about whether the State should borrow or use its own money. It's just a practical economic question: what's the cheapest thing to finance the job? The rule of action shall be helpful, not used as neoliberal ideology to have a state that invests little at its own expense. The great need for investment for, inter alia, road and rail in the future must, of course, be far more important for economic policy. The upcoming losses on our investment in foreign securities will reinforce the argument that the state is investing more in Norway, in order to improve the environment, spread housing and modern, competitive businesses. Our budgetary system must not stand in the way of sensible investment. That's to a large extent the situation today, which leads us to a discussion that we should be in addition to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2625	It's not the first time we've discussed OPS in Stortinget in the last year. At the latest in an interpellation on 23 March, from the representative Halleraker, it was a topic, and it is no surprise that I have not changed my position since then. In addition to this, let me say the following: What we're building on is the allocation regulation that the Storting itself has adopted. It was adopted on 26 May 2005, on a proposal from the Bondevik Government, and is based on two important principles: one is the principle of completeness and the other is the principle of cash. This means that it is important to have a comprehensive overview of government expenditure and liabilities. Another thing is that it is important to discuss economic priorities that there is transparency about budgeting and, of course, that there is also a basis for an overall choice between different good purposes on the expenditure side of the government budget and, to a large extent, on the income side. The second important prerequisite for economic policy is the rule of action. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in the Great Britain about its importance, because it provides predictability in the use of oil money, while building it up under the credibility of economic policy. This credibility is important, because the credibility of economic policy is high because it is predictable on the expenditure side, it will also affect other important parts of the economy, for example. interest and monetary policy and things that are generally good to have an overview of. Then there is no doubt that financing significant government expenditure outside the state budget is as the representative Lundtigen says: if you have a lot of money in the bank, you may not need to borrow to make important investments. Investing outside the State budget, or financing important investments outside the State budget, can thus undermine fiscal governance. And I also see that one motive for OPS can be to try to implement projects that are not prioritised in the ordinary budgetary procedure, that such projects are accelerated. That is also the reason for the proposal. But debt financing through a OPS system to achieve that, in my view, is not sensible. Earlier reference has been made to the evaluation of the OPS projects that have been carried out, and it may be an argument to speed up the implementation of projects. But I also think there are other possibilities that, at least from my point of view, are important to implement and look at. That is what I was involved in the previous article, in the previous case: operating and maintenance contracts, rational progress in contracts, working with the entire tendering and contract system to ensure that important investment projects are implemented rationally and efficiently, to put important projects in their own budget lines and to have multiannual decisions to ensure that they are properly implemented, for example. heavy transport projects. The weakness, as pointed out by others, is that debt financing over time is becoming more expensive. One important aspect of this, which is worth dwelling on, is that those involved in such cooperation, often also get a monopoly on operation and maintenance, which in turn can lead to increased expenditure. Some projects in England are referred to in the proposal, and it is likely that in particular one project – i.e. the sub-base of London – is a bad project in this way. So my conclusion is that I think we're dealing with using the system we have today. But of course we're working to improve it. There I believe there are opportunities: new forms of contract, as I said, continuous development of road projects and railway projects, not least to look at the relationship between operation, maintenance and the development of the standard on roads and to work with it in contracts and tenders. I think there's a lot of opportunities to get good progress solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2647	There are many possibilities – OPS is one of them. But the progress on all of them is rather bleak, whether I have to be allowed to notice. That'll probably make us talk about OPS again. We need to be politically patient and persevering when we're dealing with a government that's resisting change. In commenting on this proposal, the Council of State states that investment in infrastructure must: ‘to be evaluated for other purposes which may contribute to increasing the country’s income and well-being’; In that assessment, government and state require 41⁄2 pst. the return on investment in the way, while the oil fund has only completed 21⁄2 pst over many years. returns. Why are there greater demands on the return on road construction in Norway than on the return on speculation abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2661	We're now going through what's going on about calculating so-called socio-economic profitability in major projects, so we're going to get back to that. Otherwise, I would also like to remind you that we are based on the rule of action that one over time should use 4 pst. of the balance of the Pension Fund into the annual government budget, and it is important to keep it in that context. So that's also how I pointed out in my previous post, that there are many things that help to increase value creation in Norway in the future. Having efficient infrastructure is one of them. But investing in the workforce is, in my view, the most important thing we can do in the future. Here, the government, in the same way that we are also doing much heavier than previous governments – also on the road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2670	It was good that the Council of State also found some support in Lundtigen's contributions, for the main reason that Lundtigen's contributions were a major attack on the budgetary system with which the Council of State itself started its contribution. I understand that this financing of projects is very central, because it is said that the state finances much cheaper. When the Council of State argues both in the letter to the Committee and in and of its own motion here, it appears as if the State is financing risk-free. The fact that private funding is more expensive has something to do with risk, and risks are not free of charge for the state either. We've seen that through a lot of projects where the cost excess is large. At the same time, quite a lot of new developments are taking place in this area also in Europe, so that you can get the best of two worlds. Why does the Council of State not see that it also undermines the whole resistance to OPS?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2679	As I have said, both in this case and in the previous one: it is important that the public of course works with tendering strategies, contract strategies, working to get the best possible use of the money – making the most effective use of the funds that you put in. It's after the ways I want to work, because I think it's a lot to pick up here. It's also true that if you have a lot of money in the bank, it's probably cheaper to spend the money you have, rather than borrowing, for loans to be both remunerated and repaid over time. I still believe that borrowing, in particular through private projects, is becoming more expensive over time. If one goes back to the example being drawn – that is, the maintenance project on the subsoil in London – it was just some of the criticism of the project that it became more expensive, among other things. not transparent and more expensive over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2684	I would like the Minister of Finance to be happy to develop new models within the public sector so that we can get longer projects and more effective progress. We're all interested in that. But there must be an obvious misunderstanding when you say that there is no need to finance the loan. This proposal was the coin of public projects in Norway and the establishment of a national strategy. We know that municipalities and county councils have to borrow – only the state is rich. Once again, I think it would have been very useful to get a full review of where and for what kind of project OPS is a current solution, and where it is not appropriate. It could also be a good guide for municipalities and county councils who are not as fortunate in it as the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2691	In fact, there is a connection between total public finances, i.e. both municipalities and county councils, which are significantly financed by transfers from the state budget. As I have also pointed out in the past, the State makes reasonable loans available to the local government in various areas, both for maintenance and investment. So I think we're trying to contribute as much as we can, including from the state, to the success of the municipalities. But I think it's important that we have a sensible approach to looking at how we use public money in different areas. Working for greater cost-effectiveness, as it is called, is an important issue for this government. I would also like to say – just to say it – that it is not that the government is allergic to private solutions. There are many examples of how we, in cooperation with private people, have solved important societal tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2698	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2703	The Right Party and the Advance Party have launched several subtle ways of financing transport. Now the OPS is the mantra. We have the most faith in increasing the appropriations we make to both invest and take care of what we have, for example. in the field of transport, is the best solution. So there's a lot of talk about this being modern, new solutions, that we're opponents of thinking new, of all modern things. The Transport Committee was in the United States on committee missions earlier this autumn and visited, among other things. Golden Gate, bridge in San Francisco. It was an OPS project in its time when it was built at the beginning of the last century. So the OPS solutions aren't necessarily just completely new, modern solutions, but there's something that has existed for a long time. When we say no to OPS, it's not necessarily about us being opponents of thinking new about organisation. There are many good things you can learn from the OPS projects – how to organise it as one project, as an example of Oslo-Ski, which we are now going to start and build. Had the project been set up in the same way that the Bondevik II government had offered to build Lysaker-Asker, as three sub-projects – which have later been met with a lot of criticism, because it takes longer, and it is more expensive when you split it into sub-projects – the project would have been more expensive and longer than it will be when we see the project in a whole. The experience of E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen, as the representative of Gundersen is sure to know, is that the project went quickly, and that it went as quickly as the corresponding OPS projects on E18 in South Africa. These are new forms of contract on which the Minister of Finance was involved. So the representative called for Gundersen to document his views on the borrowing burden in Europe. I can come up with that documentation, among other things. what the Minister of Finance of Sweden, Anders Borg, from the Right Sister Party, Moderaterna, has said about OPS – but this is my translation from Swedish to Norwegian, so you can take that reservation: If they want to invest in public infrastructure, that's good. If they want to lend us money at a significantly higher interest rate, it leads to more expensive infrastructure costs. That would be crazy. I don't believe in manipulating budgets," said Anders Borg in 2008. We in the Workers' Party have learned from the mistakes Tony Blair made in England. Maybe the Right should listen to its sister party in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2720	It is simply not possible to compare the financial assumptions in Sweden and the economic assumptions in Norway. We had that debate last week, so I'm not taking it up again. But it was the case rapporteur who said that transport investments are historically high. Yes, you're asked in what perspective. This is because they are historically low – they have never been so small in relation to the total state budget. Yeah, that's where the dog is actually buried. We need to find solutions that make us comply with the rule of action to a much greater extent and get a greater share of infrastructure. This by OPS we mean is one grep. But of course, we're not one-eyed just on the OPS. We are open to project funding, which we have participated in several times before – that was the way we built the Gardermo, for example. So we welcome the NHO nuance to try to get the government parties. That's very good. In addition, the rapporteur also knows that the Right has promoted a transport plan with 23 points for proposals for modernisation. The fact that we call it modernisation is simply because the old colleagues of the Minister of Finance in his note called today's transport solutions old-fashioned. Then we thought it was good to use the counter concept, namely modernisation. I think that's good. So the rapporteur says that there is no evidence that there is a lower cost of the OPS projects that have been evaluated. That's right, it's in the report. But that's true of government finances. But in a society where we're responsible for the whole thing, we have to look at who it's going to be cheaper for. Then it wouldn't surprise me if it was a lot cheaper for business, a lot cheaper for many, for most people, who get to and fro faster, and not least in view of the total cost to society, by getting a lower share of serious accidents that also significantly burden the state budget. That kind of thing has to be taken into account. When we say that this government has done nothing material, I think we have our words left. So they have not made a single reform in the six budgets submitted in this sector. So a little bit about debt financing. In my opinion, debt financing is not just about what the Minister of Finance says. It's about alternative returns on capital. Then it's not like we're not doing debt financing in public investment in Norway. 50 pst. Of the ways in which our loans are financed — hospitals, schools, churches, county highways interest-reimbursement schemes, Avinor has its own lending framework — that is the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2733	I have never really understood the suspension of the right hand parts in the OPS solutions. If there's some experience that's taught us, it's that this is the most expensive way to finance infrastructure investment, because of course there are some people who are going to make money on lending capital, just like you're going to make money on the implementation of the project and the maintenance of the project afterwards. There is no doubt that financing infrastructure investment directly above the State budget is much cheaper than borrowing capital. There's no doubt about it. However, when it is still relevant to use loan capital, as we are doing in full terms today – there is hardly a road project that is being carried out without the use of loan capital – it is of course because there are not enough appropriations directly above the annual government budgets, and the annual government budgets can be a hindrance to getting proper operation and implementation of the facilities. And is that what we've learned from the OPS project, that access to capital through the construction period is crucial for the implementation of the project and, of course, also for the costs of it. The OPS solution is primarily used by countries that do not have access to capital and need to obtain it from the outside. The situation in Norway is quite the opposite. We have capital, and we can borrow from ourselves, as a state, if we want it – which is what we do. I was the one who promoted at the National Labour Party meeting and was given a proposal for project funding. By doing so, we meant three forms of project financing. One of my followers is the Swedish system, where the National Debt Office actually lends money to state infrastructure projects. The second is what we have now implemented, what I would call proxy financing, that is. the completion of an installation over time over several budgets. And of course, the third is the OPS solution in which the civilians are hanged, but with which we have gained experience, and which thus becomes the most expensive. I appreciate the Minister of Finance's openness to untraditional ways of financing infrastructure investments in the future. That's a good promise. I think it's going to be necessary when we're going to throw in large and long railway facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2744	Just a few short notes. The opposition says that OPS is modern, offers competition and creativity. I'm not going to dispute it, but indirectly it sounds like traditional expansion projects don't. I think that sounds a little weird. How does the Right believe that expansion projects have been carried out and developed over the years, ever since public projects began to be built? Of course, the methods have been developed. You've had creative people who have been there and developed it, even before you started thinking about something called OPS. It sounds to the opposition as if the development and maintenance of roads and railways under the authority of today's public offices are taking place without the involvement of private contractors, without competition. We are accused of having a private allergy. That there are OPS projects where only the public is involved is not true. After all, we have a tendering regime that requires the public to publish all major expansion projects on tenders. The State does not have its own contractors, so it is private contractors and subcontractors who compete for the tenders. Research and development funds may be allocated to all projects. It is done and carried out in cooperation between the public builder and the private contractor. So there's a lot of creative going on in today's expansion regime. The Red-Green Government has a dogmatic attitude to OPS, says the opposition. That is also a strange claim. It was the Stoltenberg I Government that launched the three OPS projects that have been tested and the Red-Green Government that has continued and evaluated these projects. When that evaluation shows that similar gains can be achieved in relation to the rapid project implementation and the combination of operations and maintenance as in the OPS projects by improving contract strategies in ordinary state budget appropriations and there are no gains in relation to the costs of OPS, we have concluded that we will, among other things. develop the contract strategy in day-to-day development strategy and protect some major projects with own project funding instead. The Ministry of Transport is now launching a new NTP, which will be presented in 2013. There are further assessments of both planning, funding and organisation. In addition, work has been started on new forms of contract combining exactly what is positive in the OPS projects, namely the operation, maintenance and development of the road standard. In addition, an assessment of current diet/benefit analyses has been started. It is working forward-looking and on-going with new modern solutions to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society in the future, as the proposers want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2755	The next speaker is the representative of Øyvind Halleraker. The President records that there is 1 minute speaking time on the screen, but Halleraker has not had the word twice and thus gets a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2759	Thank you for that, President. I thought I'd do it away in 1 minute, that's why I asked the word for a short comment. It was only an information that came from the rapporteur who had to be corrected, and it was the Stoltenberg I Government that initiated the three OPS projects. That's not right. That was the time when a majority in the Storting, who was also in the Center Party, made that decision, and the government had to do of course what the Stortinge decided on. I think this has been an interesting debate. In fact, I think there is reason to be optimistic with the background in some of the posts from the position. I also wanted to greet the finance minister because before I went up here today, I read the record from the interpellation debate we had, and the very last thing he said in his last post was that he wanted to see if it wasn't going to find new solutions, and that would be part of the arrangement at the next NTP. So I'm optimistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2768	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1984]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2784	This matter concerns proposals for changes to the appropriations under some chapters of the State budget programme area 10. To the majority of the amendments, the Committee has no comments and subscribes to the proposals made in the proposal. For Chapter 732, Regional Health Enterprises, new information on changed pension costs is available for both 2010 and 2011. The proposition explains the background for the changes. An overall committee notes that future pension costs will be lower when public service pensions are adapted to the pension reform in the light of new rules for the regulation of retirement pensions and the impact of living adjustments. First of all, the calculations are for the years 1953 and earlier. Based on a proposal from the Norwegian Accounting Foundation on how to calculate these conditions, for 2010 there will be a one-off effect with a reduction in the cost of pensions in the profit and loss accounts of regional health enterprises of EUR 9.25 billion. kr. A joint committee approves a total of 4.8 billion. kr of this amount is made available to strengthen the equity of enterprises in the light of a similar accumulated deficit from the period 2006 to 2008 as a result of additional pension costs. This implies a positive performance requirement for regional health enterprises of SEK 4.8 billion. kr in 2010. The theme of retirement is complicated, and most people don't want to be familiar with, for example. the difference between the booked pension cost and the paid-up pension contribution. It will therefore be a challenge to communicate in public space that health businesses have such a significant positive operating result for 2010. A Joint Committee also supports the proposal that the remaining cost reduction of 4.45 billion. a corresponding reduction in the basic allocation at the same time as the operational credit is drawn up. An overall committee is very pleased that it has been proposed to increase the free income of municipalities by 1 billion. kr in 2010 and that the scheme of investment grants for hospital and nursing homes is significantly increased. And the Committee agrees that the new improved investment grants should be granted retrospectively. The automatic free card system has been successful, and all residents are now reimbursed their expenses above the so-called ceiling 1. This has contributed to a cost increase of 17 pst. compared to 2009. The Committee supports the establishment of a 215.6 million appropriation for this item. kr, as proposed. The opposition parties have their own comments on some chapters and will explain them themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2803	I refer you to the rapporteur's excellent contributions, and I also address the proposals that the Right and others are promoting. I also understand that the Left has signalled that they support the two proposals that have been put into the Chamber. To the proposition: it is worth noting that the opposition does not support making changes to the cap. 718 item 70, nor does it support change in cape. 733 item 72 – and here comes a correction: item 72, not item 70, as it says in the setting – and in chapter. Heading 724. The opposition believes that the withdrawal that is taking place here is not a reasonable withdrawal, precisely because it supports drug-prevention work. There's a budget of $8 million. kr for this purpose. There's $9 million in appropriations. SEK for the purchase of places in training establishments, and there are appropriations of 2 million. development measures in the field of drugs and psychiatry. In the context of the 2011 budget review, the Committee has been consulted for a number of days, where many fine, voluntary organisations are consulted and present exciting projects for which they wish to support, and I believe that everyone who sits and listens to that kind of presentation understands that these are organisations that get very much left for the very small public crowns that they receive in the allocation. And I think most people who are listening to that hearing would think it would have been nice to have the extra million, it would have been nice to have the extra 500,000 dollars to give to that organization. So today, the majority of the population is going to decrease that type of funding by 8 million. DKr for drug-prevention work, 9 million. kr for training and 2 mill. development measures in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The only reason I can see that this is done is that the administration has not been able to deal with all the applications that have been made in this area, because there can be no shortage of projects. And is it so that there are some applications that have not been made, so this evening, the Storting has the opportunity to vote simply against these reductions, and the money will be transferred to 2011, as marked by these appropriations. I can promise that it will take a very short time to make sure that there will be good projects that want this money, and I am sure that there are some of the money Stortinget grants, for which one had received the most – both in drug prevention areas, in the training and development of drugs and psychiatry. Then two proposals have been made in the Chamber dealing with the subject on which the rapporteur is concerned with pension expenditure. And I have to join the case rapporteur when he says that this is a complicated area, so I'm not going to try to explain it in a better way than the rapporteur did. But what is the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, and as I understand it, including the Left's, concern in this matter, is that the proposition only explains the situation of the publicly owned enterprises, but does not give any guidance on how the private partners should be treated in this area. That's the big concern. Many of the private partners in this area have found that they have incurred pension expenditure in the same way as public enterprises in the period 2006-2008, which have not been compensated and thus had a significant impact on their equity situation. Therefore, it would be very good if we could now politically clarify that these were now treated in the same way as public enterprises for 2010. And then the proposition also says something that makes sense: since one does not know the final figures for 2011, one will come back to the revised national budget on the question of adjusting the pension costs of public enterprises for 2011. The opposition believes that it should also do so in the case of private operators, because there is a great deal of uncertainty in them too in relation to the situation for 2011. I see that the Council of State has asked for the floor, and I hope that we may be able to get some answers to those questions already tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2820	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2823	The rapporteur presented well the changes in pension costs for the current year and, in fact, the uncertainty for 2011. To the representative, Höie, I just want to say that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has communicated to the regional health companies that it is assumed that these deal with the private institutions in line with the agreements concluded and that they seek the uniform treatment of private institutions in cases where it is natural. It is also the case that regional health enterprises are aware that we have stated in letters to private actors that these will be handled as much as possible in the same way as public health enterprises in the case of pension costs. So the intention of the proposal promoted by the representative Höie – the first of the proposals – is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2832	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1984]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e2840	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e3189	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure that 100 million. NOK 400 million of the reduced allocation. crowns under cap. 1833 CO2 management is transferred to cap. Item 1825, item 70 Household electricity saving grants.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e3945	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee on I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e3956	It is then voted on the Committee's position on II. The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e3974	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Torstein Rudihagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 1 is included on page 3 of the vote, proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is regularly asking for the promotion of a state of the state of energy by the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which deals with expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies, strategies for investing in the development of new energy sources and the status of Norwegian international energy obligations.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4000	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:147 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4013	Proposal No. 2, which has now been adopted, will be replaced by the proposal for a decision which will therefore lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4021	During the debate, Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting to make a support scheme for energy efficiency measures technology neutral.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4052	During the debate, Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a case on a comprehensive plan for CO2 management in Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4085	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate, no. 1-3 from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a technology development programme to deal with leakages in deep water, where the industry provides with all the necessary resources. Requirements for participation in the programme in order to operate on a Norwegian base shall be introduced.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a selection to identify the necessary changes to the conditions for operating petroleum activity on a Norwegian base in the light of the experience gained from the Deepwater Horizon. The selection shall deliver its fix at the latest in the autumn of 2011.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an obliging oil protection plan along the coast, which takes into account the emission dimensions following the Deepwater Horizon’;» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4124	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1 is included on page 2 of the vote, proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Energy Act, including the associated regulations and guidelines that allow for increased use of earth or sea cables in the construction of power lines in valuable natural landscapes to better address environmental concerns.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4150	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the commitment to research and development work related to the use of earth and sea cables.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4181	There was a proposal included in the vote on this issue, but the proposal has now been drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4202	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 3, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to the Stortinget for the acquisition of the public sector maintenance kit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4229	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the issue of OPS financing, project financing and alternative organisation of development projects in order to ensure a more efficient, predictable and rational implementation of the maintenance and development project.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4248	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:169 S [[2009-2010]] The President expects the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4270	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. The President notes that the Christian People's Party has fallen out of office as the proposer in the overview of minority proposals. The proposals, Nos. 1 and 2 are then represented by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a wide-ranging review of national and international experience in the use of public-private cooperation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a strategy to extend the use of public-private cooperation in both local and national projects.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e4308	During the debate Bent Höie has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The President drew attention to the fact that, after the debate had ended, Bent Höie had asked that proposal No. 1 shall be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is recommended to ensure that non-profit institutions and other private institutions are treated in the same way as regional health enterprises in terms of the possibility of retaining a share of the grant of pension costs for 2010.’» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit a proposal on how regional health companies will handle increased pension costs in 2011 for private operators with whom they have contracts, so as not to weaken the operational base of the institutions.’;» The left has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5553	Votes are made over I, II and III, with the exception of cap. 718, 733 and 734 heading 72.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5564	It's supposed to be over the hood. 718, 733 and 734 heading 72. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against. That also applies to the left? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5578	The president hears from the sideline that one of the other presidents believes that it is a matter that has actually not been dealt with today, that has now been up to voting. So that means there's one thing that might have been skipped on today's map earlier. Line Henriette Heimdal, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5581	In Case No. 4 states that we've discussed the state of the kingdom's energy. It is true that it has been dealt with by the Committee on Energy and the Environment today, but the documents on which it is based. 4, is a matter of protecting watercourses. So the setting and the papers we were dealing with are not the case that we voted on. My group thus got the wrong vote indication.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5586	The President believes that she will propose that we cancel voting on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Can the congregation agree? Mr Solvik-Olsen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5591	President! It's just the heading that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5596	The representative, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, believes that it is only the title of the matter that is wrong. The President has been made aware of the existence of a correct position with the correct heading. As far as the President can register, we have voted on the right issues. Everything should then be under control, and we can go to case no. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-16.ana.ud2534e5610	There is no record. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
