ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e104	The representative, Frank Bakke Jensen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e107	On behalf of the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the ownership and power of the fishing industry. And on behalf of the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I am delighted to make another proposal, which concerns the quota year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e128	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e137	As rapporteur, I would like to review the Committee's position, and I would also like to say a little bit about what the Christian People's Party is particularly concerned about in this context. During the examination of the 2010 budget, the Stortinget decided to grant more fathers the right to take out a feathering quota by eliminating the requirement that their mother must have worked at least half the position during the performance period. This proposal contains the necessary legislative amendments for the implementation of the budget decision and a single committee supports it. The reason why we want to give more fathers the opportunity to take out the birth rate or parental leave is that we believe there is a need to support a development in which father's care potential is exploited to a greater extent than today. Children need to be in touch with both mother and father, and this is not least the first year of life. The majority believe that more and better contact between father and child is positive for the child — for father himself, for mother and for the family as a whole. This change will give about 1,500 more fathers the right to a feather quota. Once that change has been implemented, there will be about 6 500 fathers who do not have the right to take parental leave because of the lack of professional activity of their mother. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that even after this change, several fathers should be entitled to take out parental leave. The Christian People's Party, together with the Advancement Party and the Right, is therefore promoting a proposal asking the government to file a case in which those about 6 500 fathers who still do not have the right to take parental leave because of their mother's lack of work will have the opportunity to withdraw the parental leave. For a long time, good cross-political work has been done to stimulate a development in which men take more responsibility for their young than before. Although political decisions are not alone in driving such developments, it is clear that policy in this area has also had its significance. The family quota has played a very important role here. The proposal to remove the parental quota will undoubtedly be a step backwards for equality and for this important work, not least for the young, precisely because we have not yet reached the stage of full freedom of choice in this area. Employers have different attitudes to leave for women and men respectively. For this reason, the spring quota remains a good instrument, and will continue for many years to come, in order to ensure freedom of choice for parents. It also recently adopted amendments to the Children’s Act, such as: means that, if there are specific reasons, the right can decide that the child should remain permanently with both parents. The government here proposes updates to the Children’s Rights Act and the Cash Support Act as a result of the proposal that shared residence should also be subject to judicial review. A Joint Committee supports the proposal for amendments to the Child Protection Act. With regard to the proposal to amend the Cash Support Act, the entire Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, agrees that there is no need to amend the Cash Support Act at this point. The size of the population, in the context of the treatment of the Children’s Act, led to the practice of access to shared residence. An important and clear reservation – and delimitation – on the part of the Storting was that access should be tighter, that there should be specific reasons and that, as a general rule, access should not be used for children under seven years of age. Therefore, as the Stortinget’s decision on the second paragraph of Section 36 of the Children’s Act is understood, the majority consider that it is not appropriate to amend the Cash Support Act. Now and then there are discussions in this room about the action room in Stortingen to change the government's proposal. With the leadership laid by the Children's Act, it may be said that this was a somewhat hypothetical problem, but nevertheless an important signal when the Storting thus marks what the general rule of seven years is to be. I am therefore pleased that the majority, with the government parties, have agreed to adjust the arrangement of the government in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e156	By the law decision we take in Stortinget today, 1,500 more fathers from July will be able to take out the paper issue. This is done by reducing the mother's salary requirement before leave from half a post to 1G. In this way, the Storting now helps step by step that more and more fathers get their own earned rights. Last year we gave fathers in families where mother went to work redundancy payments, opportunities for her own earned rights. Now we're expanding further. The goal is that through this step-by-step policy, we will eventually end up with our own earned rights for all fathers. However, the parent allowance and own acquired rights are linked, because the fathers who do not have their own acquired rights are entitled to parental leave, but not to the parental allowance. But both for fathers who have their own vested rights and for those who do not, there is an activity obligation related to the rest of the parental leave. Ergo is closely related to the family allowance and own acquired rights. So now, when the Right has proposed removing the feather quota and focusing on its own earned rights, removing the focus from what really is the big problem -- removing the feather quota. It's a fact that there's nothing of itself. There is clear evidence of the introduction of the spring quota in 1993 because before the introduction of the spring quota, it was only 3 pst. by the children who were born, who had a father who was at home. So of the kids who were born in 1992, only had 3 pst. a father who was at home on parental leave. Three years later – in 1995, 1996 – it was 70 p.m. of the dads who were on leave. Thus, the parental ratio caused men to be at home and to take out parental leave; it has helped to change the role of fathers in Norway significantly. In these days, the first fathers may take out ten weeks of parental leave. It's four weeks more than just six months ago. From just 17 pst. So in the next year, we'll see that the majority of fathers take out ten weeks. That is a consequence of the extension of the spring quota from six to ten weeks from 1 July 2009. You can ask yourself, are there going to be more fathers taking out the paper issue, or are there going to be fewer fathers taking out the paper issue if you take out the birth quota? The answer is quite obvious. It's pretty naive of both the Right Party and the Advance Party to think that if you remove the father's quota, the fathers will still have the opportunity to take leave. There are some reasons and expectations in our society that clearly show that attitudes are not as simple in terms of fathers as one would believe. There are expectations from employers, a still strong traditional gender role model, and the fact that many women still want to have most of the leave sea – in the belief that it is hers. The extent to which this right-wing freedom of choice exists for the families, I am therefore most uncertain about – precisely because there are so many external circumstances that affect parental leave. I therefore agree with Right Jan Tore Sanner, who said to the evening post during the national meeting to the Right, that the freedom of choice of the families will be reduced by removing the family quota. It is a fact and a point that while the other parties – the Christian People's Party and the Red-Greens – are engaged in giving their fathers more time together with their kids, the Right Party and the Advance Party thus pursue a policy in which they actually contribute to less time for fathers with their children. The Equal Pay Commission shows that the extension of parental leave is important for equal pay. Evidence is provided that the pay gap between women and men arises when families have children. Mom's working part-time, and Dad's working overtime. Men rage from women on the payroll path. To believe that we have come so far that the family will make an equivalent distribution of the parental premium, we believe is naive of the Right and Advance Party. It is a conscious family policy that has led fathers to take a greater share of responsibility at home, and mind-building work through legislation makes fathers now take different choices than before. In order for mothers to give up, and for fathers to make such choices, we need to make arrangements. That's why we don't want to remove the feather quota, we actually want to make sure that fathers get even more time with their kids in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e167	This case, as both the case rapporteur and the previous speaker said, has come because of changes made to the State budget and because of the matter we had, which concerned changes to the Children's Act. We can have a debate here today on father's quotas and not father's quotas, on self-employment or not on self-employment. So the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, put it up in this case. First of all, I want to congratulate Right on the decision they made at their national meeting. In contrast to previous speeches, both the Advance Party and the Right have faith in the family, and faith in father. It seems like the government parties with several people are saying that we just have to have laws and rules, because otherwise Dad wouldn't have taken out the quota. I believe that the modern father today will be with his kids, and believe that the distribution of leave must take place around the kitchen table, not here in this room. Removing the father quota does not mean that equality goes back, that is not to say that father takes less, but that means that the family gets more freedom and more self-confidence over their weeks. When the opponents say that no, we can't eliminate the birth rate because society isn't ready for such freedom, then it goes without saying that this falls on its own unfairness. The important thing about leave in this case is the right to self-employment. The government has now submitted a case in which they show that they are on the right track, but the government has not taken on board the fact that Dad has to have an independent right of use to get this done. Because we all know that after all, very much depends on the economy when the family is going to distribute these weeks. You also have to think about what's best for the child. Today, if for some reason the father does not have the opportunity to take out the ten weeks that the government has spent, the mother does not take over the weeks, and it affects the child, who is not allowed to have one of the parents at home. Therefore, at least the Progress Party believes that the most important thing here is that the family is given the right to self-determination over the weeks they are going to have leave, and I am glad that we can get a majority for it together with the Right sometime in the future. We are now discussing two issues, and the two issues are a little interrelated. At first we are very concerned that father should be at home with the child as much as possible, especially in the first year of life. But then we discuss a matter that goes on that there will be a break in the happy marriage or togetherness, and father and mother move away from each other. Then one is not interested in sharing, in that it should be equal, or in that father should have his or her share of the relationship with the child. Then it is a pleasure for me, on behalf of the Progress Party – and the government – to be allowed to promote the proposal that the Progress Party is making today, that there should be a sharing of the cash support. It's only the government and the Progress Party that's agreed on in this room, and it was a little fun to say that. The Progress Party believes that when there is a break in life, care shall be automatically shared. Then we think you can avoid some conflicts. When you have automatically shared care, you must also be able to share both cash support and child welfare. As the government in the amendments to the Children’s Act stated that, in some cases, the courts can judge shared care, it is a step in the right direction, but not as far as the Progress Party will go. That is why we have received a change in the law today that concerns changes in the Child Protection Act. But I find it sad that the government parties do not support their own government, and that the Right and Christian People's Party does not participate in a sharing of the cash support when care is shared. With that, I will address the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted and helped to promote in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e182	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e185	After hearing the previous speeches and the debate here in the Chamber, I almost got a feeling that the Right National Meeting was not over. I am very pleased that the Storting follows closely the debates at the parties' national meetings, and I am pleased that debates and decisions taken at the Right National Meeting also create involvement in this Chamber. Now it is not the case that we have to deal with today, is one for or against the family quota. I want to make it clear that from the right, there is no doubt that we believe that the father's quota has been very important. The birth rate has been necessary precisely for a father to have the opportunity to be at home with his newborn child. We know that this is the first year the strong ties are connected between the parents and the children, and we don't want to miss that opportunity. The father rate has also been important in relation to the attitudes of employers. There is now a expectation from many teams that father will be at home, and good employers understand that if you are to have happy employees, they must also be happy at home with their family. There are high expectations for different employers. Nevertheless, we see that today’s parental leave system is very rigid, very bureaucratic – it is a little flexible, and it takes little into account that all Norwegian families are different with different needs. Therefore, the Right believes it is very important that we review the entire parental leave scheme – making the system simpler, making it more flexible and giving more opportunities to parents. We in the family committee are often told that people have difficulty dealing with Nav, that the system is hard to understand. I took a little test on it myself. I have several times recently called Nav and asked detailed questions about parental leave. They're very hard to answer. It's not opposition from Nav's side – not at all – but it underscores the point, that the system is terribly difficult to understand. There has been a major change in parental withdrawals from parental leave in recent years. I think we'll still see that several fathers are going to be at home, regardless of their father's quota. But it's not a yes or no to the father quota we're discussing today. The size will have ample opportunity to discuss it. We have a proposal that is on the table, with the rapporteur's first observations coming beyond the day. I look forward to a very exciting debate in Stortinget when we are going to deal with the quota itself. I want to say that I am happy that the government is adding up that 1,500 fathers are now going to have the right to withdraw the feather quota. And I'm very happy that the government is now helping to give several fathers the right to self-sufficiency, even though, unfortunately, they are voting against the proposal that 6,500 fathers should have this opportunity. For the Right, it's very important that we treat mother and father as caregivers. It's important that dad get the same rights and the same opportunities as mother. There we have a way to go. That is why I am a little surprised why the government said no in this case that the 6,500 fathers who do not have the right to withdraw the family allowance today should have the opportunity to do so. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is working with the Advancement Party and the Right in this matter, and I just want to give Dad and Mom equal opportunities in taking out parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e202	The birth rate is a success story. The more we increase the father's quota, the more leave takes father, and the more fathers take out more than the time they need. With the government's proposal, we ensure that several fathers are granted the right of withdrawal, and as the representative Gjul pointed out in his statement, this is closely linked. Now we're changing the legislation so that fathers get the right to take the paper issue even though the mothers have only had part-time jobs. Children need to get acquainted with both their parents, and parents need time to be with the children. Strengthened father rights help children to connect equally to both parents. It gives a more like-minded parenting. When mother and father share parental leave, they also often share care after the leave is over. That's good for the parents, and that's good for the kids. Today, women serve consistently less than men. Women’s annual income in 2007 was only 64 pst. of the man’s annual income. I've said it before from this pulpit, and I'm going to repeat it until the women's annual income comes to the level of men: having their own money and being able to support themselves is the key to women's liberation. We never get an equal society if women are to earn so much less systematically than men. Although equal pay is a big and complex issue, for many reasons, it does not mean that we do not know the causes of the different wages. On the contrary, we know a lot about what's going on. We know that there are women who take the most responsibility for houses, homes and children. We know that this bias attaches itself to a pattern that is set when the child is born. We know that it is when women have children, they lag behind in the wage struggle. And we know that it helps with measures that make Dad more at home. That is the question of whether we should implement such measures. That's what SV has been working for for for years. This proposal is an example of actions that go in the right direction. The right, which was formerly involved in the introduction of the spring quota, has now abandoned equality policy in favour of the rhetoric of the 1950s family policy and the government flotation of the Progress Party – a party that has never been for equality. Furthermore, it is positive that the Right Party and the Advance Party promise independent earnings rights as an important matter. But it is sad that at the same time, through their national meetings, they will in practice deprive many fathers of the opportunity to take out leave. It is also timely to recall that none of the above-mentioned batches had put out money for self-sufficiency in their alternative budgets. As of 1 July, 1,500 more dads will have the opportunity to take leave. The opposition talks, the red-green trades. With the government's goal of extending the father's quota to 14 weeks, we are taking important steps towards equality for women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e217	The center party is busy with the family, and we're concerned that we're going to have an equal parent, where both mother and father take on the responsibility of having kids. In order for a young person to be in good contact with both mother and father, it is important that the possibility of bonding in the first year is present. The primary thing is, of course, that we should have good and strong families, but this will also have an effect in other areas. When Dad takes more responsibility for the kids, we avoid the biased division of responsibilities that we see today, where mother assumes this responsibility mainly, which in turn affects wages, working conditions and rights later in life. In the context of the treatment of the 2010 State Budget, it was decided that several fathers should be entitled to a federal quota. It was done that the requirement that mother must have worked in at least half of the working hours in order to obtain the right to a family allowance falls away. The Advance Party and the Right are talking about freedom of choice for families. Families have a lot of freedom of choice today. Most of the leave you can actually sit around the kitchen table and discuss how to share. There are flexible arrangements with, for example: Time account. It is not that Father must take out his part of parental leave for a specified period of time. So families have a great opportunity to sit around the kitchen table and discuss how they want to spend their lives for their family. But in most cases this doesn't happen. That is why the proposal adopted by the Right at its national meeting, namely the removal of the parental quota, will not be a proposal that relates to the realities and the society we actually see today. Although we still have a part that needs to be done before we can say that our parental pension scheme is an equal and transparent system, this is definitely a step in the right direction. The government is working on a work that will have a major impact on families, and the work will hopefully give us a better, more transparent and more flexible system. With regard to the proposal for a change to the Children’s Rights Act and the Cash Support Act to adapt the Storting’s decision on changes to the Children’s Act, I refer to the comments, which are based on the assumption that the amendments to the Child’s Rights Act are sufficient adaptation and therefore it is not appropriate to amend the Cash Support Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e232	The majority today has a proposal to deal with which several fathers are entitled to a father's quota. The requirement that mother must have worked for at least 50 pst. the position during the performance period falls away and there will be a spring quota in all cases where both mother and father have earned the right to parental leave. I'm, and there's no secret, a hot follower of the father's quota, and I'm very happy that about 1,500 more fathers now get the opportunity to be home and take care of their children when they're very young. The debate that we have seen in the last few days shows that there are major political disagreements about what is good for children and parents. It has become clearer, following the Right’s decision to remove the spring quota, that the fronts of the equality policy have been strengthened and that they are moving on essential points between the left and the centre parties on the one hand, who want to continue to expand the Norwegian gender equality project, and the Right and the Progress Party, which seem to have gone too far. This government is concerned that several fathers are taking leave. We are sure that the spring quota will contribute to that. The scheme meant a small revolution when it was introduced in 1993. Without the spring quota, we would not have had the positive development we've had in terms of fathers' leave withdrawals. The Progress Party believes that the spring quota should be removed, and now the National Right-wing Assembly has adopted the same. When we are discussing the issue of a father's quota here today, it is very closely related to what is the theme of this debate, namely how to guarantee the right of withdrawal for more fathers. The work to ensure the right of withdrawal makes little sense to those fathers who will lose the possibility of taking leave if the spring quota is removed. Unfortunately, this is still the case with our working life. Too many men meet employers — and sometimes partners and women — who are not positive that men should take out as much leave as we put up today. Therefore, the removal of the parental quota will be a dramatic step backwards for an equal parenthood and for equal opportunities in working life. This is not because Norwegian fathers do not want to take care of them, but because experience from both Norway and other countries — such as Norway. Denmark, where there is no parental quota and where there are far lower numbers for fathers’ withdrawals from parental leave than Norway, shows that father’s withdrawals largely follow the length of the parental quota. Our working life has simply not come so far that it is possible to achieve this without the quota. There I also agree with Right Jan Tore Sanner, who said at the national meeting this weekend that it was too early to remove the father's quota. I believe that the quota is not an objective in itself, it is the results that are an objective, but as long as the quota is necessary to secure rights to father, we need it. Father taking parental leave means early contact with the child and taking part in baby care. What we also see more and more evidence of is the close relationship between this and the work for equal pay. A new Swedish survey shows that mom makes more money when dad takes long leave. The context is spectacularly strong. The share of the father and the right of withdrawal for several men both helps to lay the foundations for equal parenthood and to increase equality in the labour market. Although we now close a gap in the legislation and give 1500 new fathers the right to a spring quota, there are still an estimated 6,500 self-earning fathers who cannot take out parental pennies. Thus, fathers have an independent right to profit, but due to the activity requirement, pre- and post-natal adjustments by their mother may block father’s right of withdrawal. It's obvious that we're not in the process of securing fathers' rights of exit. It's e.g. so that many men contact me and feel it is unfair that they are not given the opportunity to take leave because their mother is illegitimate. I agree, and it's an important goal to do something about it. But this government has systematically extended the rights of fathers in recent years, both in the form of weeks and in the form of rights of withdrawal for new groups. I am very determined to continue that work. That is why the government has also said that we should carry out a review and come to Stortinget with proposals for a more equal and simpler parental pension scheme. I'm going to do that. The red-green government will continue to work to give more fathers the opportunity to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e251	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e255	I'm not going to ask the Council of State what he thinks about the father's quota, because I think I know that, and we'll probably get that debated several times. I want to address a topic that concerns changes to the Cash Support Act. The government has submitted a proposal to the Stortinget that if there is a divided residence between two parents, they can also share the cash support. It has not been supported by the Council of State from its own government parties here in this Chamber. It is the Progress Party which is promoting a proposal on what the government is proposing. My question to the Council of State is what he thinks about this, and what he will do to ensure that parents who have been shared care can also share the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e264	I take note that the majority of the committee does not want to change the Cash Support Act, and that is quite out of date. My agenda for this is exactly the same as the majority in this Chamber, that we have given a very narrow access to judge divided residence. The Ministry said in the bill that the conviction of a divided residence is not assumed to be valid for children under seven years of age. That's the intention we've had with this. We know that the Progress Party has a different policy in terms of dedicating divided residence, a starting point which, in my opinion, is based more on a parent than on a child's perspective. My view of it is different. The Ministry’s promotion of this was, among other things: because we know that for some adoptive children there can be cash support until the child reaches school age. But our intention behind this is the same as what has previously been approved in the Chamber, and I have no problem with the position that exists from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e273	I understand that there are slightly divided opinions about what the government itself puts in what is in Soria Moria about self-employment. I understand that some government councils may believe that all fathers should have the right to profit, that all fathers should have the right to a father's allowance, based on their income and their professional activity, and that that is why the government parties today are voting against the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party on the approximately 6,500 fathers who still do not have the right to take out custody. Can the State Council clarify to the Storting what is really in Soria Moria? Is it the case – as some government councillors may have been – that the lack of activity of a mother should lead to a father not having the right to take out a family allowance, or should all fathers have the right to self-employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e280	There has been a broad consensus in the past, including: When this was discussed in several rounds in the 1990s, it was a goal to avoid so-called double care, i.e. situations where both mother and father were at home on the public account of the children. Today, I believe that debate is slow, but certainly changing. There are more and more people who want us to pay more attention to the possibility of several fathers being at home. That is also the government's policy. How far we're going to go with that is the Stortinge answer when we present the conclusions we draw, after the review of the system that we've promised to do, but where the goal is both a more equal and a simpler system. I have a very good conscience for what the government has done in this area, because unlike in the period of bourgeois rule, fathers' rights in this group have also been systematically extended – at the latest today, with the 1,500 new fathers being granted the right of withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e287	I believe that the Council of State will have to go through the 2001-2005 downturn and the Bondevik II Board of Governors' scrolls once more on strengthening fathers' rights and father's quota. But that was not what I was asking. In that case he will come to another conclusion when he does. He mentions that there has been a goal of avoiding double care. Therefore, we have an activity requirement for mother, which must be met in order for father to have parental leave. As a result, some fathers remain after the decision taken today. Since the Council of State would not respond to the previous replicant, I would turn it around and ask in another way: is it reasonable that the activity requirement only applies to one way – that it is not applied to father, if it is father who is initially at home, and mother wants to take out parental leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e296	There might be a lot of ways to make a more equal arrangement. It is obvious that the activity requirement needs to be debated. But there is a debate about whether it is right to have an activity requirement both ways, whether it is right to have an activity requirement at all, or whether it would be right to say that some groups that do not currently have rights should get it. There might be different models, and I think there'll be different views of this, also in the different parts here on the Stortinget. The government is now making such a review, precisely to balance the different considerations against each other and will come to the Storing with proposals related to it. My clear goal is for more fathers to have rights. The situation we have in the case of fathers who don't get the opportunity to take parental leave because mom's unhappy, is a very good example of something we should improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e303	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e308	Today's legislation on the payment of parental leave makes the family dependent on mother's earnings, and is thus a discriminatory law. All people shall initially be able to process their own rights through their own tasks. Where both parents wish to withdraw parental leave, it is desirable that the professional activity of both parents be taken into account. I want to focus on another small group. They are not many, and they do not have significant budgetary implications. I have a case from the newspaper where a family stands up, where mother is dissatisfied because of a traffic accident, and then it's not cardboard for everyone in such cases. On the contrary, it is not possible for father to take paper because mother does not have the ability to process her own rights. Because his mother has not worked up this right, his father is therefore discriminated against because his wife is illegitimate. The Council of State stated that something had to be done here. As this is a narrow, small group, I believe that one should have caught up with this matter, without having had such great economic consequences. What must the family do in order not to be discriminated against? Discrimination against the family means refusing to give children the full attention of their father for a period of time. Punishing a family because of the circumstances makes it even more tragic, especially when mother is as unfit as she is. This can't possibly be the intention of the law. It is a value in itself to ensure that both father and mother get their share of the time with the child, and that all in this room agree. Why can't you do anything for this group, for example. by withdrawal of parental pastures. An increasingly even distribution of parental exit between mother and father is a joyous development supported by all. Mother and father's right to parental leave, as well as the introduction of self-employment rights, are important. There are many fathers who want to get together with their children but are prevented because their mother is not active or has a place for public education. I hope the Council of State will come back quickly with this challenge. For me, and for an optimal family life – as I see it – it is important that a family can plan to make their own choices, according to their own needs. It has at least worked for me, and I think it can work for many others – without state intervention and detailed governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e321	I take the floor, first of all, to clarify that there is an error in the committee's recommendation in the vote. The law, which provides for a framework for the laws proposed by the Committee, states ‘the law on public security, the Cash Support Act and the Child Protection Act’. But there should not be a "cash support law" in the setting. That word should be deleted. Then I also take the word to comment on what has been said regarding freedom of choice and father's quota. In fact, freedom of choice requires that the framework conditions for the choice to be made are such that you have the option to choose what you want. The framework conditions can simply be illustrated by the situation picture we see every day in various Norwegian jobs: A female worker comes to his boss and informs him that she is pregnant, whereupon the manager smiles and says: so nice and congratulations. Then you immediately see that the eyes begin to wander around in his head, and then he begins to think through how to do this now, we probably need a year of vicariate next year. Then there's a male worker who comes to the same boss and tells us the same thing, that we're expecting children. Congratulations, then pleasantly, the manager likes to say, and thinks that now we continue as before. Maybe there'll be a few weeks' paper in a year, and hopefully he'll take it in connection with the summer vacation when there's a little quiet in the company, and there's no big consequences. This is the everyday life in Norwegian workplaces. There are attitudes of female and male workers, respectively. Therefore, the framework conditions for a completely free choice of the distribution of leave are not laid down at the outset. That's why the spring ratio is a positive stimulus, which makes it easier for a lot of men to choose exactly what you want: to take out a part of the leave. Some will take a long part, and some will take a smaller part based on the family situation, but it facilitates that more men can take out a part of the leave that you actually want. It is a good and important card to keep in mind when meeting the employer with a claim for that leave. This means that defending the feather quota is an instrument of increased freedom of choice. It is an instrument for increasing equality, and it is an instrument for improving family policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e336	We have then noted that the rapporteur has made it clear that no one wants the 'cash aid law' as part of the vote, and that word will therefore be removed in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e339	There's been a great change in the last few years since the father's quota came, and we've got a new generation of men who want to take more responsibility for their children. I want to give honey to the Right who, a little dazzled by good measurements a day, dares to be so honest that you go in to remove the feather quota. It is positive because it strengthens the fronts of family policy, and people get a good and clear choice. It's a goal of the red-green government to strengthen father's rights. We need to further develop the maternity leave to get a more even distribution than what we have today. Today, women are losing on equal pay, intriguing jobs, pensions, and they are also being discriminated against in employment. Neither are men in today's society as caregivers. The more dramatic consequences of this can be seen in the breakup of life when you're distributing children, how close to 90 pst. is distributed for the benefit of mother. The community and we as big people have a great responsibility to facilitate a more even distribution of maternity leave, precisely to ensure better rights for women in the labour market. Men should have their important place at home, but above all, the children should have equal rights to mother and father. Then it's our responsibility to ensure an equal distribution of maternity leave. I believe that the Right and Advance Party's proposal to remove the feather quota will contribute to the mobilization of Norwegian men to the rightful place they are going to have in the home, and that women will have their rightful place in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e351	There is a much more important gender equality fight that has gone on in this area. I mean as a liberal, there's still a lot of work to be done in the equality field. I also believe that especially in the field we are talking about today, there is a lot of uncertainty about fathers' rights. Much of the legislation we have, the child law we have, clearly favors mother. We have a basic attitude in our law that favors mother. We have a basic attitude in the social welfare system that favors mother. This is a system created for a different time with different attitudes. In one of the most important equality struggles today, we talk about giving father the rights he really has right to. It's really about turning the law's thinking into a much more equivalent approach to parenthood. This is really about equality for men, men's right to be fathers. The struggle for the papacy issue is not the discussion about ruling in families, but it's actually the discussion about giving a minimum of rights to fathers in a couple relationship as well. All of us who are involved in many such discussions with friends and in company know that it's not that mothers give away easily what they perceive as their share. This is actually a handshake from us to give fathers an extra argument when this is to be distributed. Then it's like we in the Left every single year have put Dad's right to profit in our budgets in the last five years. We're very happy that we're moving on today. We will also vote in favour of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal that we should take this all the way out. It's about a basic approach that these are rights that you've built up. It's about a thought that fathers are just as important caregivers for children as mothers are. We should actually have had a complete review of our entire legislation and tried to sex wash our parental legislation, so that men and women had actually been treated equally. As far as this field is concerned, it's men's equality struggle that's really important to do, because it's those who've been bored for a very long time. Now we've raised generations of men who care about their father's role, but we haven't changed our law to allow them to care about their role.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e366	It was a pity that the previous speeches went out of the hall, for I had intended to give praise to the post that was just given. It is very good to hear such a message from the Left Party, and I join most of what was said. For obvious reasons, it is very rare that you get lumps in your throat when you hear a debate in the main hall. But today, I've almost known the tears to push – when I hear the Right and the Advance Party hail the father quota and how important it has actually been to develop the father role, develop society's view of how important it is that fathers are at home, when I hear Hofstad Helleland say something about how important that quota has been, when at the same time you know that the same party was skeptical of the introduction in its time and would postpone the whole introduction. It was to be investigated and investigated, and we can ask ourselves where we would have been today if they had been sitting in the driver's seat. There's also something strange in the rhetoric of the same batches that want to remove the quota, when on the one hand you celebrate how important both the introduction of it and the continuous expansion have been, and at the same time you want to remove it. I also got lumps in my throat when I heard Solveig Horne talking about the modern man who himself wants to be home. Yes, of course. Many men now want to be at home, including thanks to several years of parental quota that has changed both society and individual people's attitude to being at home and caring for their children. But it is not real freedom of choice today, nor would it be real freedom of choice for the family if you just removed the family quota – not at all. We know that many men lack independent rights. We know that many men will face challenges with employers. But we also know that most men earn more than women. It's a simple calculation for each family when you're going to sit at the kitchen table and figure it out: what can we do in terms of dividing the leave between us if the husband makes 200,000 more than the woman? It's also very beautiful to hear when it's talking about independent rights for men. But why not do something about it when you can? There's nothing in the history books about the Right's efforts when they've been in government, about providing independent income rights for men. Nor is there anything in the last state budget about proposals from either the Right Party or the Advance Party to guarantee independent income rights for fathers. This is just going to be empty rhetoric. It is enough to see what has happened in Denmark after they have conducted that policy. Developments have stagnated completely. There is also evidence of rigidity and bureaucratic perception. Well, I refer to today's headline in the newspaper, where a survey shows that an overwhelming majority of parents want to keep today's leave arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e377	Several have not asked for the floor, so the debate on the subject is no. 1 over. [[See page 3355]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e393	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e402	I will at the beginning of my article challenge the assembly to think through what it would have been like to experience that once in childhood you heard that the one you thought was your father, did not turn out to be your father anyway, or to grow up without knowing who the father figure is. When we discuss such types of proposals, I think it's important that the whole Storting reflect on what this is actually about for the people it's about, and not just dismiss proposals, for which one unfortunately has tradition in this room. What can we as a society do to help all mothers provide correct information about who is the right father? There may be many reasons why mothers choose not to tell about who is father, and also that they give a different father than the one who is the right one. It will also be presented in response letters from the Council of State and in comments from the majority of the Committee. But there are also examples that some people deliberately tell you about a wrong father figure. An example of that was heard from a kindergarten worker who one day felt that a four-year-old kindergarten child came to him and said, "You know what, my father is no longer my father." It's another one that's my dad. It's hard for us to understand what's going on in children and young adults when such things happen, and when what's the safe root of your life, is stirred up and you come in flight. That is why the Committee is also concerned that we need to do what we can to make sure that as much information as possible is provided correctly. This is reflected in, for example: EMK and Norwegian law that children have the right to know both who is their mother and who is their father, but still someone chooses to provide incorrect information. So the question is, what do we do with that? Well, today's mom has a duty to explain. She is summoned to the fund and informed of the legal effects of the identification of danger or not. So we think that mother already has an information obligation to provide information about her father. Nor do we consider it useful to intensify legislation in relation to it, for everyone knows that this is a matter of concern for the child's best interests and the need to know who the parents are. That is how far the Committee agrees. We also ask ‘the government to consider how to contribute to women choosing to provide correct information about their grandchildren and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way with an assessment of how the intentions of the proposal can be met’. Governments have also indicated the need for a review of these arrangements. So the committee shares the view of punishment. There may be many good reasons to be hard on those who deliberately provide incorrect information, such as: the matter of the four-year-old I talked about earlier in my article. But the question is, what are we going to do to introduce criminal law responses to these women? Well, at first it might be reasonable to think that punishment might be an easy way to go to push mothers to give the right answer. Even I could think that it might be a simple solution. And that's the problem: it's one too simple solution. It will not do anything about what is the basis for mothers to choose to provide incorrect information. It could be about assault. There may be many different reasons why mothers do not choose to provide the correct information. Then I don't think punishment is the way to go. We need to consider the question of how we can contribute to more mothers providing information in greater depth than is possible both with regard to this Document 8 and with regard to the debate here. That's why I'm glad we're going to get a case from the Council of State about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e417	It's not often I get lumps in the throat of hearing posts in this room, but it was touching to hear the statements by Mr. Arild Stokkan-Grandes here. I also know that he is engaged in this matter, so the case rapporteur should be grateful for the commitment he has shown in this matter. It is also gratifying for the proposers and the Progress Party to know that there is an overall committee – it is not often when we promote a Document 8 proposal – which has an involvement in the matter and which also sees the challenges this issue addresses. I hope the Council of State will take into account that there is an overall committee that wants the government to continue working on this issue. There has been a debate on this before, but it started well in connection with a matter of a father who after 32 years was told that his daughter he had believed was his daughter, not his daughter. This is a case that is not just about a single case, but there are many such cases out there. It's probably a larger scale than what the Storting is actually aware of. I don't think we've seen the last of this debate. There is a great mental impact for a father who comes up in such a situation, but not least for the child. It is the child's right to know who is the biological origin, which is important for the Progress Party in this matter. Too many children have an unknown father. I think there are 9 000-10,000 children in Norway who do not know who their father is. It's too large a number. It's important to be allowed to know who is biological origin. It can lead to mental problems if you do not know it, but it can also lead to other diseases. Let's say you're going to start a family. Then it turns out that one is the bearer of a hereditary disease. But the father you thought was the father is not the father, and one must then find out what disease you can be carrying. It could be a problem. Children have the right to know who is biological origin. That must be the main focus of this matter. There must be a requirement and an obligation to state the name of the paediatric patient. One looks at headlines that single mothers who give the child’s father in the birth certificate lose money in relation to mothers who do not give the father’s name and who get a completely different sum. So there's a lot of things about the legislation here in this country that don't match and that you have to do something with. It is a pity that the majority refuses to introduce a consequence of not giving the right father. Then I wonder why. In the proposal for the Progress Party and the Right, we ask that one should ‘estimate’ the consequences. Everyone knows that if you steal a chocolate in a store today, it'll have a consequence. But knowingly lying about who is the biological danger does not have any consequence at all. There's talk that we need to engage in a dialogue, and that we need to have better routines. Well, we've tried that. But why not also consider a consequence of this? The party of progress believes that it can be preventative. It will force Mother, because she sees that it actually has consequences if she deliberately lies about the granddaughter. There are many children, who have grown up, who have made contact after this debate has taken place in the newspapers, because they are unable to get Mother to identify who is a father. Then one might say that in some cases, in a few cases, there is a reason Mother won't give it up. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we as legislators have to focus on children's rights, children's right to know who are their parents. Then it is important that it also has a consequence for mothers who deliberately lie about who is the granddaughter. That is why I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in the matter, and the proposals on which the Progress Party is with the Right. I would also like to thank the rapporteur again for the work he has done. I hope the Council of State will take with it the recordings that have been made, in the further work on this important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e438	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e441	I will give tribute to the representative Solvency Horne for putting this important matter on the agenda. It deserves it to the greatest extent possible. It is an important matter for a lot of people, and in this case it is also true that in many cases today's law is very unfair. Under Norwegian law, women have an obligation to explain, even if a refusal to declare the identity of potential fathers in practice will not meet with criminal liability or cut welfare benefits. The right will stress that the explanation procedures should be improved, and we are pleased that the government is now looking at it. We think it is very good that the government should consider how to help more women choose to provide correct information on their child risk and that it is assessed how the intentions of this proposal can be met. Right agrees with the intentions of the proposal, but there are also a number of aspects of the proposal that should be considered in greater detail – not least to ask the Right, together with the Advance Party, the Government to assess the appropriateness of a criminal law consequence by deliberately failing to comply with the obligation to provide information on the child’s risk. I think that is important information that the Storting should be investigated, and that the Storting should be in place before considering all aspects of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e450	There is little doubt that there is a broad consensus that the best thing is to have a birth certificate where it says the name of one's biological parents. As mentioned from the pulpit here, it is enshrined in the UN Children's Convention that children have the right to know who is a biological father and mother. That's why we're discussing, 1) whether it's right to punish mothers who report the wrong granddaddy or not, and 2) whether this is a proposal that will lead to more people who don't know their biological father today getting to know who he is, as a result of the ban. I assume that this is the last thing that is the aim of the proposers. Is it right to introduce a ban? The laws we make apply to everyone in Norway. A law that criminalises and punishes all women who cannot or will not give birth to a granddaughter will affect all mothers, regardless of the reason why father is not publicly known. Not everyone is so lucky that they live a life without assault, without incest or without being in prostitution. The progress party would think that these are extreme cases, but we have dark numbers when it comes to assault. For example, the number of rapes in Norway is estimated to be between 8 000 and 16 000 every year, and we know that violence in close relations is unfortunately a major social problem. The Progress Party will introduce legislation applies to all, including these women. Sometimes there are less serious reasons why women report the wrong father. Sometimes his mother doesn't know his identity, and sometimes it can be that there are several candidates. It cannot be our role either as elected representatives or as legislators to moralize over this. Nor can it be our role to criminalise and punish these women. So until this proposal will lead to more people knowing who their father is. Here I want to quote from the NOU Fathership and other fun, Karl Harald Soevig's investigation, where he says: ‘Possible sanctions aimed at women — either civil or criminal — could lead to her explaining herself, but there are few remedies for poor memory, which could easily become the strategy in such cases.’ I share Sövig's view that a ban and criminal consequences will not help resolve more cases, so what could be the purpose of such a proposal? As noted in the Committee’s comments, women in Norway have an obligation to provide an explanation of the risk to children. We are willing to discuss whether it works well enough, but punishment is neither right nor appropriate. In the end, the right had a national meeting this weekend, and in the Political Quarter yesterday morning, I heard Høre's new women's political leader mane to fight for bourgeois feminism. It was an old song we've heard before, that the left side doesn't trust individuals to make the right choices for themselves and their own families, and a clear message that the state should stay out of the family's business. It is strange then that the first example of concrete, blue equality policy is a policy that will criminalize and punish mothers who cannot or will not give their father’s name. It's not consistent with my definition of a sensible policy, which takes care of both the individual and the structures of power in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e474	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers for addressing an important issue. So I think it is positive that the Committee and the Storting today have two issues on the agenda, both of which concern the need for children to know and have the right to contact their parents. The starting point for this case is the relationship between children and their biological origin. I think the Council of State in the letter to the Committee expresses this in a good way when he writes the following: ‘It is a general disappointment that it is important to know its biological origin. In the past, economic considerations, such as compulsory contributions and inheritance, were particularly important grounds for determining hazards. Today, greater emphasis is placed on the psychological and emotional aspect. Relationship and identity are closely related.» The European Convention on Human Rights also states that it is a human right to know its mother and father. The Children's Act gives it a public responsibility to establish fatherhood. Women also, in most people's opinion, have a moral duty to provide correct information about who is, or may be, a granddaughter. Women also have a legal obligation to explain under Norwegian law, even though, as many have been involved, refusing to indicate the identity of potential fathers in practice will not meet with criminal liability or cut benefits. But now we see a number of examples that the framework and the routines we have today do not work well enough in all cases. The entire Committee therefore seems to agree that this needs to be improved and further worked on. Women must be made aware of the child’s right to know their parents. We need to make sure that women provide correct information about the child's paternity for the child's sake, because it is important for the children to know their biological origin. The question is, how do we ensure that women give the right father, and not least whether it should be open to criminal consequences? The Party of Progress and the Right shall open up its proposal to evaluate it. Now, reality is often quite complex, and sometimes, unfortunately, it can also be brutal. Pregnancy may also be a result of abuse, as the Council of State has also mentioned in the letter. It's a complicated world we live in, and we're also going to approach some of these issues with some humility. I must therefore say that I am very much in doubt as to whether it would be right to impose penalties in this context. I do feel that there are strong arguments for being very careful and careful with that, and therefore do not want to go in favour of the Right and the Advance Party's proposals in that area. The PFS has also pointed out that any sanctions directed at women could lead to her explaining herself, but that there are few remedies against poor memory, which could easily be the strategy in such cases. However, it is an important work that the Committee has indicated that it wants the Ministry to do, when it continues to work to see if it is possible to reinforce the leadership and signals that can help women to explain themselves as far as possible and to provide the children with the knowledge they deserve and need about their origin. I therefore look forward to seeing the outcome of the ministry's work on these issues and the feedback to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e498	The Progress Party has made proposals to amend the Children’s Act so that women are given the obligation to provide correct information on who is a granddaughter. They propose to assess whether non-compliance with the obligation to provide information should be punishable. I would like to stress that it is important to know their parents, and that the issue being addressed is real, and it is important. Relatives are of great importance to us humans. For children, it is enshrined as a separate human right in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. There's something that everyone, regardless of party membership, can agree on. Today we do not discuss whether children should have the right to know their parents. We are discussing whether to introduce criminal provisions in the family cases under the Children's Act. I record that the Progress Party and I have differing views on the tools to be used to identify hazards. All family things are personal, they're sensitive. Danger cases concern people's lives in the most intimate. I believe that we can find better ways to solve these issues than to threaten – or condemn – punishment. When a child is born without a defined fathership, it will publicly, by Nav, call the mother. The woman has an obligation to explain in such cases, but she is not punished if she cannot or refuses to provide information about possible fathers. A lone mother who does not give birth will not lose the right to social security benefits as a result of this, and I do not believe that a statutory obligation to explain itself will lead to a different outcome from today. If the mother does not provide information, the public will be able to determine danger on the basis of information from a man who claims to be a father or from others. This also applies in cases where the case was initially dismissed. If there is no previously established hazard, the public will be responsible for determining hazard, including for children who have grown up. So the public has a significant responsibility in the safety matters, and I'm assuming that we are fulfilling our human rights obligations in this area. The women who do not indicate who is the father of the child are in different situations. Some do not know the identity of their father, some have had children through anonymous sperm donation abroad, and some do not want to give birth. We don't know anything about the number of children this applies to, but we know that there's no large group. It's about well under 1 pst. of the children who are born. It's also true that some women have children after rape or incest. I think it would be brutal if these women were to be punished for not identifying who is a granddaughter. Other women have children after a random connection. They may not be able to give the name and address of the pediatric father even if they wanted to. And I ask myself, is it these women the Progress Party wants to punish? I wish we could define fatherhood for all children. I would therefore like to stress that I believe that the issue raised by the proposers is important and real. But I also realize that it is not possible to do so in any case. Fortunately, this applies to a small number of issues, and it is important to keep it in mind in the discussion. We must not allow it to become a main issue in the Children's Act that women do not report grandchildren. In the vast majority of cases, this is unproblematic to everyone's satisfaction, but nevertheless we have to consider how to establish a danger for even more children, because it is so important for the individual child. Statutory explanation will not change the substance of the proceedings in these cases, because the mothers already have such a responsibility today. A public body has proposed changes to the safety rules, and the ministry is now working on following up the proposals. I think it is a good opportunity to also go through the procedures for summoning the mother and following up these matters. I believe that better practices can be a good tool to identify more hazards, and that it will be far better than punishing women who are already in a vulnerable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e521	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e524	In March of this year, the Council of State Lighthouse said to TV 2 that he believes that there are too many children who experience having an unknown father, and that today's routines are far too bad to clarify their fathership. The council also said that it is important for children to know who their biological origin is, and underlined the right of all children to know who their biological parents are. The council also said that he believes we have to make sure that several women state the name of the father, by strengthening and improving the meetings we have with women when they are called after giving the unknown father. In his statement, the Council of State also says that we need to change procedures, that we need other instruments, and that he does not like the tools of the Progress Party because we have asked the government to ‘assess’ whether there can be a right to a criminal consequences. My question to the Council of State is: What are the procedures that he wants to change? And what means is the Council of State going to use to fix this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e532	As I said, there is an opportunity to go through the legislation in this field now, because the government has already announced a review of the rules of danger. We've had a public sample that's gone through it, and we'll get to Stortingen with our follow-up of that work. Then I believe that it is natural that we look at the routines around the conversation that Nav has with mothers, and the enforcement of the duty that the public has to establish the danger, because I believe that this issue is important for the children that is particularly relevant. It's a right to get the opportunity to know its biological origin. I don't think we need to consider proposals for criminal reactions, because we know a lot about who these women are. I feel confident that punishing women like that would be an unreasonable and inappropriate response. in the event of an infringement, the indication of a danger to children will not be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e539	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e544	The size has a responsibility. We have a responsibility to the children in this matter, and then it's important and right to focus on the children. The children have the right to know, and that's for the child's best. It can be experienced as very dramatic and traumatic for the children who come up in this situation. We're discussing the means we're going to have to deal with the mothers. I do not think that there are enough awareness campaigns against the mothers in this matter. It can't be that we have as our primary goal of protecting Mother. Mother is obliged to give the name of the child’s father, and then there must be consequences for her mother if she does not state who the child’s father is. Mother can actually destroy the rest of her life for a human being. The rights of children must be respected and, as I said, we have a responsibility for that. We hear many stories about people who have experienced this, and there are no pleasant stories we hear. It's people who've been hurting their souls – yes, deep wounds. Are these the children we want to care for? Or are they the mothers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e553	Yes, this is an important matter, which once again proves that the world is actually not fair. Many fathers have conscientiously put on fatherhood and have been duty - fulfilling fathers of children to whom they have not been father. Many children have felt that it is difficult that they do not know who is father. Yes, Mother has an obligation to explain, and children have the right to know. But dear friend, we can't threaten Mother to identify who is father. We can punish mother, but that doesn't help the child. And what about the cases where mom doesn't know who's the father – that there are several candidates, as the representative Knutson Barstad said. Should we fine the not-know-the-group? But it doesn't help the child that mom loses money because she won't tell me who's the father of the child. It only punishes the child financially too — twice as much — because there is never any financial assistance to get from father. And when giving father is so difficult for mother, it's a serious matter for mother too. I think the best thing we can hope for is that at some point that's for the best of your child's mother takes that settlement in the chamber. So anyway, we can't threaten Mom to tell me who's the father of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e564	I want to take the floor to clarify that the world is not as black-and-white as the representative Thomsen is trying to make it. I wonder if the Progress Party has taken on board that there are some mothers in this country who do not state the correct father to protect their children. Then you can assess whether it is right or not, but there are situations in Norway where granddaddy is also a grandfather. It would be devastating and not necessarily in the best interests of the child to be confronted with this from an early age. These extreme, grotesque and brutal examples are also covered by the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e569	I had not thought it would be necessary to read the proposals of the Progress Party for some representatives in this Chamber, but it is in fact stated in the proposal: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to contribute to women’s choice of providing correct information on the father’s father and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner with an assessment of how the intention of the proposal can be achieved.’ That is the one proposal. Then we ask ‘the government to assess the appropriateness of a criminal law consequence by deliberately failing to comply with the obligation to provide information on pediatrics’ — i.e. women who deliberately fail to do so. We are fully aware that there may be some special cases, but the intention of the proposal applies to women who deliberately choose to lie about their childhood. It's actually a child who asks mother to know, but mother does this consciously, because she won't say it. There may be situations where there is no mention of any rape or that it is, for example, Grandpa who could be a father. It is a human right to know their mother and father, and Section 5 of the Children's Act gives public responsibility for determining the danger. These are comments that Barstad's representative has also made. We have to look here at whether we can assess criminal law consequences, which can also be preventive for mother. So it's probably not just the Progress Party that looks at this case in black and white – I think the representative Barstad does too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e585	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3356]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e601	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e610	In central Norway, power consumption is higher than production, and transmission capacity between parts of the country is generally too low. This has given us a situation where Norway is divided into several price ranges, and where Mid-Norway and North Norway experience power prices far higher than elsewhere in the country during loaded periods. Forces at high prices are being imported and fluctuations have been high in winter. None of us can be satisfied until Norway is one price range in terms of electricity. In Document No: 8:71 S for 2009-2010 is requested to ‘develop an action plan with concrete measures to address a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal’. In this context, the government announced that it had already presented an interim action plan in 2006. Extensive actions have been implemented, most recently the Nea-Järpström link. If we are to avoid similar states in central Norway as we have experienced this winter, it requires will for political action. When the market is alone, we see that there is great uncertainty and strong fluctuations for power customers. Energy savings are very important and the potential in the region is high. It's worth noting the performance of Norsk Industries Stein Lier Hansen earlier this year about restrictions on the power consumption of cabins. Although neither the red-green parties nor the government have concluded in view of stronger power management, it is a debate that deserves much attention in the future, because it is perceived as very unfair – and rightly so – that ordinary families in Trøndelag pay more in winter for their basic consumption than the wealthy people in other parts of the country pay for luxury consumption. But this is also an important debate because technology gives us more and more opportunities. The representative Astrup from the Right recently had a good interplay on the role of information technology in climate change work. Here, smart power management is a very important component, which SV put great emphasis on when the debate on the power crisis crashed in winter. Technology developments make this track increasingly relevant, and are guaranteed something we will come back to here in Stortinget. The development of renewable energy is another important part of the work on a more stable power situation. Since 2005, a concession has been granted to projects with an annual production capacity of approximately 720 GWh hydropower and about 1 TWh wind power in central Norway. There is a sharp increase compared to the situation before the government presented its action plan. Yesterday the government announced that 280 million would be given. SEK to the wind power project in Outer Vakna. There is an additional 110 GWh green force, which corresponds to the annual consumption of 5000 households. It's in 2010 given 1.8 billion. NOK at the work of Enova. That's two and a half times as much as when the bourgeois crashed the country. In 2008 and 2009, projects in central Norway were allocated 350 million. kr, which will generate new energy equivalent to more than 500 GWh. The project at Elkem Thamshavn in Orkdal provides 180 GWh of recovered electricity. Norwegian Forest in Forests has an energy efficiency improvement project that will deliver 250 GWh in reduced annual energy consumption. There is much happening here, and there is reason to follow up the action plan with even greater political momentum in the future. It's more to pick up energy efficiency. It's more to reclaim, green energy, and it's more to get about the willingness to control the power market is increasing. Both smarter power consumption management systems, Smart Grid, and not least white certificates, are things we have to work on in the coming time. White certificates provide energy saving and are marked on the wallet of people. This may also be targeted, as the Committee was described by the United Kingdom Ministry of Energy, in such a way that households with no liquidity to invest in investment are given priority. This is how we can implement measures that are marked on the wallet of those who need it the most, while saving energy. These are the tracks we should follow in the force debate ahead. It is therefore disappointing, but not surprising, to see the opposition in these debates mostly focus on fossil energy. The fact that the Advance Party has not had scruples in describing the mobile gas power plants as a price measure is not surprising, although it is driving the voters in mid-Norway behind the light. But I'm more surprised that the environmental parties Left and Christian People's Party in the North Trøndelag demanded the launch of the highly polluting mobile gas power plants in winter. That the bourgeois parties resort to gas as a solution to each problem is small ironic given that it was these parties that largely created the difficult supply situation in Middle Norway. Let me remind you that SV warned against this situation when the expansion of Ormen Lange was dealt with in the Stortinget in April 2004. I quoted in a previous debate the oil and energy minister at the time, Einar Steensnæs, who had previously said to the press that there was so much enthusiasm for the Worm Lange that no one dared to propose to postpone it because of the power situation. So that's what SV did. It was Middle Norwegian consumers who had to pay in winter for the price of the citizens' lack of foresight when they ran the country. It's worth remembering when the rhetoric from the opposition divides layers with reality. Let's see if that might also do in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e633	There is no political disagreement that the situation related to the power supply in Central Norway is very challenging. The question we are discussing today is whether we are going to spend resources on investigations and plans, or whether resources are going to be used to increase the supply of energy in and to the area. For the Workers' Party and for this government, this choice is simple. We prioritise concrete results rather than new investigations and action plans. Today's energy situation is caused by many years of emergency from different governments over many years. We're not going to spend the time on history today, because we have to look forward to it. But it's nevertheless important to mention it. Our government grants billions of crowns of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement through Enova. Statnets will invest tens of billions of dollars in the repair and construction of new line network in the coming years. Especially the last is what will create a lasting better situation in Middle Norway. Only by making Norway one energy-rich through a well-developed grid for optimal flows of power across parts of the country can we achieve our long-term goal of a common electricity price across Norway. This is our goal, and this is what we're working purposefully for. For the government and the Workers' Party, major but also realistic ambitions for energy development are important. We've invested huge resources and billions of dollars in renewable energy in recent years. It was a marked change of pace in this policy area at the government change in the autumn of 2005. Let me briefly remind you of the following to illustrate this: We've spent more than 7 billion since 2006 and until today. kr for renewable energy investment through Enova. We've created an energy fund that's now up to 25 billion. kr, where the yield goes exclusively to the work of Enova in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. The government has also committed Enova, through a new agreement with Enova, to deliver energy results of 18 TWh renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement from 2002 to 2011. And we have an agreement that they will deliver results of 40 TWh by 2020. We have strengthened the NVE considerably precisely in view of the development of renewable energy. This has led to approximately double the concessional capacity of the NVE compared to 2005. The Government has concluded an intention agreement with Sweden for the establishment of a green certificate market from January 2012. We have introduced energy labelling of buildings, which will be mandatory from 1 July this year. We have put in place a law on marine energy that will be one of the most important frameworks for the future development of renewable energy at sea. In this regard, it must be mentioned that last September the Council of State could be present and open Hywind — the world’s first full-scale floating windmill, located right outside Karmøy in my home state, Rogaland. It's a project that would hardly have been possible without co-financing from the public through Enova. No later than February of this year, Enova allocated 137 million. kr in support of SWAY to develop the world’s largest wind turbine. The goal of SWAY is to be able to take this technology out to sea after a test period. This is the greatest allocation of time to immature technology. In June 2009, Enova had its very largest wind power allocation ever, with a total of 1,1 billion. KR broken down into four projects. These are just a few examples of the great shift in the pace of our nation's energy policy in the field of renewables. It's a time for plans and a time for action. The situation in the region affected by this proposal is very, very challenging. The time for beautiful words, investigations and plans is far too far past. We need more energy in the region, not more documents and papers. For this government and the Workers' Party, it is essential to ensure and secure the power supply for most people, industry and business. For this reason, we will continue the policy we have started. We're going to provide more power, more lines and better supply. We had hoped that everyone else could agree to this, but we're recording that there are different energy policy priorities, and we just have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e683	The power situation in Central Norway has been focused in winter on the basis of very high prices, with peaks up to NOK 11 kilowatt-timen. But it is not new that the power situation in Central Norway has been strenuous. He has been over very, very many years. This case, which has repeatedly been debated in this Chamber, should have begun to look forward to a time window towards a solution. But everyone understands that such a price level of a product we should all have in place to produce at a reasonable price, has a rejection effect that is very damaging to the start-up of business. I myself had the pleasure of renting the food and environment selection in More and Romesdal over a period of time, and we noticed quite clearly that interest in establishing itself in Middle Norway and Moreg and Romesdal was not great, simply because an extra cost of power that many saw as directly unmanageable. So Middle Norway stands out as an area that is less attractive because of the energy prices, and that they stay and are far above the country else, helps to emphasize that this is not a good place to establish themselves. And little indicates that we can wait for a quick solution. For five years now, the red-green government has almost put its hands in jail and let this crisis run its course. Stortinget discusses spring 2006 Document No. 8:52 p.m. for 2005-2006, a proposal by Børge Brende, Ivar Kristiansen and Petter Løvik on an action plan to prevent a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Middle Norway. During the debate on this proposal in Stortinget on 1 June 2006, Mr Odd Roger Enoksen, Minister for Oil and Energy, said the following: ‘I am now working on an action plan as requested, to address the power situation in Central Norway, with a view to bringing forward the action plan early in the autumn.’ We are now approaching June 2010 and have still not seen the action plan to address the power situation in Central Norway. One might wonder if the power deficit is greater in the department and in the state councils than in central Norway. It should have been a force for the longest time taken by the responsible state council to resolve this crisis, but the force of action seems to be absent. For residents, businessmen and not least for those who work hard financially, this is simply not good enough. We hear about many people who have to contact their power suppliers and ask for a payment delay. This widens, and frames which have the least to walk with, and which SV should remove from a poor quarter day with a pen stroke. Instead, this government, with its contributors, has suggested that more people come under the term "poor" because of unmanageable power bills. Then there'll probably also be claims that it'll be taken hold of, like, among other things. two back-up power plants. We've had articles that refer to a single point. But what characterizes these points is that we should, but they haven't given us a time window where we see a solution that one can stick to. But it has been invested in two back-up power plants in the billions class without it being relevant to starting them up as a price-regulating agent. So we hear that when the market decides on its own, we get very high prices – and that's right. But because of line construction and other things that are in the hands of a government that is far too little solution-oriented, where one leaves everything to the market, one gets these prices that are unwanted. It is also claimed that we should build a permanent solution to Fardal–Örskog, but we also lack a concrete timeframe. It's a paradox that in the winter of 2009-2010, nuclear power plants actually scared us through the winter. This shows the seriousness of the situation, and the solutions given as monsters cannot be expected quickly. That's just not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e699	The power supply in Central Norway has been a highly combustible matter in recent years. The Committee points out in its opinion that for several years there has been an underbalance in the electricity generation and consumption ratio in Central Norway. The situation in Central Norway has been dramatic both for business and for private individuals. It is very regrettable that previous promises to submit an action plan to address the difficult situation of power supply in central Norway have not been made. On 1 June 2006, former oil and energy minister Odd Roger Enoksen promised to present an action plan for the supply of electricity. Neither Åslaug Haga nor the current Minister for Oil and Energy have kept this promise. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State indicates that the government has a plan to improve the power situation in central Norway. It consists of building more networks, ensuring increased renewable energy production and energy efficiency measures. If the red-green government had presented a concrete action plan on how to solve future challenges with the power situation in Middle Norway in 2006, we would not have had the disastrous results of a failed red-green policy as we see today. The planning and development of networks that take into account important natural values and proximity to bus services, and where a much greater willingness to use cables as mitigation measures had given faster treatment times and faster deployment. Green certificate lifting also creates distrust of public authorities and can reduce the development of renewable energy. We see many examples of NVE and Enova legislation seeing unnecessary limitations in the production of renewable energy. Yesterday, it became known that Enova had given support to three wind power projects. One of these was Outer Week at 110 GWh. What is not in the press release is that it was originally planned to build a 550 GWh wind farm. It had given five times as much power as the base area of Middle Norway. Many wind projects are controversial with regard to the environment, visibility, proximity to busses, etc. The territory of the Outer Vicna is among the least controversial in the whole country, and they are wanted by both the landowners, the municipality and a unified business. The fact that one cannot achieve a real effort in such an area contrasts strongly with the need for power in central Norway. It's Enova's code that prevents a major expansion. Another example of handling in the department is the Terråkvassdrag in the municipality of Bindal in the Nordic region. Option A, which will be expanded by the municipality and county, will produce 59,8 GWh annually. Option D, which NVE will deploy, will provide an annual production of 37 GWh. This probably means half of the production in an area that has already been used for power generation. The NVE rule allows the smallest option to be selected. Bindal Municipality hopes that the department will support an extension that will give the most GWh and the best local ringing effects, especially because the expansion is taking place in an area that is worn out by force, as it has been a major focus in winter. Another important reason for the slow development of short-range power is the management time for concessions in the NVE and the ministry. According to the information I have today, there are 528 concession applications for power development that are for handling. It is handled approx. 70 concession applications per year, which means a processing period of more than seven years. It's very dramatic for the speed of renewable energy expansion. Transferring the concession management of the smallest power plants to municipalities would speed up the processing of concession requests. It would also have been an important measure to get more projects into production. An action plan to resolve the power situation in central Norway, which was promised in 2006, could have facilitated the construction of power lines and cables that were concerned with bustness and nature values. It would provide systems with greater capacity and improve security of supply. Massive investment in renewable energy would provide large amounts of short-range electricity, and better regulation and efficiency in state bureaucracy would provide faster case-handling and faster deployment. These are some of the concrete measures an action plan for power supply in central Norway should contain, and it is very disappointing to see that red-green politicians are unable to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e729	The power situation in Central Norway has been discussed many times earlier in this house, and it has also been updated due to the low temperatures of this winter and the situation associated with nuclear power production in Sweden, which in periods has given very high prices, not only in central Norway, but in the whole of the Nordic region with a few exceptions. The supply situation in this area is still vulnerable. The case spokesperson did well for the measures that the government has seen to meet this situation in the short and long term. It is quite obvious that the commitment to renewable production through Enova is one of those measures, and that action is working. We know that the Mid-Norway region is particularly focused on the government's work precisely because of the difficult supply situation. There's been a concession for the construction of new power both for water and for wind, and the mound that outer vikna no has been given is the last one on the trunk here. It has also been a commitment to an increase in energy efficiency, which has produced tangible results, but as long as the situation is vulnerable, work must continue and be strengthened. That's what the government does. So it's that new network connection is one of the central jokers to secure power into this region. It is clear that grids are crucial if you want to move power from an area that has good power generation – excess power generation – and into areas that have limited access. The representative Lødemel is also aware of this. I didn't hear him themetizing it in his post, but it's clear that new power from the West to Central Norway is as soon as possible an important element in solving the challenges in central Norway and other places in the country where we don't have enough power today. The criticism from the opposition that comes up here is the same as the one that has been before. I also think it would have been real for the opposition to compare its work with the work of governments that we've had before, both in terms of political priorities and the political results in the field of energy, because then I think I would have seen that this government has come out pretty well when it owes it to you, and that one has warned to continue working along these lines. Eirin Sund mentioned in his article many of the concrete measures that have been taken. I'm not going to repeat them here now, just stating that when it comes to the production of renewables, renewables, energy efficiency improvement, research, the development of new energy also on the grid, it's going to be gripped. The opposition is becoming increasingly advocating plans, but apart from that, unity is not going to go very far. It is fascinating to follow the different parties' arguments in this room. The Party of Progress has no restraints when it comes to supplementing the supply of energy with impeccable gas power. They've been clear about that, and so far hold on all the way, so it's a pretty good line. Right arguments for this when appropriate and when inappropriate. I note that representatives from the Right in this Chamber have called for the start of mobile gas power plants and the construction of new impeccable gas power plants, and a few days later, the party leader in the Right is standing on this spokesroom and worries about the Norwegian emissions and demands in connection with Mongstad-saka accounting for where these emissions are to be booked. So this is not a consistent line. This option determines which day type of reasoning is used and which type of reasoning matches the current day. The most exciting thing that can come out of this debate is getting to the right about concrete measures, except for those we know, that have already come when it comes to gas power, and especially from the opposition party that has this requirement, but which is in agreement with the government that we should not start up the mobile gas power plants for price-regulating purposes, nor build new impurity gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e748	I am pleased that we have this debate here in the Chamber today because it is an important matter. It is one thing that deserves our focus after the winter that we have spent behind us – a demanding winter for the energy sector and demanding both for industry and households in Central Norway, but also in other parts of the country. Looking at winter, we see that we were getting new price ranges, and that clearly tells us that we have an imbalance in power generation compared to the consumption we have at all times. It is not desirable to have so many price ranges, but in winter it was necessary, and it clearly shows that here we have an imbalance that we have to tackle. The rapporteur, Serigstad Valen, presented this proposal as music in the ears of a Christian People's Party representative. I think the case rapporteur said something like this: through market management alone, we see strong fluctuations. This is something that the Christian People's Party has pointed out in this period, but also in the previous period in view of the deregulation we received from the power sector 20 years ago. Overall, this was a successful deregulation, but it is when we have challenges related to security of supply, we believe that we should have a little more political governance. After listening to the case rapporteur Snorre Valen and also to the committee leader Erling Sande's challenges in relation to what the opposition will do, I cannot with my best ability understand why not the government, with SV on board, follows a bit of the thinking of the Christian People's Party, with more political governance in critical situations. I – and we – believe that this is the right step to take. Then I must also have a little visit to Enova's allocation at Outer Vikna yesterday, which was mentioned in praiseworthy order. Nothing would be better than if 5,000 houses got energy from these windmills. But the windmill history in Norway has taught us one thing: none of us should boast that there will be energy for these houses before we can see that the stove lights red, because here there has been more postponement than perhaps in any other area. This brings me to Eirin Sund's post, that there are concrete results that count for this government, not plans. Let me then say about the results and the pace shift in relation to wind power: we should have had 3 TWh by 2010. It was a total big deal. When the Bondevik II government left the ship in 2005, we had 1.4 TWh in order. Last year, the government shrunk 3 TWh. So we had half left to achieve a common goal. Not even the government was able to make room for Stoltenberg II, despite its great commitment to Enova. The target's been scolded. It's a ramsal criticism from the Riksrevision about how Enova is run. These are the concrete results. When you add these to the show list that both the representatives Eirin Sund and Erling Sande were in, you could think that you had had little time to prepare for a debate on Mid-Norway and rather took a script to tell you about the government's fantastic energy effort. I don't think the people of Middle Norway this winter have experienced that the government has been so amazing in this area. I think that we're all wiser to be a little bit more sober about how we talk about the situation we've been through, and what is actually implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e770	Like the majority of the Committee, I would like to point out that in 2006 the government presented a preliminary action plan, the main thrust of which was to improve the power situation. This action plan has been followed up by comprehensive measures. The network in and into the area has been strengthened, and the government has made a significant contribution to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. State networks have made extensive network investments in the transmission system in and into the region. In total, Statnet has invested about 5 billion over the last few years. kr in the area, including the costs of the reserve power plants. In addition, investments from Svenska Kraftnet, which partially benefits Mid-Norway. State networks also plan large investments in the region over the next ten years. Network reinforcements have made it possible to import more power into central Norway and to provide better power flows in the region. It's been important in the situation we've had this winter. Statnett has, among other things: built a new 420 kV line between Sunndalsøra and Fränna and Nyhamna. In addition, Statnett has implemented nine capacitor batteries and two SVC installations to maintain the import capacity of the area. The transfer link Nea-Järpströmmen was activated at the end of 2009. Final work on the route was carried out just before Easter this year. This link has significantly increased transmission capacity between Central Norway and Sweden. The main single measure in the government’s work in Central Norway is to establish a new transmission link between Sogn and More. Statnett has received a concession from NVE, but the decision of the NVE has been appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The matter is now being dealt with in the department. Realising this transmission link will significantly improve the power situation in Central Norway. After the inspection last year, it was clear to the Ministry of Oil and Energy that alternatives to the concession solution chosen from the NVE were needed on the route over Sunnmøre. The Ministry therefore sent a letter to Statnett yesterday asking that Statnett apply for the concession for the option with a new transformer station in the municipality of Sykkylven, with the corresponding renovation of existing 132 kV line Ørskog-Sykylven-Haugen. Such a concession application must be made in order to enable this option to be fully assessed against the concessional solution on the Ørskog-Örsta route. At the same time, I have come to the conclusion that there are not yet strong enough reasons to request a concession request for the sea cable option, which has also been investigated by Statnett. These are difficult balances we now have to make in the Ministry of Oil and Energy to ensure the necessary progress in the work to increase the power supply to Middle Norway. In 2010, Enova is transferring SEK 1.8 billion to work on renewable energy and energy conversion. That's two and a half times as much as in 2005. It provides the basis for a significant effort this year. In 2008 and 2009, projects in central Norway were allocated 350 million. kr, which will generate new energy production between 500 and 600 GWh. One of those projects is Norwegian Forest in Forest. Enova has committed 50 million. kr in support of an energy efficiency project with a total cost framework of 320 million. kr. And then we get an effect of about 250 GWh/year of this. There is a project in the process of completion and a project in which support from Enova has additionally provided the basis for a comprehensive district heating system and expansion in the region. The NVE prioritises the concession treatment of projects that can contribute rapidly to enhancing security of supply in vulnerable regions. It's mentioned to the Stortinget earlier. It's given results in Middle Norway. Among other things, there is a concession to approximately 1 TWh wind power in the area of NO3, i.e. Middle Norway, since 2005. Yesterday, it became publicly known that Enova allocated 228 million. SEK to Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plants for the development of the wind power project Outer Vikna in Vikna municipality in Nord-Trøndelag. The annual production of the wind farm is estimated to be around 110 GWh. The wind power plant at the Outer Vicna is a very good energy measure, which will now also lead to improved energy availability in Middle Norway, as the project will be carried out. Favorable wind conditions and small negative environmental impacts provide the basis for significant renewable energy production. Increased investments in renewable energy and in the power grid are important measures to improve the power situation in central Norway. A broad focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement are key elements of our policies to improve the situation in the region. With the allocation from Enova, it is now arranged for us to be able to exploit the energy production potential, and in this case concretely in relation to Outer Vicna, in a better way than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e797	The councils actually came up with news when he told me about the concession request to Middle Norway. The power industry itself has called for clarification around the Ørskog-Fardal line, just as it has expected a clarification of the powerline situation into Hordaland and Bergen in particular. Now, when one asks to have a concession request with regard to the Sykylven, what does that mean with regard to further progress? Can the Council of State provide an estimate as to when an investment decision can be expected at the earliest? The assumption then is that the OED has given a concession, or that the NVE has given a concession, that it has finished charging and the whole package. When can one expect the earliest to start building this extended power line into Middle Norway, and what does the Council think will be the net effect on the power situation, i.e. the net input of TWh, current, per. years from that line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e802	Now when I go out and ask Statnett to apply for a concession on a liner to, it's not to delay the process, and to make sure that we have alternatives on the table and so on can make decisions when we're otherwise ready for it. However, there are several different challenges that need to be resolved along the line, which require quite extensive processes to address the ground of appeal, the local resistance and the balances that lie locally in the selection of one line ahead of the other. So with all due respect for dates and guarantees, I think I'll be a little careful to say exactly when this process is over. But I think Stortinget is familiar with my impatience after completing this line, and I'm going to promise Stortinget that I will do what is possible to not let any time be lost here in order to get the project realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e807	It was exciting to hear the news about Ørskog-Fardal, maybe we can go into it a little bit later. There are large bottlenecks in the grid, we're quite a few of them. But there are also large bottlenecks in the bureaucracy, and there are great questions about the speed with which concession applications are being implemented, but there are also some questions about competence. The last time in the Official Journal of the European Communities, a good deal of questions have been asked about the treatment of the Hardanger concessions. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State assess the situation in bureaucracy when it comes to capacity and competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e816	I acknowledge that on capacity it has been too bad. What we took over in that area, especially in relation to the processing capacity in the NVE, was not good enough, and this has resulted in a follow-up here, which we must say we are still struggling with. So I wish that what has now been done, i.e. that we have almost doubled the capacity in relation to concession treatment, had been done earlier. It would have helped us to get further in relation to concession requests now, and that we had avoided building up as much remains, as much queue, as we have done. As far as the level of competence is concerned, I perceive that the situation where it has always been better. I perceive that there is a high level of professional competence in the NVE, and that we have good processes in Norway around assessments of different conditions related to e.g. to bring up new power lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e823	I will later return to the playbacks that have come from red-green representatives related to the responsibility for the power situation in central Norway and what governments etc. which is to be attributed to different parts of that responsibility. But what we can agree on anyway is that power supply and security of supply in all parts of the country is a political responsibility and is the responsibility of the authorities. The Council of State has strongly defended the principle of territorial prices, and I can agree with that. Territorial prices shall be adjusted whenever the market so requires for various temporary reasons. But if we were to get a real dry-year situation, which we haven't yet had, which means that we get a winter with months at much higher prices in central Norway than in the rest of the country, people in central Norway will pay some sort of penalty tax because the authorities haven't done their job. Then the question to the Council of State is, is that why we have the area pricing system? Is it reasonable that it works that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e830	Price ranges are not criminal taxes. Price ranges are a mechanism to avoid a crisis of preparedness and supply, and to contribute to the proper functioning of the market in draining power into where power is needed. Then I fully agree that what we have seen this winter in the way the market has operated on in terms of price mechanisms and price quotations is alarming. I am not comfortable with what we have seen this winter. That's also why I asked the NVE to start a larger study on this, to go through what has actually happened. I'm set to look at this carefully for the next winter, when I get something more background material than I have now, for a situation where the market is so sensitive and reacts as extreme as it did in winter. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e837	First, I note that the Council of State does not want to give a reasonable period of time or a time perspective on the powerline of Central Norway, in a matter that this government has been running for over four and a half years, where the situation was difficult from the first second. But I'll let that lie. What should in any case be a better solution than a power line is to expand new production in the area, so that one does not just have to distribute the production that one has, but can actually ensure even more production in Norway. In central Norway we have the gas power project for Industrikraft Møre. They have been granted a concession and they have received an emission permit that requires CO2 cleaning at start-up. This government has today presented in the revised budget a case in which a postponement of clean-up in Mongstad, which means that they will have to be granted a new emission permit where the requirement for CO2 clean-up is also suspended. This is clearly a discrimination between other similar projects. Will the Council of State intervene to ensure that gas power plants can also be built in central Norway, where the flow is most needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e854	I doubt whether gas power plants in central Norway would be built under the condition that there was a temporary exemption from cleaning, i.e. that it was a few years in time for the cleaning to come. That's what's happening in Mongstad; it's not like you've let go of the plans to clean the emissions there, but it's going to be a little bit more time. In this respect, I believe that that comparison is not correct in relation to what is the process at Mongstad towards a sewage treatment plant, towards a situation where CO2 emissions are managed, and that we have said that the power plants in Norway based on gas planned below must enter a similar regime from day one. It is predictable, and I believe it is forward-looking in relation to the environmental and climate challenges. As we gain more knowledge about the capture and storage of CO2, we will also bring down costs, and technology will be more applicable than today. Here I believe it is important that the authorities are clear and show that it is serious about putting the cleaning technology in place. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e867	Before the last representative receives the floor, the President will only remember that the representative and the Council of State also have a clock in front of them, which is the same as the President follows!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e870	There is no doubt that consumers and businesses in Central Norway have had to pay a price for a failure in energy policy. In its contribution, the Council of State referred to an interim action plan presented a few years ago. We know that what happened in winter was a notified crisis. The Council of State has also framed a number of measures that he believes this government has taken to improve the situation, but we still see the results, in the form of the high price Mid-Norway has had to pay. The question to the Council of State is: could the Council of State and the Red-Green Government do something different, having been in power since 2005, in order to avoid consumers and businesses in Central Norway paying the high price of energy that we have experienced this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e877	To the end, I would say that it is obvious that if you had come further with the power line projects, and if you had started building the energy production in the area earlier, it would have contributed to the plus-time. But I think we should be so honest with each other to say that after a winter when a place between 4000 and 5000 MWh fell out on the Swedish side, we are a little bit away from the fact that there are some single projects on the Norwegian side that are the main explanation of what went wrong. In winter we had a discussion about the reserve power plants and their significance. We are talking about a production of approx. 140 MW per power plant, while the Swedish outcome is a place between 4000 and 5000 MW in most cases. So when it comes to what the representative Meling started to say about ‘a notified crisis’, I would say that some of the challenge this winter was actually that we were not aware of what was happening to the power supply from our Swedish friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e888	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e893	Several nuclear power plants in Sweden were put out of operation or went on reduced capacity in winter. Power prices went to heaven in mid-Norway and gave serious price estimates far into the New Year. It is grossly unfair that businesses and households in Central Norway have to pay much more for the flow than the rest of the country. It is also critical that the government has for almost five years failed to take the necessary steps to remedy the situation, except to install two mobile gas power plants, two environmental bombs to 2.5 billion. kr, which cannot be used until everything goes into black. One might be tempted to believe that this is a misguided policy by the government as the Right has repeatedly put forward proposals in the UK to develop a separate action plan for Central Norway. Time and again, the government and changing state councils of the Center Party have devalued the situation and rejected all recordings. Former State Council Odd Roger Enoxsen claimed that the government was working on an action plan to present it to the Stortinget in autumn 2006. So far no one has seen the plan. In this serious matter, there are many examples of the government showing paralysis. When Statoil received a concession from Norway's watercourse and energy directorate to build gas power plants on the Tjeldbergodden, the project was scrapped because the government demanded full capture of CO2 from day one. That it cannot be built with such requirements is understandable, as such capture from day one is very costly. When Industriekraft Møre finally received a concession to build gas power plants in Fräna, the government made the same strict demands. Here we are talking about a modern gas power plant with twice as high efficiency as the two mobile environmental bombs of 2.5 billion. kr. It is difficult to understand that at the same time as the government imposes full clean-up of CO2 from day one in Norway, Norwegian-owned Statkraft builds gas power plants without CO2 cleaning in Germany, and uses Norwegian gas – where the installations are eco-labelled! Specific requirements for the capture and storage of CO2 are meaningless, as gas power plants in both Norway and Germany will be part of the EU ETS market for greenhouse gases. It is the total allocated emission allowances that determine greenhouse gas emissions – not whether they come in Norway or Germany. The impact of government's no on gas power plants only helps to raise electricity prices in central Norway, not to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The right says yes to the construction of gas power plants in More and Romesdal without any special requirements for the capture and storage of CO2 from day one. We say yes to more renewable energy by building more small-scale power plants and modernising and gently expanding existing older power plants, which can provide more renewable energy. And we now expect the link between Ørskog and Fardal, with demands for cables in the most vulnerable areas, to be launched as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e929	If you build an industry in Central Norway, you don't get to build a gas power plant. If you build an oil field outside Finnmark, you get to build gas power plants – without cleaning. Builds Hydro in Qatar, travels royal family and councillors there and cheers. If you build the same thing in More and Romesdal, you're going to get the hell out of it if you even mention the word "gas power station". This illustrates the challenges of Norwegian energy policy and is mainly the cause of the current situation, namely a failing will or ability to cut through difficult issues and ensure that power supply security is above national CO2 accounts. The world's CO2 emissions would not have been greater if one had burned the gas in Middle Norway rather than exporting it to the rest of the world. It's the amount of gas a pumper up, which determines how much emissions are going to be, not whether it's burning in Norway, Qatar, England or Germany. The history description of the representative Serigstad Valen was interesting. It is quite right that SV was opposed to the project – I think he should also mention it to the representative Langeland, as in Rogaland, to the oil industry, boasts that SV was in favour of the project. I'll leave it. But the representative Valen leaves off to say that the Progress Party also pointed out the force situation. Our solution was the opposite of the representative Valen claims was SV's solution. We said build the Worm Lange, but also build a gas power plant. Two of the parties currently in government, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, had no alternative solutions to the Bondevik administration in the Worm Lange case. Sitting and hanging out with the Bondevik government for lack of action in 2004 is not credible when one did not have alternative solutions himself. That's what one must compare to in most cases when one discusses this: what was the government Bondevik proposed, versus what the individual party proposed that year. It is not useful to come and show that one in the last two years has proposed enormous increases in the mandate and appropriations of the NVE, for there has been no disagreement. The question is whether some of the government parties proposed something else in 2003–2004, and it was not. So there is today's and previous government in the same boat. Today's proposal would not be necessary if one had had the ability of today's government to do something four and a half years ago. No one from the opposition wants more action plans for the paper part. The reason why we still ask for this is that the government has not delivered anything of importance. That line as an e.g. narrator from Sweden – yes, you can start reading about it already under the direction of the Bondevik government – is not a genuine red-green project. The only genuine red-green thing in Central Norway today is two mobile gas power plants, which the case-rapporteur argued very well why the government does not want to use. Why all day long they spent money buying it, rather than putting a pot off at Enova to stimulate the production of renewable energy only in central Norway – possibly stimulating a CO2 clean-up project at a gas power plant in central Norway, possibly accelerating the line development? That's the problem. Many of the things that the government boasts about here are general instruments for the whole of Norway. It has nothing to do with Mid-Norway, and that's why you don't get to solve the situation in Mid-Norway either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e955	First, when the representative Solvik-Olsen says it's important that you come with the full history description, I agree with the representative. And when I've mentioned, not only today, but sometimes also, that these are failure sins from 15 years back, I also admit that there are other governments, with different colors than the governments that sat before this government, had. So different governments, with different colors, have to take responsibility for having ended up in this situation. When the representative Line Henriette Hemdal doesn't like that we say anything about what we've done – and actually got – and calls it a show-off list, I hear it, and I register it. But it's now the way the government has done it, it has done it, and it's true that we've done what we've done. The most important thing is not what we have done, but it is important in a matter like this to point out that one has actually done something. But the important thing is to say what we're going to do. When the representative, Mr. Hemdal, creates the impression that the position does not take on the serious situation in Central Norway, I would say strongly that it is creating a wrong picture. Because it is precisely because of the situation in central Norway and the challenge there – the fact that we have not done enough – that we cannot come up with political, easy-to-use solutions or words. We have to make action. And then there's more power, more lines and better supply to. It must be a paradox to the representative, Mr Hemdal, that the other parties with which she is opposed have two answers. One is that they have to build gas power plants – and it has to be done without cleaning – and the other is network expansion. I was in London with an environmental spokesman from the Right who couldn't answer a clear and clear yes to development, for example. in the case of Ørskog-Fardal or Sima-Zomnanger, for that matter, and a place in the middle of it. It says something about how difficult this case is, and that it is much more complicated than the question of a gas power plant or one. Then I would say to the representative Holten that yes, the representative Holten is quite right when she points out that we did not reach the goal of wind power. So it's not like we've missed that goal, but we've realized, and we've recognized that we didn't get it done. The turmoil in the world economy did not improve exactly that situation; that's not the whole explanation. But so is it that Enova has been asked to spend money where you get the most back for the money. It's been at the expense of wind, because it's had a price tag, it's been so expensive, and it's done more to the cinema. So then I get a little bit abandoned because we're being criticized for what we've done, and I'm going to comment on what we're going to do. An opposition wants an action plan, but very few outside Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the Progress Party say something about what they think the action plan, if any, should contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e968	The President assumes that the constant reference to the representative Holten is intended to concern the representative Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e971	The representative, Røbekk Nørve, is dabbling into the very polemics that I warned against at the beginning of this debate. But it may seem like the Right – and I got the impression that yesterday’s debates in the environmental field too – are currently going completely empty. Not one action has been implemented in Central Norway, claims the representative, although both I and the Council of State have explained the many measures that have been implemented and will be implemented in both energy saving, money allocation and concessions to new energy and network improvements. Then the Right has to decide – now they have to start making a choice on the question of gas power. A little less than a week ago, several Right-Representatives stood on the pulpit in the Storting and described it as a disaster for the climate that Mongstad is exposed, even though the Right itself has previously taken the floor that it was okay, if it turned out to be necessary. The government has been criticised by the representative Astrup to lack ambitions in climate policy, because one does not get to clean up quickly enough. At the same time, in a winter in which we experience a power crisis, land and beach run around and order to start up the highly polluting mobile gas power plants, as price measures, and then come here to the pulpit and mention the same power plants as climate bombs – because there are some of us who have tried to say all along. At the same time, one cannot criticise the government for the lack of ambitions in the field of gas power, in the form of a comment on the matter we are actually discussing here, that the government by making strange demands for full CO2 management from day one has actually said no to new plans for gas power plants in Norway. It just doesn't hang in any way at all. Either you are in order to demand cleaning from day one – and then it is absolutely legitimate to criticize the government for not acting fast enough, it is an opinion we all share; we all want to clean gas power plants as quickly as possible – or you have to say that strange demands for CO2 cleaning are negative because it prevents the development of gas power. It does the right in the hall today. But it's impossible to debate gas power and CO2 cleaning and climate with the Right when you change positions from which ones you're looking to reach with your populist rhetoric on a day-to-day basis. There will be a very unyielding and unbridled debate, not just for us in the government parties, but not least for the voters, who get very different signals from the Right from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e987	The power situation in Central Norway is serious. It is serious because until the Ørskog-Fardal transmission line is in place, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the region tackles a period of no precipitation. And it should not be the case in Norway in 2010 that a part of the country is exposed to such uncertainty. However, the price picture in winter has been such that Mid-Norway has to a large extent had the same prices as North Norway and the rest of the Nordic market. It sometimes surprises me in these debates that people who want Middle Norway well and want it to be attractive for business to invest in Middle Norway, do not make any more effort to give a nuanced picture of the price situation as it has been, and are, in Middle Norway. But the power situation is serious because of the uncertainty it creates for dry-year situations. Then I would like to pay tribute to the Sund representative, who is more nuanced than his red-green colleagues in terms of the responsibilities of the situation we are in, and indicates that it is due to more governments. But several of the other red-green representatives have been all the less humble and produced it as if the Bondevik II government lacked foresight and did not do anything, while the red-greens have followed up with many measures. It is only to take a small test on some of the most important measures mentioned. When did the Ørskog-Fardal transfer line planning start? When did the transmission line Nea – Järpströmen start planning? Under what government did Statnett start work on obtaining the mobile back-up power plants? The answers to these questions clearly show that the Bondevik II government acted in relation to the power situation in central Norway, and the red-green moulding list becomes the shorter of such a test. Nevertheless, there is no government that can beat itself on the chest and say that it is pleased with its efforts. However, with regard to the challenge of the Health Representative to refer to what action should be included in such an action plan, I can mention two things. The first would be to set a deadline for the treatment of the Ørskog-Fardal line – not because the procedure should not be proper, but to put pressure on all parties to ensure maximum progress, so that we can obtain a decision as soon as the case is properly dealt with. The second is about oil and energy ministers being able to determine that price ranges are in order to deal with normal variations in the power market between consumption and production, while a situation over time where a country has to pay an additional penalty tax on the electricity price because the authorities have not done their job is not the purpose of the price ranges. The Council of State can declare that such a situation we will not accept that these areas should be triggered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1000	It was the post of the representative Røbekk Nørve from the Right that made me take the word. So if I understood the representative correctly, she says it doesn't matter where these emissions come from, whether they're in Norway or in other countries. Therefore, build gas power plants. It's a possible position. It is quite fair to have that position, but it is not possible for one to have signed an agreement here on the Stortinget with all the parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, on climate settlements, where a set target on emissions cut in Norway – Norwegian cut. Here, too, the government, which many people have been in, has been criticized by its representatives for being too ambitious. I'm quite surprised that a party like Right, with a story that at least a consistent and serious party, now in more and more cases comes and has at least two points of view, in this hall, within the same party. Here one has to make some choices, and then I think they have to clarify – now there are two Right-Representatives after me on the list of speakers – the following: Are the Right still in favour of the climate agreement? If so, how would a gas power plant balance its plans to build in central Norway? Is it within the transport area? Is it within the industry? Where does the Right intend to enter the extra emission in which area? So this debate has gone into an old track, that one is more busy discussing what has been going on than what we're going to do in the future. I found that the opposition has not responded to the challenges of making concrete action. One has come up with a measure, and it's a gas power plant. Then the representative made a last attempt in his post with another action, the maximum progress on the Ørskog-Fardal line. I agree with that is an important measure, and the Council of State has told him to hold it. I had hoped that this debate would be a debate on several measures we could take on the energy side to resolve the challenging situation that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1009	I have recorded, both yesterday and today, that red-green politicians are concerned about Right and that we should have different positions on different issues. I think we're following a consistent line. When they are also concerned about Right's ascension, with the background of a great national meeting, and that the Council of State, Solheim and SV, as well as the Central Party, get worried about a great debate like yesterday, we can only promise that there will be much more here. It is also interesting to see the right-wing representative Valen when he talks about who came on the track when it stormed the most around impure gas power plants in central Norway. Yes, there were red-green politicians who filled the newspapers in More and Romesdal, in Trøndelag County demanding the start-up of the mobile gas power plants. They were the ones who got tough. It is also worth noting that the representatives who were not in the Chamber when they were going to deal with the proposals were just red-green politicians from central Norway. It's very regrettable. It is pointed out that the Right has not placed any solutions on the table. That's what I think is completely wrong. I said in my post that I wanted to increase local production, small power and other local production. We need better guidelines that allow us to produce more power. We need much faster case management, for example: The municipalities can take over much of the case-handling of small power plants, and we need a new network policy that allows us to get a more gentle development of the network. I myself live in an area that could have been affected by the expansion of the Ørskog-Fardal line, and I have known on my body the strong turmoil that it means to my community, to my inhabitants and to my people. I work a lot with those things when I was a spokesperson in my municipality. That's why you have to respect the people who fight against these forces because they see that they want to destroy their environment, destroy a lot of the life base that is. I think one should respect it. So I keep listening to the representative Erling Sande commenting on my attitude to the Ørskog-Fardal line. I was in an election campaign where red-green politicians repeated once and for all that if Ørskog-Fardal line comes, it's going to get away from people. We had a round with the minister not long ago where we were talking about Naustdal, an area where people really get dizzy, because they get a 420 kV power line right in jail. My question to the representative Sande is: What does the representative Sande do with Naustdal? How will he influence the situation so that the Minister makes a reasonable assessment of the air voltage planned by Naustdal, when both the county and the municipalities say they do not want it? What would the representative Sande do when it concerns Naustdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1024	The President will in no way intervene in the debate, but just point out that there has been a relatively long evening meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1027	I asked for the word after the post that the representative Snorre Valen held, where he goes high on the track and criticises Right to lack ambitions in climate policy, to criticise the Mongstad process and to change rhetoric from day to day – to repeat what Snorre Valen said. If we start with the first, the accusation of lack of ambition in climate policy, I can assure the representative Valen that the Right has great ambitions in climate policy. We are more questioning about what is the ambitions of the Socialist Left Party and the government in climate policy. Climate change was just presented. The government’s response to these 160 measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a number of sectors is to postpone a one-year climate action plan. What ambitions, what momentum, what level of activity is the government and the Valen's own party behind climate policy? Even projects that would reduce climate change emissions and are socio-economically profitable have not been clearly implemented by this government. We know that for every day that goes, the measures we have to take are more expensive for business, for the individual consumer and for society, precisely because we are waiting for what we agree on in the future. So the representative Serigstad Valen criticises our criticism of the process around Mongstad. Yes, we criticize this process. The government itself has gone high with its promises of full clean-up in Mongstad and has had to go back on these promises in terms of the technological and industrial challenges that lie there. The right has not been against the idea that we should bet on cleaning in Mongstad, but it is the government – and the council of state from the same party as the representative Serigstad Valen – that sits with the key in terms of day-to-day management and contact with the stakeholders. The fact that we criticize the process does not mean that we do not support the ambitions to develop cleaning technologies that can be commercialised and used elsewhere. The right does not in any way change the rhetoric from day to day. We are concerned about climate, and we are also concerned about security of supply. We see that gas and gas power plants can contribute here, but we also want to develop the technology that makes it possible to clean the gas power plants in the long term. I can reassure the representative Erling Sande that the Right is of course behind the climate agreement we have concluded, and we are prepared to participate and contribute constructively in terms of where the cuts will come. We are calling for – and have called for – the government's initiative to take discussions on how to take these cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1043	This debate is about drawing up an action plan to prevent such a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal as we have experienced this year. We want a plan, not a listing in a debate on what has been done – because it is absolutely impossible to put together in a plan. If this is to be implemented, the plan must contain targets – defined targets. The objective is to provide a secure power supply to Middle Norway. There must then be defined objectives, deadlines and targets for each year — and normally costs incurred. It seems that government is as immune to action plans as it is to private initiatives. It is clear that in connection with safe power supply to Middle Norway there are many difficult decisions that need to be made, but you cannot skip it. In order to move forward, this needs to be implemented. The foreground part acknowledges that gas power plants in the area had been the best. And we find it hard to understand that a gas power plant in Central Norway is not as useful as what Statkraft is building in Germany – it's quite ok, the state owns Statkraft, but there's no reason why we should have any intervention from the owners. The whole core, the whole point is to come up with a plan, which was promised in 2006, but which is not available today. You hear about many good things that have been done – and that is certainly right, also many difficult things – but if we get a plan together, we can assess whether it is good. Politicians are unable to make the plan, but the professional bodies that the government can use have to make the plan. Then we'll discuss it and see if it's good enough to ensure that we avoid a situation with high power prices and partly poor access to power to Middle Norway, as this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1050	As a northern crowd, I find it very frustrating to listen to the debate that is taking place here in the Chamber. When SV says to solve this crisis by doing something about the power consumption of the cabin people in the region, you haven't really understood what it's about. We have a business life in Trøndelag that now over several years – in fact over a decade – has said that this is going the wrong way. If you don't do something right away, you're going to have a significant reduction in capacity, because it's going to be too expensive. We've seen the results of this, and we see that in the newspapers in the middle of Norway day in and day out. So there should be no surprise for anyone that large industrial companies are now faltering and have major problems keeping the workforce in operation. Pulling it to that point that it is the power consumption of the cabin people and the saving of ordinary households that will solve this problem, I am very provoked to hear. Because that's not the reality; then you haven't understood what it's about. So the Labour Party in the debate says that action is a priority. Yeah, but why don't you do anything? This year, from a north-eastern point of view, statements from the Workers' Party in the Nord-Trøndelag, at annual meetings, in county meetings, etc., that something has to be done, now you have control, and only you send people to the Stortinget, you really have to sort this out. But nothing will be done. The rapporteur in Levanger, Robert Svarva from the Workers' Party, said to the county council meeting in the Nord-Trøndelag in March, after Jens Stoltenberg's speech, that they could just as well send the cats to the neighbor of the Stortinget. Understood: you don't do any of the world's things. It becomes very frustrating, especially for the rapporteur in Levanger, who has a large industrial activity in his municipality, Norwegian Forest. Norwegian Forest is very clear that it is now just before you have to close, if you can't get any long-term framework conditions that are good enough. So what do the government and the majority of the population do? Well, you say you should act, but nothing is done. Then the Center Party and Sande show that you didn't do much under the previous government either. It saw the bulk of the population in the previous period and referred to the Bondevik II government. Then it was legitimate enough to claim it, but to continue to claim it in this period, I almost think it's ridiculous. I hope that you can come from word to action, and that something is done about the situation that we experience in Central Norway every single day, which means that ordinary households have to pay giant electric bills, and that the industry suffers from what the majority of people don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1059	The representative, Sande, called for proposals for measures by the undersigned outside the construction of gas power plants. I can refer to what I said: ‘We say yes to more renewable energy by building more small-scale power plants, and modernisation and careful development of existing older power plants, which can provide more renewable energy. And we now expect the link between Ørskog and Fardal, with demands for cables in the most vulnerable areas, to be launched as soon as possible.’ Unfortunately, I did not want to point out that yesterday we met with farmers and landowners, who were seriously affected by the government's lifting break in the case of green certificates and small power plants. Most people are struggling today with red numbers and a risk of bankruptcy. They are asking for help from the Right, and they refer to our plans for green certificates, which were in the process of negotiating with Sweden when our government went off in 2005, so we are talking about renewable energy as hydropower. And I wonder, why did the Senter party fail in this simple matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1069	It was the representative Sande who made me speak, because he again called for action in the action plan that we believe the government should implement. I did not just say ‘maximum progress’ in the work with Ørskog-Fardal. I said that the Minister of Oil and Energy should actually set a deadline, so that people in central Norway know what they have to deal with – a time limit that is reasonable for proper treatment, but that puts pressure on the parties and gives people in central Norway a guarantee that we actually get a decision here. In my post I also pointed out the area prices. In fact, it is possible to establish a principle that area prices should correct for normal variations in the supply of power in different parts of the country, but should not be used as a special requirement in a part of the country if we have a particularly difficult situation over time, which is clearly due to the failure of the authorities. It is not right that Statnett should print the bill to consumers if it is Statnett that is responsible – or political authorities for that part. That principal pipe could have fixed the oil and energy minister a long time ago, thus giving people in central Norway a much greater security compared to the uncertainty they face in the years to come. Then we have also pointed to energy efficiency improvement, renewable energy, etc. which may have been implemented, but the paradox in this debate is that we have come so far that many of the new measures that could have been implemented, for example. of new power build-up, will not be completed until Ørskog-Fardal is clear. It is precisely the gnawing of the red-green government that has made us stand here today in a situation where it is too late to implement some of the measures that should have been implemented. Finally, I would also like to remind you that the debate we now have on Middle Norway, perhaps also an opportunity to raise our eyes and discuss: are there any weaknesses in the energy policy that have made us stand here and discuss such a situation? Because we don't just have a Middle Norway situation. The energy authorities say that we have ahead of us a potentially strenuous situation in Hordaland. Last spring we discussed the expansion of the Goliath field, where the government and the red-green majority were unable to say that we could supply Goliath with renewable energy in eleven years. It could not be established with certainty, because Statnett had to calculate whether it was socially profitable to build this power supply. So we have a Finnland situation, which creates greenhouse gas emissions, we have an uncertainty about Hordaland, we have an uncertainty in Middle Norway. Perhaps it is just time to lift energy policy and say that we need more political governance of energy policy? We need energy and climate plans that show that we keep the climate commitments without gas power plants with emissions, and we provide each part of the country safely from a 10-20-30 year perspective. It is the management of energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1082	I would recommend the representative, Mr Schervø, to join in the debate and bring with him what is being said before he speaks in such strong order as he did. I have not signed and SV who have made any reports about the power consumption in cabins. It is the Norwegian Industry that has done, it is the NHO that has done, it is the business world – that is, the Friends of the Advance Party in Business, who Schirvø himself mentioned in his article – that has run out himself. It should be clear to Schjervø before he makes any comments to greet the home state in this debate. Then I think the Right's lack of humility is quite perceptive. It may be the Storting and an overall environmental movement that has followed very poorly, but I have at least not got along with what great measures the Right did for the climate the four years they crashed the country, before the red-greens took over. How important is the climate for the Right when party leader Erna Solberg threatens to get away from some points in the climate agreement? The representative now guarantees Meling that the right is at the climate agreement. If that is true – and I really hope it does – how will Right then explain its eagerness to build more gas power plants in Norway without CO2 cleaning, for which it is actively addressed in the comments on the matter here? So where are we going to do greater emissions than that? If the climate agreement is very important to the Right, it would be thought that the Right had a clear relation to these questions before the more polluting gas power was set up. How can the Right explain the diametrically opposite positions and the position of the gas power displayed by the Party – in the debate during the supply crisis in winter, and in the last week’s Question Time, as it was suddenly important to put in place gas power purification as soon as possible for the sake of the climate, and in dealing with this matter, where, on the contrary, full CO2 management is referred to as ‘a strange requirement’ in highly negatively charged formulations? It's not related, and it can't talk right away by driving polemics towards an SV in government that's done many, many, many times more for the environment, and that's got more impact for the climate than the Right has ever done in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1097	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3356]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1113	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1122	This matter was debated less than a year ago in this Chamber, and the law on which it is concerned was adopted. The regulatory work of this law is in progress. The law has not yet begun to work. It remains to be seen how the law will work. The situation of the power-processing industry is important to our country. Power-processing industries are usually located in places where there is little other industry, we're talking about one-sided industrial sites. These are enterprises that are cornerstones of the communities where they are located. Enterprises provide jobs, create lives in these parts of the country and also generate export income for our country. For those living in these areas, it is incredibly important that businesses live their lives, that they are employment. If these enterprises go beyond the end, the whole community would like to end up. That is why the red-green government has done a lot, put a lot of work into action to resolve the power situation of this industry, in the EEA Regulation. We have come up with a guarantee scheme for long-term power contracts. We have provided for the establishment of a consortium for the purchase of power. We have increased access to power in the market. We've supported energy recovery, and we've got a rental scheme for power plants. What we see and hear now from the industry is not primarily a requirement for access to power. What we see is a huge demand failure for industrial products all over the country. The crisis is developing, and there are dramatic times in the international economy. Competitive industry is definitely at risk. What is important then is that a comprehensive and sustainable economic policy is pursued. This is the most important thing for our industry today, whether it's a powerful industry, or it's another industry. The majority government we have today is delivering in this area. We're on our way back to the 4 p.m. track, after spending considerable money on reversing the crisis in the first place. Now it's important that we get the economy on the rails, in order to support good, competitive framework conditions for the industry. The rental arrangement is a matter of course. It's not a big deal, but it's one thing. The Workers' Party's position is that a 30-year lease term will be better than a 15-year lease term. We're not hiding that. It is clear that, on our side, we will follow closely how the 15-year rental scheme – now adopted and rolled out in these days – will develop. But I think it is important that we do not exaggerate the importance of this rental system for the power situation in industry. If you are a family of children and you need a lot of milk, you make sure you get in touch with a store that has milk in the store at any time. You don't go renting a cow to get milk. That's the same thing with the force. Industry will primarily ensure a good framework for purchasing power. There are other framework conditions that are more important. It is the total economy and the quota ego that we have in relation to the industry that is important. So from the Labour Party we are not going to take a rematch on rental time for power plants today in this room. We bow to the consensus of the government in this field. We do not want to jeopardize the government's good and comprehensive policy on such a matter as this. If we get a change in the lease term, it will only become a topic – if it turns out to be necessary – after we have had experience with the adopted regime. Such a process will be carried out within the framework of the good cooperation we have with SV and the Central Party in government today. The majority's position on this matter is therefore that the proposal is not accepted. There is a setting to which the Working Party agrees entirely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1137	The treatment of Document 8:90 S for 2009-2010 is very important in an industrial policy setting. The proposal to ask Stortinget to change the rental period of power plants from 15 to 30 years may have considerable consequences for District Norway, if it is downgraded. When the hydropower in the last century was converted into electricity, it resulted in several power-generating plants in Utkant-Norway. The majority of enterprises are now world leaders in their fields. The power-processing industry is the second largest export industry in the country and employs more than 25 000 people. It is often the dominant corner stone farm in its local area. Employees have more knowledge of their products than competitors, and they mean a great deal to the employment of those parts of the country where the industry is located. The Norwegian power-processing industry produces the cleanest products in the world. Renewable hydropower means that the energy used by this industry is emission-free. An example of this industry is the production of aluminium. Chinese works emit more than three times as much CO2 as Norwegian works emit for the same production. Aluminium is a product that needs a lot of energy in the transformation from raw material to finished product. Demand for aluminium products is high in all parts of the world. Of all aluminium production since 1900, approx. 75 pst. still in use. The product does not corrode and only needs approx. 5 pst. energy for re-melting. The challenge for the power-processing industry is foreseeable costs of power and emissions. This is the industry itself that gives feedback. In the past, many industrial enterprises owned their own power plants. This has more or less disappeared as a result of the rule of withdrawal. Renting power stations with a time limit of 15 years has little or no interest in the industry. Owners of the power-generating industry are willing to invest and develop the industry in Norway, given that the level of competition is similar to that of their competitors. Companies can rent power plants from the public, but only for 15 years. This is too short a period for owners to invest in new installations or upgrade existing ones. Most power-processing enterprises have long-term contracts that expire between 2010 and 2020. In order to prevent businesses either being brought down or moving to countries with lower electricity prices and less environmental taxes, so-called carbon leakage, it is necessary, inter alia, to: the rental capacity of power plants is increased from 15 to 30 years. The representative proposal to increase the rental period from 15 to 30 years will be voted down by the government parties, despite the fact that the Labour Party’s Grand Election Programme for the period 2009–2013 states: ‘The working party will further develop the world-leading activities in competence, working environment, innovation, climate and energy-efficient production. We want to ensure that power-intensive industry is provided with adequate power, predictable and competitive power prices and the possibility of long-term contracts. We will work for the industry to have leased power plants for up to 30 years." When the members of the government coalition are still moving towards an increase in the renting period for power plants from 15 to 30 years, it is appropriate to ask how far has been made by the current date to extend the rental period. In Trønder-Avisa of 10 May 2010, it says: ‘Shall Norwegian Forest avoid shut-down on Forests, the State must put in place a State guarantee scheme for industrial power before the end of the year.’ The situation of several companies from the power-processing industry is precarious. If these holdings are to remain in Norway, the long-term conditions for energy supply must be clarified. In the first instance, an extended rental period for power plants from 15 to 30 years would be the industry required to prevent decommissioning and/or relocation. Carbon leakage is something that should be prevented. The government, which states that they want the power-processing industry to stay in Norway, should soon extend the rental period of power plants from 15 to 30 years. Finally, I address the joint proposal from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1168	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1171	There is a reason why Norway’s second largest export industry, measured in value, is the process industry or power-processing industry. It is, as we know, built on the basis of an area in which Norway has and has had a comparative advantage, namely access to energy, and that this energy has had competitive pricing. Some industrial enterprises have owned the power generation themselves and thus controlled larger parts of their own value chain. This has meant development and jobs in many communities around Norway, and this industry has contributed through generations to the development of competences and incomes of society. The right is concerned that this industry should develop further in Norway, and we want to facilitate this precisely through this proposal from an overall opposition. Energy costs represent a relatively large proportion of the cost picture of power-generating industries and by being able to extend the rental period of power stations from 15 to 30 years, it will be both more interesting and, not least, more predictable for operators. We recently witnessed that a major actor, Hydro, bought up in a mining company to secure the raw material used in their own production. It's a pretty descriptive picture that Hydro has now secured raw material for 100 years of production, but has only secured energy a few years in advance within the regime we have in Norway. This is a result of government policy, and it is with amazement I note that, among other things. The working party as the largest of the government parties is not more concerned with further development and securing Norwegian jobs. It is as the representative Henriksen and the rapporteur said that an industrial enterprise is going to end, that the community is often also going to end because these enterprises often represent corner stone holdings. The same applies to the Centre Party, when we know that these industrial workplaces are mainly located in District Norway. Facilitation of growth in this industry is also good district policy. I remember the election campaign in 2005, where the issue of the industrial power regime was an important issue, and how, in particular, the representatives of the Workers' Party were aware that such a regime was going to come into place. Now such a regime did not come into effect precisely because it was contrary to our international agreements, but in connection with the previous election campaign – in 2009 – there was a promise of guarantee schemes. But even this scheme is not yet in place. As the representative of Skumsvoll correctly referred to, it was said yesterday in Trønder-Avisa that Norwegian Forest is threatening to shut down parts of its activity if these guarantee schemes do not come into place within a short period of time. It says something about the importance of the energy component to the power-generating industry. The working party has even programmed that they will work to extend the contractual period for rental of hydroelectric power plants from 15 to 30 years. The current policy is in conflict with the Labour Party programme for this process of enlargement, and I hope that this fact is perceived by the voters around in many communities where this type of industry is located. I also hope that the trade union movement remembers this fact. Finally, it seems that the Workers' Party is somewhat influenced by having government cooperation with the Center Party on the example of the representative Henriksen used, that you need milk, so you don't have to buy a whole cow, you can just buy the milk. I would say that I think this is a somewhat superficial approach to an important issue for the power-processing industry in Norway. The seriousness suggests actions as monks, and I would encourage the Workers' Party to be involved in and support its own programme and support the proposal that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1188	It was tempting to get involved in the debate on milk and cows. In any case, it's like having a milk supply is cow. Then you're going to have an operation with it at the bottom. Norway is an unlikely resourced country. We have natural resources that give us large amounts of clean and renewable energy, and we are one of the very, very few countries in Europe that are closest to self-sufficient in renewable electricity. There are large social interests attached to Norwegian hydropower. Together with petroleum and fish, hydropower is one of our most important natural resources. The hydropower is an eternal resource, which will also be enjoyed by future generations, and the hydropower is very important for both power supply, infrastructure, value creation and well-being in our country. That's exactly why it was a very, very important matter for the Center Party to secure the Homefall Institute. The great hydroelectric power plant is heirloom, and we own it together. It is then important to ensure national control of values through local and national public ownership. The scattered public ownership of the water force is a value in itself. The municipal eight power stations are important social actors who favour both competence, capital and jobs in the regions. It was a rather challenging task for the government to create a model that ensures public control of the water force in the future. Several different considerations had to be balanced. First of all, we need to ensure that the water resources are managed for the best for eelment. The system must be balanced between the needs of the power-processing industry in Norway and the requirements we are faced with in the EEA Agreement. The centre party may be aware of its opposition to the EU and the EEA, but we have no choice but to try to create the best possible solutions for Norwegian social interests and for Norwegian industry within the framework of which Norway is part. I have to say, when I hear the opposition, I start to wonder if one has forgotten the back of the case itself. The reason why the case was reopened in Stortinget was that the obligations and obligations of the EEA Agreement, an agreement for which the opposition wanted to see. It may not be so strange that the party like the Advance Party and the Right, which initially desired to open up to privatisation and the hall of the hydroelectric power plant, desired such a development. More surprising was the Christian People's Party and the Left's hold that time. Access to clean and renewable energy is one of the Norwegian industry’s major competitive advantages, and we use the power to create silicon, solar panels and aluminium, which makes cars easier. In this way, Norwegian hydropower and Norwegian industry are environmentally friendly in several senses of the word. We must ensure that the Norwegian power-processing industry has good access to power at an affordable price, without undermining the system of returnees, and secure Norwegian hydroelectric power stations in the community's hands. We believe that the current system balances when it concerns public ownership on the one hand and the industry on the other, while at the same time ensuring exactly what I call measured, with public control. At the same time, both private and public companies may enter into leases on equal terms. The centre party would stress that the government is working along several lines to ensure Norwegian industry's long-term and good access to power. Industrial consortium and guarantee scheme are listed here. There are tracks to follow. At the same time, the production of more energy is entirely central to ensuring the availability of power to industry. This is a question that we have discussed before today, but it is obvious that the production of new renewable energy will also be with and secure the industry power at an affordable price, and not least good access to power, which is the provision for production. I know that through Enova, industry can have access to investment measures that improve the use of energy within an industrial production. Not only does it provide better results on the bottom line for the first time, it also provides long-term and viable solutions that are with it and guarantee industry even more competitiveness in the long term. The consolidation model also states that industry can have ownership in power up to one third and thus provide a basis for its own industrial production in the event of access to power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1211	Last spring, the government put forward a proposal for amendments to the Industrial Concession Act. The legislative proposal included: to permit the rental of hydropower production under detailed conditions. The majority followed up the government’s proposal and adopted a new provision in the Industrial concession law on rental and the use of the operator. It provides access for owners of developed concessionary water rights to lease power plants and associated installations. Such agreements may be concluded for periods of up to and including 15 years. The law of the Grand Duchy will enter into force as soon as the necessary regulations have been drawn up. This was also announced in the proposal. A draft regulation on renting and use of the operator has been at the hearing in winter, and the Ministry is currently working on evaluating consultation and finalising the proposal for a regulation. I'm adding that the rule can be put in place before summer. The question of how long private and public operators can rent hydropower plants was one of the issues addressed in detail at Stortinget last year. The renting proposal was debated here in the Chamber on 9 June 2009. So it's less than a year ago. I shall not dwell too much on what I said in that debate, less than a year ago, but some matters are particularly important and deserve a brief repetition. The principle of public ownership of natural resources is firmly anchored both in Soria Moria I and in Soria Moria II. From a historical perspective, it was a milestone that, in the autumn of 2008, the Stortinget legalised the principle that its hydropower resources belong to and are to be managed for the benefit of the public. This principle is ensured by an ownership structure based on public ownership at state, county and municipal level. As pointed out by the rapporteur of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, Tore Nordtun, last year, the proposition to rent out was a finalisation of the government's proposal for legislation on public ownership of hydropower resources. As I pointed out in that debate, rules on the rental of hydropower production provided for the enforcement of the consolidation model of public ownership of hydropower resources, adopted by the Stortinget in the autumn of 2008. I cannot see that there is any new argument in the proposal for a representative that is now under consideration. Good framework conditions for the industry are something the government is working hard for. Extending the rental period to 30 years has been proposed several times and from several teams as a possible measure, but there are also other considerations that need to be taken into account. Good rental opportunities need to be adapted to the basic principle of public ownership. Within the framework of the EEA Agreement, I have always stressed that there must be a balance between ensuring the owner's position on the one hand and, on the other hand, that the agreements must be long-term enough to be commercially interesting. I meant one year ago – and I still believe – that a 15-year rental scheme is fully compatible with the EEA Agreement. The rental arrangement is consistent with the consolidation model and contributes to the safeguarding and strengthening of public ownership, by ensuring that the owner has all the legal liability of the concession. There are uniform rules for all lessors and tenants. There have not been any new circumstances that suggest that the Storting should go back on the balances that were made last year. It's important that we now respect these balances, so that we get some peace around the arrangement. The Ministry follows up the Renting Act through the work of regulations on the rental and use of an operator. This regulation will clarify the guidance contained in the legal text and the legal acts. Among other things, it is more specific what is rented out, requirements for the owner, requirements for the lessee and requirements for the person in charge of the operation. The length of contracts that can be concluded is also regulated and the rules on the approval of such agreements that must be clarified in order for the rental rules to function as intended are part of the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1232	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1235	Even I have 15 years of experience in the powerful industry, and I know that the planning phase and expansion take a long time. That's why it's hard to understand that the government is keeping so tight in these 15 years. Public ownership does not change at all if the limit is extended from 15 to 30 years. The industry says it's too short a time, so everything speaks for the government in its process has really been wrong, and that you should change. When the Workers' Party in its 2009–2013 Grand Election Programme says that the party will work to increase the rental period from 15 to 30 years, is the question: Is this something that only the Workers' Party is working on, or is it also looking at the State Council and his Department in the same matter? If that is the case, can we expect an answer as to whether it is one or the other? When you're working towards a goal, it's good to know when you get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1242	My answer to the question is the same as I said in my post. I am now committed to consolidating the consolidation model and ensuring that the regulations come into place – and that this is implemented in line with the Storting decision last year. I'm not working on any alternatives to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1248	The State Council said in its statement that the 15-year lease was compatible with the EEA Agreement, but I would assume that the 30-year lease period could also be compatible with the EEA Agreement. What is my concern is that while the grass grows, the cow dies – to continue a bit in the terminology of the representative Per Rune Henriksen. The guarantee system that has been notified should come, which is not yet in place, and which Norwegian Forest now asks for and says must come within a short time, if they do not see need to reduce their activity, emphasizes the seriousness of the energy component for the power-generating industry. My question to the Council of State is whether he can say anything about when we can expect this guarantee scheme to be offered to the operators, as promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1257	Firstly, it is interesting to note that last year, in addition to other measures, the measure taken by the government to ensure that the said guarantee scheme was perceived to be a good and interesting measure by the industry, cf. the example set by the representative Meling here. The government is busy getting this in place, but there are some legal clarifications that need to be made. There is still some remaining work like this. With regard to the details of this, progress plans, etc., the representative must almost take it with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who is in charge of the matter and the further progress of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1264	Governments give the impression that industry seems to be an interesting scenario to get rental power plants for 15 years. The point is that before this legislative change, the industry could rent a lot, much longer. This is an example where the municipality of Vattenfall and the municipality of Nordland have merged into a project for 55 years, which means that Vattenfall takes a lot of the investment, but where Nordland remains as owner after 55 years. That could not have happened with today's law. What came out clearly when the Stortinget had the case at the hearing last year was that the industry thought this was an interesting measure for foreign investors, it was not an interesting scenario for Norwegian industrialists. Then my question is, with the experience you have after the government has been working on this for a year, what does the industry think about whether this is interesting? Are there any indications that some Norwegian industrial companies will consider using the rental scheme as it is now available?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1271	The last thing I think it's too early to conclude, as we're still in the poll for the regulatory work, but I've never meant anything but that this will be a supplement to other arrangements. I think good, old-fashioned and long-term power contracts based on a regular buyer-seller relationship are going to be an essential part of the way to organise the market around power and power sales, even in the future. Otherwise, I must say that in this matter it is important to bear in mind that the representative Solvik-Olsen and the undersigned have a fundamentally different view on the whole issue. When this was discussed a year ago, and with the preparations for it again, there was a real disagreement about the importance of actually ensuring this. The fight that part of us took to set up a regime – I see the time has passed, and can't explain anything more about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1278	It is quite right that there is an ideological disagreement about opening up foreign capital to invest in Norwegian hydropower. The approach of the Progress Party is that we should secure resources in Norwegian hands, but that we should allow foreign capital to be involved in sub-investing. But the ideological debate was ignored when we discussed rental arrangements, because then we accepted the premises. And then the point is, how are we going to get a rental scheme that's the best possible? It seems that there are ideological sky posters that make the government choose what someone is doing now. Then is my challenge to the Council of State: if it turns out, for example. in two years, that the rental scheme has not given any interest – let me remind you that it has actually created significant power development before, cf. Nordland and Vattenfall – and that 15 years are completely uninteresting for Norwegian industry, will the government review the rental scheme to see if they can improve it? Or is this just about ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1285	The representative Solvik-Olsen's concept of ideology sounds like it's pretty high on the four-word list. I believe that there was an ideological debate that was around these questions a year ago, was of the good of that kind of debate in Stortinget. I believe that the ideological, which is in securing public ownership around the hydropower, is also of the good, and something that I am willing to fight hard for and protect about. The reality is that we have an EEA agreement. There is no exact science of when a lease term becomes so long that it can be defined as being a real ownership and used against the arrangement at a later date. I don't want to gamble with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1292	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1297	I just have a few comments on the debate so far. I think it's a little useful to go back and see what made the debate on the industrial power regime a big deal in 2005. It was just that the Right didn't do anything for the industry at the time. We got hold of this, we wanted to do something, and we had thoughts about what to do. We've been following those thoughts and those thoughts, and we've been working hard to get an industrial power regime in place, and we're way on our way now with the guarantee system that's coming, as it's been said. Just a little comment on what's happening today. Today we have heard the opposition use examples of Norwegian Forest that express concern about the guarantee scheme. We have not heard any examples of companies or groups that are currently giving priority to spending a lot of time talking about the rental time of power plants. Hydro has just secured access to raw materials for its long-term aluminium production through the purchase of a Brazilian mining company. It's quite interesting to read the comment that Hydro itself gives in the Financial Times after this purchase, where they say: now we have stable access to raw materials at predictable prices in the foreseeable future, and – add they to – we also have access to power at competitive prices in the foreseeable future. This is Hydro's own summary of its situation in terms of commodities and power, when they express themselves to the international financial market. There is no need to accuse the undersigned of taking a clear view of the situation of the power-processing industry. I myself said in my speech that this industry's framework is of the greatest importance to the living conditions of several communities, especially in the West, and not least in Hordaland, where I myself come from. I don't take these things easy. But what I see as the most important thing is that there is a comprehensive policy to take care of the jobs, the communities and the industry that it is about. I believe that this government is doing so in a way that goes forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1310	Perhaps a short, small history of the industrial power regime: In the autumn of 2004 – or it had begun to snow, it was before Christmas – there was a demonstration train in Mo in Rana where the undersigned was also present. It was then said from an appellant – Ivar Kristiansen from the Right – that we could forget about it with an industrial power regime. It was packed in a drawer, and it was going to be there from the bourgeois side for all eternity – minus the Advance Party. That's what we were dealing with. Then it was said that we are going to deal with this matter, and we started working with it from 2004 onwards. I'll honestly admit one thing: it's been a winding road. Today, it is claimed that everything has not come into place and we will take that recognition on board: everything has not come into place. If I have not seen things wrong, it was actually so that in the election campaign now the trade movement, the LO, the industrial federations and the whole mess were very pleased that we had come as far as we had come today, it was also the signals we received from the industry. So it's stopped a little bit and things have taken longer, but at least we have a starting point to work with. You have to take that into account, and then I don't understand how the Right One, among other things. debates this matter when you were not at all prepared to lift a finger. It's actually the way that the government contracts are now broken down and divided. So it's actually so that we've never talked about cheaper power, because then it's over. But what is important to get in place is to have a level playing field for this industry. That's what this is about. It's actually about power, and it's also about other things, and that we can compete on equal terms with those we're going to compete with. So the measures are in place. We have a lot of things left over, and we have to go on working on that. I think the Council of State here has explained in an excellent way how we are now going to work further. As I say, that's not all you're satisfied with. You're not in the government either. It should almost just be missing – there are three games. Of course, I could have thought that you had a lease term of 30 years, but now it's not like that. Now the situation is 15 years old, and we have to deal with that. Then we don't have to run the howl that the industry is almost ready to fall together. Actually, it's not. We're going to use the tool that lies there, and we're going to work on that from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1327	Just before the 2009 elections, the representatives of the red-green government were all over the country, and especially at the industrial sites, and said that a power regime had now been established. It was very well received, and perhaps that is one of the reasons why we today have a red-green government – who knows? We don't get an answer to that. This is a fund, a guarantee fund, for the companies, the companies that can't pay the power they order. It's not a regime that allows you to get cheap power. I fully agree with the representative Stroem that cheap electricity never gets us as we have had before, that is quite clear. But we have to get a state that makes it predictable of power, of quantity, of price, and not least we must not impose more environmental taxes on businesses than our competitors have. Renting time on power is an important element. The industry and industry are fully in agreement that 15 years' perspective when you think about expanding, expanding an existing factory or building a new factory is too short a time. That Hydro was able to get an access of 100 years' reserve for bauxite is very good. We also see that Hydro has enough for its large aluminium mill in Qatar. In connection with that, the Chief Trust Committee for Hydro Sunndal was hardly very satisfied when he was out in today's business and said that it was time for the Minister of Industry to stop looking at Hydro abroad. In Sunndal they have a whole line, Su 3, that says, that you have plans to expand, but it hasn't been anything, maybe because you don't have access to power or capital – who knows? But at least that was the message from the Chief Trust Committee: Now something had to be done in Norway. That's what we want to do in the opposition by increasing the rental period for power plants from 15 to 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1338	A little follow-up to the line change, because ideology is important to be in charge of politics. But the Progress Party is also concerned that ideology is transformed into a policy that works in society to achieve the goals it has. What is the problem when ideology becomes dominant in this context is that to the government it appears that the most important goal is to own the hydropower, almost cost what it will cost for other actors in society. What we have built in Norwegian industry is that it has been a direct link between industry and power generation. It is often the industry that has expanded many of the large hydropower plants. I cannot see that there is a problem for the Norwegian community if industrial companies own hydropower, use it for industrial production in Norway and ensure wealth and jobs. Often they are corner stone farms. I think that is absolutely an advantage. What we see is that the government's energy policy has gone through is to remove the link that the Workers' Party has been a champion of mentioning, and that the trade movement has used as an example. Then we see that one in addition reduces the possibility that industry can be allowed to rent the same hydropower. Then this is about ideology, and one is less concerned about how the industry ends up in this situation. We've already seen a look-up in e.g. the Telen newspaper in Telemark on industrial enterprises that have closed down and moved abroad due to a lack of power contracts. The government says they have an industrial energy contract system in progress, but we see that it is not in place in the revised national budget, which was presented today. The government says they work for hard life, but we know that there are companies, especially northwards in Norway, who don't have very good time, because their power contracts expire relatively quickly. Then again, this becomes something on the government's list of jewelry that does not have any practical significance. So the representative said Henriksen that one noticed little that the industry is involved in the rental arrangement today. Yes, should one be surprised when the rental scheme has no value for industry? Then a non-calorie applies to it. It's quite natural. That's why you're sitting there waiting for the industrial power regime. The Progress Party hopes that we'll get it in place, but I think if you're going to have an industrial power regime that works, you have to make sure you get a completely different rate of expansion of hydropower. There is no doubt that the Labour Party promised in the 2005 election campaign was an industrial power regime with subsidised prices. What they get now is an industrial power regime with market-based prices. Then it's important that you also bring the rest of the policy here. Because when the government forces the industry into the power market, one should at least make sure that one got a system where one did not get the CO2 costs that the coal power imposes on the electricity price. One must also ensure that industry which establishes itself in Norway will have the CO2 framework conditions in line with what one has in Europe, and we also do not see the will of the government today. It gets too general, it gets too approximate. Also in this case, the Workers' Party has unfortunately failed in all the promises they had both in the election campaign and when they put in opposition. I find that sad for the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1362	It was a strange story that the representative Stroem came with from the pulpit, as well as the feedback he had in relation to what happened both in 2004 and 2005. I can very well recall the election campaign that took place in 2005, when the green certification market and industrial power regime were actually some of the most important issues. Looking back to 2005, it is claimed that perhaps it was one of the issues that caused us to have a red-green government rather than a civil government to continue. I fully agree with the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen that what was promised in the 2005 election campaign was subsidised prices. So, the whole period went from 2005 to 2009, when just before the election, there was a showdown that one had put industrial power in place. There is a long way to go a failure also in relation to the show list that came in 2009, when we see that today there is actually something quite different. It is very regrettable that Stroem can stand on the armchair and boast of a regime when, among other things. in Trønder-Avisa now is written: ‘It’s urgent with power guarantee’, and where a drawer club leader expires one year after the election and says that the guarantee is not in place, and it is urgent. When the representative Stroem can then stand here on the pulpit to praise that progress, it is very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1373	Firstly, I must draw attention to Solvik-Olsen when he claims that we have said that we should introduce subsidized prices to the powerful industry. The Solvik-Olsen quote I would like him to find out, because there has never been any mention of it. I think you actually would have noticed that. It's never been about it, so I have to see it. So, let's go get some Lødemeal. It's very good that you have a lot of campaign analysts in the right. But what's 100 pst. It is certain that the Workers' Party has always been strong at the industrial sites in this country. This is linked to the industrial policy we have pursued, and we also have confidence that the government will continue to pursue an active and good industrial policy. The previous government, Bondevik II, claimed that the toolbox was empty, that the market just had to take care of itself. That's what they said: the market had to take care of itself. We've tried to do something about that. We're trying to facilitate that we're still going to have a good and strong industry. But then I also said from the pulpit here – and now I'm going to say it again – that I, and many with me, are not satisfied either, because it's taken too long, and that's what we're trying to do. I've been claiming it all along. It is not true that I have said that it has been rose red in relation to the industrial power regime. No, it's taken too much time. The trade union movement, and many with them, is very impatient after we're going to put all the things in place. But the difference between Bondevik II and Right was that they were not going to have an industrial power regime. What was said from the Right at that time was that you didn't want it because you had to fix it yourself. So the history description, in the most sacred name, must at least be right in relation to what you now go out and claim. No, we said we should do something about it. That is why we have come as far as we have come. But of course, it hasn't been easy to get these things in place. It's been hard, and we'd like to admit that. But things take time, and things have come into place gradually. You should notice that. This has also been done by industry and the trade union movement. That's why we've got the trust we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1384	The representative Stroem says that the Workers' Party has been strong in many industrial communities, and that's right. But I hope that's something that belongs to the past, and that the people and the voters of these industrial communities are able to see through the rhetoric of the Workers' Party versus the results they actually deliver. As far as the history description is concerned, it is wrong to say that Bondevik II opposed a new industrial power regime. On the contrary, both State Councils Steensnæs and Widvey worked to look at the possibility of a continuation of an industrial power regime within the international agreements to which Norway had committed itself. They concluded that it was not possible. And concluding that it's not possible in relation to international agreements is something quite different than saying that we were against this. I would assume that more people in the Labour Party were also very aware that this was hardly possible within the international agreements to which Norway had committed itself. However, the Labour Party's representatives went hard into the election campaign and almost guaranteed the voters that they would set up an industrial power regime. It was really up like a lion and down like a skin trap compared to the guarantee scheme that was presented four years later, and that has not yet come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1391	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see 3356]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1409	In economic terms, Norway is a country flowing from milk and honey. The oil adventure that we have experienced since the Ecofisk field was discovered in the 1960s has made Norway what is called the world’s richest country. The eco-fiction field is with its oil and gas reserves among the hundreds of major fields in the world. Even after more than 30 years of production, the Ekofisk field has the most oil left to produce on a Norwegian base. It may look as if the words of the Scriptures apply here too: the first will be the last. The extraction rate from the field, measured in barrels of oil equivalents, has increased over 30 years from 21 to 46 pst. In many ways, Ecofisc stands as the very expression of how technological development and targeted efforts by operators and authorities have contributed to increasing resource use. Unlike many other oil nations, Norway has been able to manage its oil wealth in a way that benefits society and the population. Oil wealth today provides us with security for basic welfare services, even in times of great turbulence in the world economy. But the oil adventure doesn't last forever. There's a lot of evidence that the oil age is on the verge. Norway and other oil producing countries have reached the top of oil production and experience a slow decline in production. Many of the largest oilfields are being emptied, and oil companies are fighting an increasingly tough fight to get new reserves to cover the production losses. The pressure to open new vulnerable natural areas for oil extraction is increasing every day. In Norway, this battle is over the vulnerable sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. There are enormous expectations of what is in those parts of the Barents Sea that are now made available under the part-line agreement. Many suggest that we can experience a race about the resources also in this part of the sea. The expectations of future shortages of oil and rising oil prices also lead oil companies to find it profitable to start extracting so-called non-conventional petroleum resources. We're talking primarily about tar sands, but also about shale gas. Tar sand is a resource that has remained so far due to high production costs, immature technology, major environmental challenges, high energy use and high greenhouse gas emissions. The expectations of shortages of oil and increased oil prices have accelerated the extraction of tar sands. The paradox in the situation I describe is that the oil companies in some of the largest areas on the Norwegian base are preparing to shut down the production, remove the installations and re-plug the boreholes even though half of the resources are still on the bottom. If 30 years ago, thanks to the then rate of use in Ecofisc and other fields, we would have missed huge resources for the Norwegian community. Many therefore call for new approaches in the interaction between authorities and companies that can help to improve the use of existing fields. Taking the most out of remaining resources in fields that are already open and operational will also ease the pressure on new vulnerable areas and unconventional resources, whether you see it as a point in itself or not. It's also about big economic values for society. 1 pst. increased extraction rate may amount to up to 150 billion. kr in increased income to the country. That's enough to give, for example, free kindergarten for all Norwegian children for three years. Why is half of the oil left, and how can we allow that to happen? According to the Oil Directorate, companies are still working with technology improvements, but the technologies with the highest potential to increase extractable reserves are too little passed on in field tests and pilots. Reidar Kristensen is the head of the FORCE cooperative body, which is the oil directoratet's tool to get companies to cooperate on field pilots and technology development. He pronounces to Technical Weekly No. 8 this year that the way in which companies think has changed significantly in recent years. He says it hasn't been a single frontier-breaking development technology project in years. Kristensen claims that technology development is being sacrificed in operational fields to maintain high production and regularity. Pilots may impose a field of costs and risks. Oil companies are much less willing to take risks in the production phase than in the exploration phase. In the production phase, most of it is about minimising risk. This image is confirmed by Professor of Petroleum Economy at the University of Stavanger, Petter Osmundsen. He examined obstacles to increasing oil extraction for the Oil Directorate and stated that the large companies do not have a ‘culture to bet on this’. In the operational organisations, they are most concerned that production is kept stable. The Oil Directorate, for its part, has previously stated that the implementation of projects is slowing down following the merger of Statoil with Hydro. In that case, there is something that should call for the attention of both the Grand Duchy, the Government and the Council of State, because it was one of the points the Stortinget was most concerned about when dealing with the merger between Statoil and Hydro. Statoil is alone with 80 pst. by the operators on the base, and therefore the company's commitment to increase the degree of exploitation is of crucial importance for the whole. According to oil director Bente Nyland, it is now very urgent to increase extraction in existing fields. In the Tampen area, the Ekofisk area and Heidrun, projects must be implemented within five to ten years. If not, these resources will be lost, because when the pressure has fallen into a reservoir, it's almost impossible to get the oil back up again. In addition, it is expensive to keep the large installations in operation after the closure of normal production. Therefore, the possibility of connecting smaller fields in the vicinity disappears as the large reservoirs are emptied. For example, Uusimaa has pronounced: ‘We have to choose whether we are willing to make a significant effort in the future to invest large sums, or whether we should just foam the cream on the base – without much effort. If we choose the first, the gains for Norwegian society can be enormous.’ That's what our oil director says. The government's direct income from Norwegian pedestal fell last year to over 100 billion. kr. This is 37 pst. lower than in the peak year 2008, when revenue reached a staggering 155 billion. kr. The State oil company Petoro manages its direct financial involvement on the base and explains the fall in revenue at lower oil and gas prices in 2009 but also lower oil production. In the submission of the annual result for Norwegian pedestal, Petoro-chef Kjell Pedersen called for a power cut-off for the necessary conversion to Norwegian pedestal. The Petoro Manager believes that the current level of production can be maintained until 2020 and 1990 levels until 2030. But as Pedersen said on 23 February: «But reserves, production or investment are neither of themselves.» Norwegian pedestal is facing major challenges. We see partly strongly decreasing oil production, low replacement of the oil and the gas produced, and rising costs. Petoro has therefore arranged for a conversion of the way we are looking for, building up and producing oil and gas on a Norwegian base. The company has invited industry and the authorities to a power plant for conversion and increased extraction. The conversion must now be made, while high production and high revenues give us the power to invest in more and cheaper drilling rigs, more wells, more expansion projects and advanced extraction technologies to drive up more of the oil contained in the reservoirs. I fully agree with the Petoro boss. Petoro has given clear information about what the company wants to work with. They'll increase the volume into the big mature fields. They will support operators in achieving efficiency and cost reduction. They will press for new methods of increased extraction. They want to industrialize the development of new, smaller fields. And they want to ensure the progress of development projects. At the same time, the company has expectations that the government in the oil notification will look at the image and assess the role they and others should play in the future. Much can be said to mean that Petoro should be given an extended responsibility to ensure an increase in the extraction rate on the base. Perhaps Petoro should also be equipped to play a more operational role in ensuring tail production on existing installations with large remaining resources. Maybe Petoro can take over from the time that the commercial actors no longer want to operate. The Norwegian authorities have set the target of a five billion barrel reserve increase on Norwegian pedestal in the period 2005-2015. About three-quarters of this was intended to come from increased extraction in existing fields. So far we are very far behind this plan. The authorities have the possibility to oblige companies to realise the potential for value creation on the base. The Petroleum Act allows companies to be required to change extraction methods where it is profitable and provides value creation. Companies are obliged to explore all good alternatives. In addition, the authorities have the possibility to withdraw licences for the regular renewals. In other words, the authorities and the Minister of Oil and Energy have many tools in their toolbox to meet this challenge, which is about how to secure huge values for Norway for the future. My questions to the Council of State are as follows: How can the Council of State contribute to a coordinated effort between companies and authorities in order to increase the rate of extraction on Norwegian pedestal? Does he want to use the tools he already has in the toolbox to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1471	The representative of the Højbråten has raised an important question in his interpellation today. I must also commend the representative for having made a very good contribution. I think I agreed with everything that was said, and it's not always I've been when I've heard contributions from the Christian People's Party on this question in this Chamber over the last few years. I think what was said here now was good to hear. I am even in the situation that I travel a lot around the country when recording the oil and gas messages, and some of the references, the examples that I use, are very similar to those of the representative the Højbråtten here uses. In the same way, there is also an introduction to the debate in which I know myself very well. Increased extraction is of great importance and has great value potential. Within 40 years, the petroleum industry generated values for well over 7000 billion. kr, based on current monetary value. And when we look at today's situation around Europe, it is not difficult to see the significance it has had with regard to where Norway stands today. An important reason for these large revenues has been the efficient use of petroleum resources on Norwegian soil. This efficient exploitation has been possible through technology and high levels of industry competence, but also through the fact that Norwegian-socket players have a law that focuses on the non-allowance of resource depletion. In this way, we have developed continuously, so that increasingly complex projects are feasible. Despite a high level of exploitation, over half of the oil on Norwegian soil will remain on current plans, so the potential of Norwegian soil for increased extraction is therefore enormous when we look at the purely resource-efficient, but also in terms of the more valuable. Today's adopted plans provide an average extraction rate of 46 pst. for oil and 70 pst. for gas. For comparison, the global extraction rate of oil is assumed to be around 35 pst. So we see a higher extraction rate in Norway than in other countries, but that doesn't mean we're going to be satisfied with it. The extraction rate varies from field to field and is, among other things, depending on the reservoir characteristics, extraction strategy and technology development. A review of the reservoirs in the Norwegian continental shelf areas shows that there is a wide dispersal of the estimated extraction rate and the calculation of the extraction rate may change as new information on the reservoir is obtained. The development of technologies and changes in extraction strategies will also be able to change the estimated extractable volume and thus also the extraction rate. The quality of the reservoir varies considerably from field to field, and it is natural with these large variations in the extraction rate. At the same time, I would like to point out that investment decisions related to increased extraction are demanding and complex. The remaining oil resources in the fields are technically challenging to extract and therefore have large labour and cost resources associated with them. In addition, it is important — and essential — that projects undertaken must have a socio-economic profitability. It's both an energy cost and other costs related to taking up the last percent, which we have to be sure we have a sober relationship with. The rate of extraction on the continental shelf has evolved over time. This is due, inter alia, to: extensive use of water and/or gas injection to maintain reservoir pressure, due to drilling of much more wells than originally planned, due to systematic data collection for use for better reservoir understanding, and due to focus on research and implementation of new technologies. This is also reflected in reserve growth compared to the initial estimate given in the deployment and operational plan — PUD. By 2010, the Norwegian continental shelf averaged an increase in oil reserves by a factor of about 1.62 compared to the original PUD estimate. Petroleum resources are non-renewable resources, and a number of fields on Norwegian continental shelf are approaching halefase and shut-down, on which the representative Højbrätten was involved. In order to realise the potential of the fields, measures for increased extraction must be implemented before the field is in the very final phase of its lifetime. For the fields already over their period of time on plateaus, it is therefore a limited time when technological solutions can be tested and implemented. When the field shuts down, it may also affect the infrastructure in the area. This means that the time window for searching and developing findings in mature areas is also limited. In addition, it is important that we have control of costs. The high level of costs we have observed in recent years is a threat to investment decisions related to this important issue. Petroleum authorities are an active driver in order to maximise the extraction of the fields. All new developments are carefully assessed for high extraction and phase-in by others, often less. We also play an important role in actively following up the fields of production. Historically, the authorities, in cooperation with the companies, have contributed to decisions that have increased the extraction in the specific fields. But we want more attention in these areas from all the actors on the Norwegian continental shelf. A renewed effort in the field of increased extraction and continued strong focus on detecting and deploying new resources is important to limit the fall in oil production, as the representative, Højbråten, mentions, unless otherwise noted in the future. And that will of course be one of the themes – in fact one of the main themes – of the petroleum message that we are now working on. With regard to the specific issue of the representative's interpellation, I would like to say the following: Given that there are so many values in society that we can miss here, and that there is a need to shed light on the petroleum industry issues in the field of increased extraction from a socket perspective, I considered it necessary earlier this winter to do something to look at just the possibilities outlined by the representative, Højbråten. I then set up an expert group for increased extraction. It is a group of 10 persons with broad professional competence in the field of petroleum. This group of experts had its inaugural meeting in February 2010, and I have great expectations that this group of experts will come up with just the good proposals that can help promote the extraction rate on Norwegian continental shelf. The sample shall identify what prevents socio-economical measures in the field of increased extraction from being implemented today. In addition, they shall propose measures to remove the obstacles identified and the work of the expert group shall be a significant input into the light of the petroleum notification received by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1499	Let me first thank the Council of State for both a thorough answer and for his acknowledgment. I think it illustrates that there is a broad interest from both the position and the opposition in succeeding in the pursuit of the last oil, which this is all about. The actors have a responsibility, points out to the Council of State. That responsibility, together with the responsibility of the authorities, has given amazing results in Norwegian oil history. Ekofisk is a monument to it, but there are many other less known examples. However, Norwegian oil history is also full of examples that such results have not come without an active state — an active exercise of authority — in addition to being able to bring together different companies — different actors — to work together. It has to happen again. That's right, as the Council of State says, and as I pointed out, the potential is enormous. It is technically challenging, but such technical challenges have been overcome before. The warners are now many, from heavy players such as the Oil Directorate, Petoro and other experts, and the time window is limited, as the Council of State said. That is why we do not have all the world's time to wait for investigations and debates. There is also a need for action. I think it is good that the Council of State has taken hold of this. I think it is timely that there was a main theme in the petroleum news, but in the extension of the response of the Council of State, my question is: What kind of propulsion does he look at the work he has started? At present, and the possibilities for ensuring tail production, there is a need to ensure increased use of mature fields that otherwise move towards containment, as time goes by. That is why I am concerned to know what kind of progress the Council of State has on following the advice he now receives. I would also like to ask, in the course of the interpellation, whether the Council of States does not see that, with the tools he has in the legislation, in the Oil Directorate and with the special role Petoro has been willing to assume, he already has some mature grip to take, to ensure more oil out of the mature fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1514	Well, the representative is absolutely right, we have tools that can be used, and there's no reason to wait for a message work to use it. When I, together with the director of the Oil Directorate, Bente Uusimaa, presented the Socket Year in Stavanger earlier this winter, one of the main messages, both from Bente Uusimaa and from me, was that we should now have a closer follow-up to the licenses on the question raised by the representative Høybrätten. After all, the Norwegian system is designed in such a way that there is a partnership between authorities and companies, and we rely on the Norwegian-socket companies to demonstrate their willingness to manage the opportunities that we have when we receive allocations. The Oil Directorate has a clear mission in terms of being so close to the companies in terms of licences and increased extraction, that the companies see that if they do not follow this up, the authorities are not satisfied with the job they do on a Norwegian base. So I agree with the representative. I also believe that, in the context of the concrete follow-up in 2010, we have made a run through the Oil Directorate, which considerably reinforces this compared to the past. When it comes to the question of progress, the follow-up to what I mentioned about an expert selection is channelled through the message, which will well be dealt with in the Stortingen in the spring of next year, and it could then be effective after that. But I will again promise the representative that we will not sit still until then. We're going, as I also mentioned, to work with different actions and different tools along the way. The other points that the representative raised in his last post here now, I follow the reasoning. There's a lot of interest in getting up the last oil. It's important, because there's a lot of resources that we're talking about. I also agree that the actors have a responsibility. I believe that Ekofisk, as the representative Højbrätten mentions, is a shining example of what we have done through the involvement of authority over time. It is worth a contribution on its own what the Norwegian idea, represented by the participation and management of different parties, has contributed to the creation of value into the community and in terms of total resource use. Ekofisk is an example rather than an example of that. So I follow the reasoning that the Højbråten took up in his post, and I also believe that I have signed out the concrete with regard to tools in the cash register.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1527	First of all, I think there's a very good reason to praise the interpellant, Dagfinn Højbråten, to travel a very important matter in the hall today. As both the representative Højbräten and the Council of State have been involved, we are in Norway, in the plans adopted today, to an extraction rate of 46 p.m. for oil and 70 pst. for gas. The global utilisation rate of oil is about 35 pst. In other words, we have an extraction rate well above the average on the Norwegian base. That's good, but we can always get better, and even more important, we always have to get better. The narrowest and scarcest country north of Europe met a new industry with its peculiarity at the beginning of the oil age at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s. In the NRK’s documentary series, ‘Olje!’, we got a little insight into how the stuttered Northman met the tanned man with cowboy hat and cigars in his mouth. Two different worlds met, but together, these two initially made what has evolved into a Norwegian petroleum adventure, an adventure such as this. has resulted in what is today called the Norwegian Petroleum Management. Two initially different cultures have been shown to work very well together. When you have a common goal, you can create history. We have a good use of resources in a global perspective. We have very good standards in terms of the environment and safety of the working people in the industry. Petroleum resources are non-renewable and therefore need to be exploited with due regard. Although we are good at extracting petroleum in Norway, we have to bear in mind that about half of it remains at the bottom of the sea. It's not like you're putting these resources back for fun, or because you're weak or miserable in another way. We pick up and want to pick up as much as possible from each individual field that has been adopted. Anyway, we're talking about a very complicated field. There are major technological and economic challenges associated with marginally increased exploitation. Then it's right, as the representative of Højbräten points out, that both the Oil Directorate, Petoro and the different companies have made very clear recordings and very clear signals. I agree with the representative, Højbräten, that the interaction between the different actors and the authorities is becoming extremely important. When the Council of State here today agrees with the interpellant that there is a time window and a time perspective we have to work after, I feel that there is an agreement here on how the continuation should be. Technologically, we have taken great steps forward on a Norwegian base during the 40 years we have behind us. This is not the result of a random policy. Through Norwegian legislation, we have made demands on the players on Norwegian pedestal. We have been at the forefront in terms of environmental and safety requirements, and we are now in the process of drawing up management plans for our marine areas. Good regulation and good framework are an important prerequisite for good petroleum management in the future. We also have a history of a gradual and responsible development of our petroleum deposits. Through this policy, we have stoned stones, conquered and developed new areas as technology, experience and knowledge have allowed it. This is a sound and responsible management of our great values, an administration that today brings out much more of our fields than we did 20-30 years ago. We cannot discuss this issue without being within our big project, namely the capture and storage of CO2, or CCS, which is the term it often goes under. Today, a statement came from the government that I thought was both broad and good and clear in view of that project. So even if the project in Mongstad takes longer than we would like, the goal is fixed. We're going to catch CO2, and then reinject it at the bottom of the ocean. If we do that, this reinjection could help increase the extraction rate on the Norwegian base. In other words, we can also take care of CO2 in the future while getting a better use of resources. As you know, the government has also set up an expert group to work on how to increase the use of resources on a Norwegian base. This underlines the fact that we have worked well on this question. Finally, I would just like to stress the importance of political governance and broad political consensus in the case of Norwegian petroleum management. It's not always that what's best for society as a whole is what's best for the individual player on the base, so we also need good decision-makers and a good and forward-looking piece of legislation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1557	Once I've heard the posts so far in the interpellation, I'm really wondering why we need to take up the theme, because everyone seems to agree. But there is clearly a reason why we have not been satisfied with this from the opposition side: The celebrations you have heard have not been delivered in Stortinget. It is heartwarming to hear when the Workers' Party talks about how beautiful and nice we have been in Norway, and that we have achieved the success we have in Norwegian oil industry. This has really been a success story. The problem is that that success story ended politically four and a half years ago. The government spent 50 months before they started working on a petroleum notification at all, so that as far as the broad political consensus that the representative Sund pointed out was the basis for Norwegian success, this government has not been able to deliver. I am very pleased that the government has started working on a petroleum message, and I am really very pleased with the attitudes expressed by both the Workers' Party and the Center Party. So far, I look forward to hearing what SV has to say – whether they give the impression of a government that agrees with themselves, or whether one here gets the reason why paralysis has been the government's trademark of the petroleum policy in the last 50 months. It is a good attitude to want to make the best use of the investments made and to use the capital invested and the infrastructure built. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party signals it through this interpellation. Norway is the leader in oil technology and in the supplier industry. Norway has in many ways acted as a laboratory, because we have had framework conditions that have made it attractive, interesting, to test out new technology. We started on a bar bank over 40 years ago, but through a sensible approach, we have ensured that the knowledge that the industry had then also entered Norway, and we have been a pioneer in developing it further. That's good, and so should it be in the future. I hope that the notification of petroleum to the government provides a basis for this, because it stimulates Norwegian technology development in general and the offshore environments in particular. This benefits the entire nation, both because the value creation of oil and gas industries is important today, and because the industries we are going to build on in the future will depend on having good engineers who can compete and make it attractive to set up new businesses in Norway. When this is a relevant debate – although everyone has agreed so far – it is because one has used 50 months before one started working on a petroleum message – and thus has broken all tradition in the last 30–35 years – but it is also because this government cut in petroleum-related research in the 2008 budget and ran a rest cutting in 2009. I am very pleased with the crisis package that came to the yards, with an increase in the Demo 2000 allocation of 50 million. kr. It has been submitted today. There is evidence that the government admits that what they did was wrong. But it's sent some bad signals. If there is something we need to invest in to increase oil and gas extraction rates, there is precisely technology, and then petroleum research must be at the bottom. There have been other unfortunate signals, such as: when the Government Party governing the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Research says that they want to steer young people away from petroleum-related education. It does not help to give the signal that Norwegian petroleum industry needs to invest in Norway, to develop a technology in Norway, thus increasing the extraction rate in Norway. We should also consider in the kerosene notification how to impose licensing requirements – either to stimulate, or possibly to require testing of technology, developed in Norway, when it is useful for what we think we can achieve. Although it usually means that there will be a small decrease in the returns for the companies, it can be a big gain for the nation. There should be something we definitely consider. And then it's about the long-term policy being pursued. There are very few oil companies – and very few industrial companies in general – that will invest in a capital-intensive market with a very long-term depreciation period, if they have a feeling that the political stance is that this is something we really want to get rid of. Then we also have a return to one of the government parties, which has been driving hard in the media in the last two months that they want to phase out the oil and gas industry in the best possible way – that even the oil and gas resources that exist on the globe, we cannot extract, and there is no reason why we should look for more. An industry that feels that government is in a sundown mode will not spend much time investing in new projects and technology development in Norway. Then they'd probably rather take their capital elsewhere. I don't think the other places will be renewable energy projects in Norway, there will be oil and gas projects abroad. Norway will then miss out on important competences, we will miss out on important revenues, and we will not be able to achieve the objectives that are all agreed on here, namely to increase the extraction rate on Norwegian pedestal. I look forward to receiving the government's petroleum message for treatment. I hope it is as offensive as there is reason to believe from a few quotes, and not that there has only been another year of training that covers the disagreement of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1580	Thank you to the representative Højbräten for taking the initiative in this debate on an important topic of our petroleum policy, namely how we can increase the extraction rate on Norwegian soil. Since 2001, oil production has dropped every year, and the right is concerned that companies not only are shying away from the cream, but that they are striving to increase the rate of extraction as well. It seems that there is a cross-political consensus about it. The question of increased extraction efficiency has at least two important dimensions. One dimension is the environmental aspect. It is good environmental policy to make the most of existing fields, existing interventions and existing infrastructure. The second aspect, of course, is of an economic nature. According to the oil directorate's estimates, society could make up to 150 billion dollars. kr per percent we are able to increase the extraction rate in existing fields. We're at risk of 54 pst. of the resources remain if we do not get the extraction rate up. The Oil Directorate has stressed on several occasions that the issue of increased extraction rates in existing fields is beginning to be time-critical for some of the fields. It is therefore important to discuss what measures can be taken to ensure that operators are more focused on increasing efficiency, while it is still physically and economically feasible to take such measures. On repeated occasions, the right has called for the government's petroleum policy through a petroleum notification. In fact, it was seven years ago — when under the Bondevik II government — that the Storting had the opportunity to discuss visions, goals and strategies for the country’s main industry. The question of objectives and measures to ensure an increase in the extraction rate on the cap would naturally belong in such an overall discussion of Norwegian petroleum policy. There's a lot of talk for an interaction, that is. political and public authorities, together with oil companies and the supply industry, need to cooperate in order to find measures and framework conditions that stimulate increased extraction. The last decade has been more marked by exploration than by increased extraction rates. These policies were also precisely addressed by the authorities, in particular by facilitating tax deductions for exploration costs. The change in the tax regime has had the desired effect, and oil companies are reimbursed 78 pst. of its exploration costs. 38 companies paid 6.3 billion this year. kr for 2008, according to an interview with representatives from Petoro on the online version of Stavanger Aftenblad today. During Bondevik II, several non-tax conversions were made in order to strengthen the extraction rate on the Norwegian base. Among other things, organised for a multiplicity of actors on the base, with both small, medium-sized and large companies, inter alia. in order to ensure a longer field life and an increased degree of recovery. Furthermore, there was a sharp increase in the allocations for petroleum research, including: the focus on increased extraction rates was a theme. The question is so important and the income potential is so high that it is important that we show ambitions in terms of extraction rate, and that we are willing to turn all the stones to look at measures that can help ensure that we achieve our objectives. From the Right, I would like to point out three important elements that can help to increase our extraction rate. Firstly, the right has proposed a significant strengthening of Petoro. We were alone on this at the time of the review of the current year's budget, but I hope that a majority can stand behind this line when the 2011 budget is to be laid down. Petoro is responsible for the interests and holdings of the State on the base and the company is directly represented in several licences. Therefore, Petoro is an important instrument to demonstrate opportunities for increased extraction rates. In the same article that I referred to earlier in my post, it was also mentioned that Petoro wanted to drill 50-100 wells in each of the fields Heidrun, Gullfaks and Snorre, and believes that it is possible to obtain an extraction rate of more than 60 pst., but at the same time points out that it is essential to find more reasonable drilling methods. Secondly, we will increase the appropriations for petroleum-oriented research and development. This has been strongly advocated by the Right in budgetary terms, and I would like to point out once again that there is no better return per invested krone in research than in this sector. One of the instruments should be to contribute State resources to the planning and implementation of innovative solutions that promote cooperation between different actors across licences. Thirdly, the authorities should see whether there may be opportunities for economic incentives to increase the rate of exploitation in order to strengthen the appetite of companies to place their best minds to solve these tasks. I am recording that the interpellant keeps increasing the extraction rate somewhat against opening new exploration sites. For the Right, this is not a either–or, but a both– and. It has been many years since the authorities opened up new search areas, and the Right is committed to pursuing a policy that ensures the further development of our industry, increasing production to a world that needs more energy, and further development of our business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1612	The representative of the Højbråtten promotes an important interpellation. I've been asking for the last few months, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen said, more debate and problematisation about how we manage our petroleum resources, and it's good that the Christian People's Party is also concerned about it. There's a lot of considerations here that need to be weighed against each other. Environmental interests both in the climate sense and in the form of vulnerable sea areas, as well as the conditions under which the fish are caught on Norwegian plaice, are taken into account. My starting point is that it is desirable to limit exploration activity. In some areas, such as the Lofoten and the West Pole and Senja, the level of conflict has already become very high in seismic shooting. Exploration and drilling in these areas will be highly irresponsible and jeopardise the workplaces of the fishing and tourism industries and expose a number of species to risks in highly vulnerable areas. However, this problem applies in far more areas than those discussed in the public. In its opinion on the 21st round of the concession, the Marine Research Institute warns against oil drilling across 39 of the proposed areas. This is based on the latest knowledge available and illustrates the problem in the pressure of the oil industry to continue to open up new areas. It is therefore a good starting point to give priority to higher rates of extraction in already developed areas. And there is reason to listen to oil director Bente Uusimaa, who criticizes the oil companies for spending too much money on exploration and insufficient resources on increased extraction from existing fields. Petoro has joined this criticism. Therefore, increasing the extraction rate is correct if the starting point is to manage a valuable resource in the most appropriate way. There are, of course, very large resources, as mentioned earlier here, and an increase in the extraction rate could save us for the interventions in vulnerable areas that further expansion entails. Statoil drives 80 pst. by all Norwegian oil and gas fields, and they are therefore properly addressed for the criticism of Petoro. In addition, Statoil operates with very climate-damaging plans for the extraction of e.g. oil sands abroad. It will be better for the environment to refrain from the most expansive plans and focus on better development of existing resources. However, this case has a few more pages. Climate scientists have previously shown that we cannot extract and burn all the oil we have already found, whether we should be sure to prevent dramatic global warming. We are going to have a separate debate on this later today. Norwegian oil policy is not in a vacuum, on the contrary, Norwegian oil is part of the climate problem. We can probably not continue to extract oil in Norway until it is empty, both for climate reasons and because it prevents Norway from playing its part in future industrial ventures. Our supplier industry has an opportunity to be at the top of the world in renewable energy. If we are to become a flagship in the future green industry, we must also give priority to this in research, development and industrial development, and we must make industrial policy priorities. There was a good look at this in Stavanger Aftenblad, the representative of Høybråten's home newspaper, yesterday. We will have to choose between oil on the one hand and a renewable future on the other. At some point, we need to do these priorities, and we need to act in good time to secure future jobs. Once in a while, we don't have the big oil revenues that we now have. We have to prepare for that. In such a perspective, we cannot continue to rely on ever more oil extraction. It's another moment that needs to be mentioned, which is important. The extraction of oil in already developed fields is not a matter of concern from the point of view of emissions. The report of the National Audit Office on achievement of the objectives of climate policy states that emissions per unit of production have not declined in Norway in the last 20 years. This is primarily due to the maturing of the base. Energy consumption per unit of production is rising, and there is good reason to believe that this is being reinforced as the rate of extraction is increased even more. So there are a lot of different things that go into the matter that the representative Højbråten travels, and that makes it difficult to draw completely unambiguous conclusions, maybe with the exception of the Right. For them, there's a question, as they say, about both – and. So bold is not going to be in a matter as important as energy and climate policy. However, one thing is certain: Norway cannot be as dependent on oil in the future as we are today, and that is a perspective we must always take into account in debates on petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1638	It's not just in petroleum debates that we have to have the perspective that we can't be so dependent on petroleum revenues in the future. We must have that perspective in every debate, because this society is going to go against the low-carbon society and then that perspective must shape any debate. I think the interpellant Høybråten has taken up an important interpellation today, for to the seventh and last this is about: Are we the good administrators? Once we've drilled and found oil, we need to have a larger measure for the eye than that we're loading over 50 pst. the resources are left on the seabed when the companies re-apply the wells. This is not being good managers. Being good managers is having a bigger goal of getting more out of these resources where we are first working – also to be able to save the vulnerable areas that we have along our coast. We have a 40-year history of petroleum in this country. Yeah, it's longer than I've lived. I have always lived with the fact that Norway has been a petroleum nation. But this is why it is all the more important that this is a debate that both younger and older politicians are concerned about. It is only in this interaction that we can take the necessary steps, because there is no doubt that the petroleum history in Norway has been a story that has provided Norway with great income, which has made us one of the world's best countries to live in. There are huge resources left, says the Council of State in its contribution. It is demanding, and there are complex issues to increase the extraction rate. But my questions, when the Council of State was there in its speech, are: What does the Council of State do? What does the government do with this? So there were some points. We have more attention in this field. We have this area as one of the main themes of the petroleum notification presented to the Stortinget. I have set up an expert group in February 2010, and these experts will make good proposals that will be presented in the kerosene notification. Yes, this is fine, but when the Council of State is challenged if he doesn't already have tools through today's system, the Council of State answers to the interpellant: Yes, we do. There is no need to wait, and we follow the licensees more closely. But then my question as to whether the Council of State is willing to follow further the line of thought of oil director Bente Nyland, because the Council of State said that Bente Nyland and he had this as a main focus earlier this year. Bente Nyland says: ‘We have to choose whether we are willing to make a significant effort in the future and invest large sums, or whether we should only foam the cream on the base – without great effort.’ It was for Industry Energy. My question to the Council of State is: is the government willing to use the large sums so that this will also become the reality when we go through the different licenses? For oil director Bente Nyland's message to us politicians and to the industry is clear. I am pleased with what the representative Snorre Valen says in Stavanger Aftenblad that he sees a connection in driving better extraction where we run for then we can save vulnerable areas. But I am more surprised at the representative Sund who is drawing out Mongstad and the statement she sees as a good account in the revised today. When we read the review of this field of seismics and storage, it shows that here we need more time, here we need more knowledge, and we also get a postponement when it comes to moving on to the Johansen formation, where it was originally supposed to be drilling in 2010. It is deferred until 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1659	I think it is an important matter that Højbråten has put on the agenda today, and I agree with the Council of State that there was a good post and a lot of good points in that post to Højbråten. It has been said from this pulpit today that we have had an extraction rate well above average, and that is right. But you can get even better. If we look at the posts here today, Eirin Sund described the story and the beginning of the oil adventure, and I think it's like this -- to give honor to those who started this -- that many of us should be grateful that there were some who grasped these things and the natural resources we had at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s. Technologically, we have taken many steps in the case of Norwegian pedestal over the course of these 40 years, and the technology is moving forward. We have conducted a responsible policy, and we will continue to do so, and not least when we see what those values have meant for Norway. In the name of propriety, I must add a little visit to my good friend Snorre Valen from one of the government parties. The values we've created over these years have also meant a lot to SV and Snorre Valen. Everyone's having a good time with these resources, and when we talk about getting the budgets in place, everyone's going to spend the oil money. Then I also have to remind you that in the financial crisis we could spend a little extra oil money, because we have money on book, and we have managed our resources in a good and proper way. I think a lot of people are looking at Norway. I will mention one example of the ring-effects this has had for example. Kristiansund: In the early 1990s, there was an unemployment rate in Kristiansund at 14 p.m. After they have taken part in this adventure, the unemployment rate is between 3 pst. and 3.5 pst. People are coming back. Youth moves back. It creates knowledge workplaces. I'm not saying that oil and gas alone have solved these problems, but it's one of many legs to stand on, and we're going to continue in a proper way. So I want to take a little look back and then look forward to the situation in District Norway and on the coast. In Norway it was about 3.5 million people in 1960. In 2009 we were 4.8 million people. In my own county of Nordland, there were 237 000 inhabitants in 1960. In 2009, we were down to 235,000 inhabitants. Rogaland had 238 000 inhabitants in 1960, and in 2009 there were 420,000. The number of inhabitants aged between 60 and 69 in Northern Ireland has increased by 23 pst in recent years. The number of population aged between 20 and 40 has declined by 10 pst in the last five years. So the question is, can we do anything to reverse this trend? Yeah, I'm sure of that. There's one thing we can't at least decide, and that's where the youth is going to live. But if you manage to get to knowledge jobs, and get to a development that creates ring-effects on land, it will also create other jobs, and then it will be interesting for your youth to move home and participate in what's happening in the community. One more example. No one is going to tell me that the oil has not mattered. In the public sector, there were 278,000 employees in 1970. In 2007, there were 738 000 employees in the public sector. There has been an increase of 460,000 people, approx. 165 pst. There is no corresponding expansion in other public-sector countries. Nor is anyone going to tell me that the oil money we have had the opportunity to use is used in the public sector and that it has grown in these years. In the case of industrial workplaces, there were 384,000 employees in 1970, while in 2007 there were 267,000 employees. It says a little about the distribution in the public sector relative to the private sector. But then I say at the same time that oil alone doesn't solve these challenges. It's important that we have more legs to stand on, and it's important that we have an extraction rate, and it's important that we also look for new opportunities along our coast in terms of this activity, so that the northern parts can also participate in that activity. But we're going to do it in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1674	I want to start by thanking my co-representatives for a very important and interesting round of debate, which reveals a considerable degree of agreement that it is necessary for the Norwegian authorities to have an even stronger focus and pressure on increased extraction rates on existing oil fields. We can disagree if it's either-- or. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say: it is not at all a either-or-or. We will be open to new search areas for the future, even if we want protection in the Lofoten and the West Pole, but we cannot let this be undone no matter what we may think of the Lofoten and the West Pole. Because, as the representative Serigstad Valen said quite correctly, we cannot be as dependent on oil in the future as we are today. No, we're not going to be. We cannot allow it, because oil production is declining and will be declining with the knowledge we have today. But we have a great historical responsibility to make sure that we do our utmost as administrators of this era in the exploitation of the resources we have discovered and have been in the process of extracting over time. And here are the signals from the experts in the Oil Directorate and from Petoro are so powerful, so clear that they can't be overlooked, either by government or by mass. I wish the Council of State had shown an even more proactive view of this today, but I find that we are on the same track. We're going in the same direction. We agree that we need to have a stronger priority of this in the future, and I hope that the Council of State can confirm that he will receive the extended hand that Petoro has given, to be involved and play a role in this picture. I for my part – and now I will end – am concerned that after the merger between Statoil and Hydro, we have gained such a dominant player in relation to the issue that the necessary action is not taken unless other actors play a different and stronger role. Developments in recent years show that this is necessary. The development over the entire 30-40 year period we have behind us shows that it is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1681	Finally, I would just like to make a brief comment that I think this has been an interesting and important debate. I agree with the latest assessments by the representative Højbråten in this way. Then I would like to make a few comments. One is that I think it makes the debate a little less interesting than it could have been, when the representative Solvik-Olsen uses the term ‘action paralysis’ on oil and gas policy in Norway. If the representative had taken the trouble to see what has come lately about allocations and predictability on the base, and if the representative has captured what I have said about what we now see in some new areas of the Barents Sea, it is simply very wrong to use that type of term. I think the debate had insisted that we had seen something more about the realities and what is happening, about whether one might disagree with parts of the policy design. Then there is the representative Line Henriette Hemdal who, after producing large parts of my post – it’s nice – asked a specific question about the government and I am willing to agree that the large sums will be spent in this area. The answer to that is yes. Now that the Directorate of Oil has been given a clear mandate to enter into the licenses and to see if it is being done enough for increased extraction, it is precisely in order to develop projects to increase extraction. The type of project is definitely a project that requires the large sums. That means priorities from the companies, from the licenses, that go back to money use, resource use. So the answer is yes to that question. I also believe that there is an answer to the second question raised by the representative, Mr Hemdal, to pursue a proactive policy and be in the forefront. This is one example of that. The concrete and most effective means of getting something done is by actively and concretely entering the individual licenses, following up the companies in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1690	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1712	This debate will unduly link up with the previous debate, that is. that the themes go a little bit the same, but I have a more general perspective in this context. One thing is to discuss details of how to achieve partial objectives, extraction rate, the role of the supplier industry, etc., another thing is to give the right signals about what you want with the entire industry overall. There the Council of State, the longer he has been sitting, has given an ever more uplifting signal, at my discretion. That's absolutely something I'm happy with. However, when I have pointed out many times that the government has acted as a paralytic, it is because the signals that have been given in the media have been very ambiguous, and very little has been concrete in relation to propositions or messages to the Storting. I remember that it took the government 50 months before they were able to start working with a petroleum message at all. They are cut in petroleum-related research, although they are now strengthening it. The 2008 TFO was suspended for no reason, but the 2009 TFO was correctly implemented in a relatively good way, for major protests from some in SV. Then I'm happy. There was a postponement of the 20th concession round, but the 21st begins relatively optimistically. So there are good trends to track – it was a positive word for the Center Party, and we hope that SV also tackles it. SV's statement that a youth should be managed away from the petroleum-related industry has been unlucky compared to giving the right signals to the industry. As I said, I feel that the Council of State has had an increasingly positive tone. What I hope to confirm through this interpellation is that it will permeate the way in which one processes the petroleum message. It is important to confirm Norway as an energy supplier. It is important to focus on renewable energy. The government has not received any conflicting signals from any party in Stortinget. At the same time, it is important to look at the global energy picture that the world will face, where Norway is an important part. Norway can have an approach where we say we should meet our own needs — and enough with it. Well, then we'll be fine. We export ten times more energy than what we consume ourselves. So we can cut significantly in our production of oil and gas and so far in the production of power, without getting it worse in our nation. But as part of a bigger world, we should – and should – take responsibility. Then I would like to refer to the scenarios that the International Energy Agency presented last autumn, which show that if nothing is done from an environmental/climate perspective, the world's energy consumption will increase by 60 pst. Equally full, if one takes into account the climate scenarios, the world's energy needs will increase by nearly 20 pst. So it's not like if you input CO2 into the calculation, the world will need less energy, and you can start cutting on all fronts. It's important, and in that context, the Norwegian energy mix is going to do very well in relation to the objectives set by the IEA. It also fits very well with the EU’s wishes that the EU expressed its wish and need for increased Norwegian gas exports by April at the latest. Because in the mix that the International Energy Agency adds to the climate scenario, they say that the world is going to be able to get into a path where one is going to reach the climate targets of the United Nations, one will still have to increase the consumption of gas in the world by 17 p.p., increase the production of oil by 5 p.p., increase the nuclear power by 100 p.p., renewable energy by 100 p.p., and have a significant energy saving and significant phase-in of CO2 clean-up. None of the scenarios for the IEA therefore suggest that one should begin to phase out or cut down on Norwegian oil and gas production from a climate perspective. The IEA recommends Norway to extract as much oil and gas as possible to help achieve the global objectives. And that is what is important, Norwegian energy policy in a global perspective, including in a climate perspective. When I travel this debate, it is not because this has not been mentioned before, but suddenly we could read in the newspaper more articles by the Socialist Left Party spokesman in the area, and as he is sitting in a government constellation, there are signals that an absolutely must take seriously. The representative Serigstad Valen, who is present in the hall, is talking about throwing the «oil veil». "To avoid the climate crisis, we have to drill for less oil and gas," he writes in Dagbladet on 20 April. So we also need to provide an oil and gas message, he refers to in his statement on 6 April, where the goal appears to be to look at how we can phase out oil and gas in order to find something to live on afterwards, rather than to stimulate the further activity and energy production of the oil and gas industry on the Norwegian base. When such signals arrive, it is not free for some to become somewhat uncertain as to what is actually the basis for the government's petroleum notification. Because if we have an approach that the SV here calls for, and I know that there is a lot of hearing for some of the younger ones in the Workers' Party, we will find ourselves on the wrong track both in terms of the petroleum industry in Norway, in terms of our future prosperity, in terms of the energy picture being drawn, and in terms of the emissions that will follow. Because in my world, if we deliberately phase out oil and gas production on a Norwegian base – one thing is if the resources end, then that's not as much we can do – and if we deliberately stop looking for new resources, deliberately stop building up infrastructure, so that small and marginal fields are not being built out, then we make a conscious choice, our own. If we do that, it means that the energy production we could have had has to be covered by an alternative. The option many believe in the environmental movement is investment in renewable energy. And that may be a wish, but it probably won't be a reality, because the capital that doesn't go to oil and gas production will look for alternative investments that give a good return. If the government wants a commitment from oil and gas to renewable energy, the framework conditions for renewable energy must be more profitable, or make it more profitable to invest in renewable energy than in oil and gas. If not, the policies that are addressed by individuals will lead to capital moving from the Norwegian economy and going only to other countries that also invest in oil and gas. Then one knows that one gets more emissions during production, one has less safety during production, and the emissions from oil and gas consumption are likely to be at least the same — yes, probably greater. For the oil and gas we have on the Norwegian base, is of a quality that makes the emissions, or the content of, I kept saying, unwanted compositions, often less – a cleaner oil, simply. That is why I hope that the Council of State in this debate will be able to give some clear signals that an IEA will take note of the energy policy scenarios, that one will see the big context, that this will be about both oil and gas and renewable energy, not either – or, that one will enable the oil and gas industry to have a future in Norway where one has a perspective of more than just the next 20 years – would like to see the next 50 years, although I fully understand that the volumes of oil and gas will be reduced as a result of one exploiting the resources already existing. I look forward to the confirmation by the Council of State of our understanding of government policy – I hope understanding is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1735	First of all, I am grateful for the concern that I should be able to deepen and define the policy in this area. But first of all, I want to reflect a little on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico – I hope the interpellant allows it – also within this theme. It is an accident that reminds us that there is uncertainty and risk associated with petroleum activities. Human life has been lost, and natural values are now damaged to an extent that we fortunately rarely see. The safety of the Norwegian base is my top priority, and the safety level on the Norwegian base is, I think, very high. Both companies and authorities must have safety as their main focus. The accident we have now seen reminds us of it, and it reminds us that there is a risk associated with petroleum activity. We know neither the cause nor the final consequences of the accident. So I don't want to wonder if this event could happen in Norway with our legislation, our technological solutions and our natural assumptions. On the other hand, I am concerned that we shall take all possible lessons from these and similar events, sail if they take place in another country. The results of the investigation of the accident in the Gulf of Mexico will and will be used in our continuous work to improve the safety of Norwegian pedestal and will be part of the evidence base when we address questions about petroleum activities at different locations on Norwegian pedestal. So to the question. I am very aware that the representative Solvik-Olsen has waited a long time – and is still waiting – for the kerosene message. I also expect the representative to have a certain understanding that we are not going to reach all the elements, all the themes, and cannot go into the entire petroleum message during the interpellation debate today, but we are taking what is most important in relation to the overall entrance. I would like to start by saying that it is right, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen points out, that the analysis of the climate scenario by the International Energy Agency shows growth in the world's use of oil and gas also in a scenario that limits the temperature increase to 2 degrees. It's a correct observation, and also something that I've shown in many articles I've made. The IEA further points to instruments such as increased energy efficiency, more renewable energy, more nuclear energy and carbon capture and storage efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the 2-degree scenario, growth in fossil energy use has to be limited compared to the baseline scenario. And we're talking about a sharp reduction: the coal consumption has to be reduced by almost 20 pst. in 2030 if one is to achieve these key objectives. Let me first of all assure the representative of Solvik-Olsen that the petroleum industry will have a central place in our energy production in 2030. The petroleum industry will be our largest and most important industry for decades to come. It is going to take a lot of us, partly in the technological field, which we talked about in the previous debate in the Great Britain today, but also in the environmental and climate issues, for example. succeed in capturing and storing CO2, which enables us to reconcile the energy challenges and climate challenges in a more offensive way than we have done so far. The medicine prescribed by the IEA for the world has been implemented at home by the government, with the exception of the recommendation on nuclear power. Firstly, we are continuing the long lines of petroleum policy. At the same time, we have made a major effort to improve energy efficiency. We're not in the goal, but we've done more in this area than ever before, and we're going to keep going. The same is true of me being able to say in terms of developing more renewable energy. In addition, we are strongly committed to developing future energy solutions, with an unknown problem related to carbon capture and storage, which has been much debated in recent days, and – I would also mention – the development of offshore energy production related to sea windmills. So there is no doubt that what the IEA has of references, of thinking about this, is thinking that is also recognizable in Norwegian policy. The reality is that the world needs energy, while the world needs us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In Norway, we have now produced 40 pst. of the resources that we expect to be found on the continental shelf. More than three quarters of Norwegian gas resources have not yet been produced. In other words, there is much left on Norwegian soil, and few industries in Norway have as long-term prospects as the petroleum industry. We will continue to manage the petroleum resources well. We need to further develop our knowledge-based, long-term and balanced petroleum policy. We're going to secure the state's high incomes from the industry. We will do this by getting the most out of each field, cf. the previous debate and by facilitating the identification of the remaining findings in the areas where we want activities to take place. We need to keep costs under control, so that industry’s profitability is kept up – I believe that is a real, concrete challenge today – and we need to cope with this in continued good co-existence with fisheries and other users of the sea, and with a prudent treatment of nature and the environment. A lot of new extraction permits have recently been granted. Among the oil companies, there is a great deal of interest in Norwegian continental shelf. Last year the maximum number of study wells was ever started. The level of investment in the socket is also at a record high level. It is with some of this as a backtrace that I hope we put the term ‘action paralysis’ behind us. Swallow if these are long-term projects, we see that the sum of what's happening now is extensive. I want to explain the activities on a Norwegian base when I respond to the next interview, from the representative Harald Nesvik. However, let me already say that the government will continue to facilitate a high level of activity on a Norwegian base. We do that through new concession awards, we do it by facilitating exploration, we do it through development and operation, and through public contributions to research and development. Just research into the optimal, safe and sustainable use of our petroleum resources is important. The State's intention to invest in this area has contributed to major technological progress and significant value creation on Norwegian soil. Many major challenges lie ahead of us. Not least, the question of increased extraction, and the previous debate, is an example of this. I would also like to briefly mention the changes we have made to the appropriations for research. The 50 million. kr as the representative of Solvik-Olsen pointed out, I also see that I have been very well received in the industry, and I am absolutely sure that by strengthening DEMO 2000 in the context of the revised national budget for this year, we will see results in relation to the research activity, and in relation to the level of our research. In total, there are significant funds for research into the state budget – a total of about 390 million. kr for 2010. In addition, the rightholders use large sums, estimated at about 4 billion. kr annually on the same day. That means we have a comprehensive research and development project called Norwegian continental shelf. In order to contribute to meeting climate and energy challenges, this government has strengthened research efforts, also targeting carbon capture and storage and more environmentally friendly energy systems. For example, we have tripled the appropriations for research and development in renewable energy. In addition, I have great expectations that the competence of this industry will help us to find the major solutions that unite the challenges of delivering enough energy to a world that will need energy and the need to address climate challenges. From this point of view, the Norwegian work on the capture and storage of CO2 and working with liquid wind turbines and increasing offshore energy production are two good examples of how we need to harness the expertise in the petroleum industry to also build bridges – and to deal with technological challenges that we have not dealt with. My conclusion, therefore, is that I believe there is no contradiction between having an ambitious policy in the renewable sector and having an ambitious policy for the petroleum industry in the future. We have major challenges to deal with, both technologically and climatically, but I think it's by seeing this in context that we can solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1787	Actually, I'm quite satisfied, I. We can always discuss disagreements about the choice of the instrument. That's not what I tried to travel in this debate – it was the long-term direction, which I feel very much confirms that what the Progress Party wants is what the government wants. It's really very uplifting, because it's not the impression that's been created – especially the first years of this government's life, and before today's Council of State took the role that he has. And it is not the impression made by the Swedish government colleague SV in the media debates in the previous few months. I note that the Council of State says that the oil and gas industry should be our largest and most important industry also decades ahead – that there is no contrast between petroleum and renewable energy. I entirely agree with that. The council says that this will require a lot of us, and we agree with that. That is why there will probably be many political blows in this Chamber about which instruments we best achieve the objectives. But as long as we're in agreement that we're going in a similar direction, that's how much fun we can bring. Because I think the nation of Norway can enjoy that we're both challenging each other and testing logic and durability in the reasoning we have. I feel that I have had my point confirmed. And when we see the energy debate going on in the government, I'm glad that SV is mostly sitting on the stands and yelling, while the Workers' Party and the Center Party are playing on the government's internal football field. It's a fight I'm sure the Workers' Party will finally win, since they have the judge anyway. I don't see any point in going more into this interpellation from my side, as long as that point is confirmed. And I'm really just looking forward to the debates on both the Lofoten and the Western Sea, and the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1798	I think there is a lot in the representative of Solvik-Olsen now said about the follow-up of the more concrete – what will require a lot of us in the future. One cannot fail to meet the energy challenges facing the world and, at the same time, to meet the climate challenges, a number of bold choices must help to avoid one shadow for the other. It's going to be balances, it's going to be budget appropriations, it's going to be concrete priorities. So I also see very clearly that it is going to be under an ambition, a wish, an agreement on a long-term nature of petroleum policy. Many major decisions are to be made, and I look forward to spending time discussing this in the future – not least in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1803	Petroleum is a central energy carrier in our world, and it will be there for a very long time to come. Therefore, it is commendable that the interpellant Ketil Solvik-Olsen travels this theme in its interpellation. First of all, I want to say that I am pleased that the Council of State approach to the question of the Gulf of Mexico is as it is. There he is. Not only he, but also the interpellant, reminds us of what has actually happened down there. The Council of State is so clear on the reality down there, at what happens, that the importance of security and preparedness comes high on the agenda even when we are going to have the processes we are going to have, and that the experience we can draw from there when the answers are on the table will be important. I'm glad the Council of State said so clearly about it. Today, the world faces two major challenges. It is the man-made climate change, and it is poverty reduction. Then it is that our two main challenges are closely related to today’s theme, energy – and therefore also petroleum. When millions of people, and countries by country, are going to leap out of poverty and move on to a better life, the goods are primarily demand, energy. Historically, there has been a clear link between global energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. The big question will therefore be how to meet an ever-increasing demand for energy with the demand for greenhouse gas reductions in the future. Of course, we and the rest of the world are going to invest in renewable energy sources. In this context, it is worth mentioning, as I have done in the past today, that we have had a great deal of investment in renewable energy sources under the red-green government. But this isn't enough, either here with us or globally, to meet the huge increase in demand for energy. Petroleum and petroleum-related products will be very crucial for decades to come. There's something the International Energy Agency says very clearly, and as the representative Solvik-Olsen repeats here today. I believe that we are pursuing a policy in line with that. Historically, Norway has managed its petroleum resources in a responsible and good manner. We've moved north as experience increases and the development of new and better technologies. This is the step-by-step and knowledge-based development of our petroleum resources. I'm proud of this way of managing as valuable resources as our oil and gas resources. We have managed to reconcile initially cross-cutting considerations, such as environmental and fisheries considerations, with the exploitation and harvesting of our petroleum resources. In addition, we have ensured that a significant proportion of the values have fallen to us all through a combination of taxes and taxes — but not least with direct state ownership of resources. This has again made us one of the richest countries in the world, and perhaps one of the world's best countries to live in. We can provide our citizens with a school and health service, and we can give our citizens a security in everyday life, which many other countries can only dream of. Our natural resources and their management have given us the food on the table and have also given us the welfare state of Norway, as it looks today. Then I can't push myself to remind the interpellant Solvik-Olsen of his own party in terms of this matter. Then I think of Carl I. Hagen's proposal to sell Statfjord in the 1970s, or the Progress Party's kneel for the oil lobby in the tax question in the early 2000s. The Norwegian people and the Norwegian community would have been hundreds of billions of dollars poorer if what the Progress Party wanted at that time had become a fact. We will continue the knowledge-based and step-by-step development of the industry. It is a policy that ensures new search areas and new areas for industry at a steady and responsible pace. It is a policy that ensures and ensures the further development of Norwegian jobs, a policy that manages to combine the world's demand for energy with a responsible and ambitious climate policy, a policy for the capture and storage of CO2, a policy that guarantees the CCS project at Mongstad – which I think the government has had a good account of today in the revised national budget – and a policy in which petroleum resources will benefit us all in the future. So the petroleum industry is not in any sunset mode, nor are we going to phase out the oil industry. And now we also have a lot of possibilities with the divider line. When we are surveyed both the resource base and the natural values, there can also be great opportunities for the future in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1834	I note that the inter-pellant is satisfied with the approach of the Council of State to the fact that the oil and gas industry will be the country's main industry for decades to come, and that there is also no contradiction between a renewable energy investment and a further commitment to petroleum-oriented activity. That that is the starting point, the Right is also very comfortable with and sincerely hopes that it is also the starting point for the kerosene message that the government will deliver to it. For it is true, as has been said, how the world's energy needs must be covered in the future, that fossil sources will have a significant share in the next decades as well. When we keep this energy demand up against the greatest threat of our time, namely climate change, we know that Norwegian oil and gas production is perhaps the most environmentally friendly in the world, with emissions of 60 pst. below the global average. This means that it will never be a solution that Norway reduces its oil and gas activity on the base, because if we reduce our production, it would be replaced by other countries’ production, which will be much more polluting. Therefore, a commitment and further development of Norwegian oil and gas production are also positive in view of the environment. I would like to thank the representative, Solvik-Olsen, for addressing this issue and looking at the petroleum industry in the future in a slightly more comprehensive perspective. Clearly, we are talking about the country's second-largest industry. We are talking about an industry that – as we were confirmed at the latest today in the context of the revision – is expected to account for about a quarter of the country’s income this year through taxes, taxes, dividends and the country’s own holdings. This sector represents 50 pst. of export income to Norway, accounting for about one quarter of all investments. More than 200,000 people work either directly or indirectly in this industry, and these people live almost in all the municipalities of the country. It says a little bit about the significance of the industry for the nation. In addition, Norway is an important energy supplier to the European market, and that means that we also have a great responsibility for how we manage our energy resources in the future, also in view of the responsibility for energy supply to our neighbouring countries. It is of vital national interest how this industry develops further, and that our authorities actually have ambitions and a direction for this industry. So far from the Right we can only note that the Red-Green Government, with the Working Party at its head, has not been able to present its own kerosene message. The right is concerned that this creates considerable uncertainty about the future of Norwegian oil and gas industries, taking into account the challenges we face, including: on the climate issue. Delaying the notification of petroleum is also a contribution to increasing the uncertainty as to which environmental strategy Norway will choose in the future. Now a kerosene message has been notified, and the government's signals say we have reason to expect that this could be debated in Stortinget in a year's time. But this inaction, or to say the administration of the country's main industry, is allowed to continue while we still have major challenges. One of these we just discussed in the previous interpellation debate on how to increase the extraction rate on the Norwegian base. Another fact is that the production of oil on a Norwegian base is on its way down. In ten years' time, the amount of Norwegian gas resources will fall significantly, while we know that global energy demand will increase. The right considers that Norway needs to further develop its role as an energy nation. Another important discussion is how to ensure that industry has access to new and promising exploration areas. The right is clear in its policies in this area. We have ambitions on behalf of the petroleum industry with a desire to facilitate the national extraction of the potential of our resources in oil and gas reserves, but also build on the competences of both oil companies and the supplier industry. We want a development, and in particular we focus on the opening of exploration areas in our northernmost part of the country, both outside the Lofoten, the Western Sea and in the new sea areas that open after the borderline issue with Russia has been resolved. The right considers that there is an urgent need to get on the road, explore the resource base, further develop cooperation with Russian actors and set high standards of activity in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1853	I feel a certain co-responsibility for Solvik-Olsen’s interpellation – and he nods affirmatively. However, the fact that SV has called for an early termination of our oil production is new to me. It is rather the Progress Party that has begun to believe in its own scare images. What I and many others have raised is a debate on the question: What are we going to live on after the oil? How are we to ensure a good transition to the renewable society? In this context, I have said that it may be time to lay down a plan for when and how this should happen, and how the business should be stepped down. Moreover, lower extraction rates are not a new debate. The central government of 1997 had this in its government statement. Even then, the Central Party had the Minister of Oil and Energy. As I have seen in previous debates today, the world must leave large parts of the world's fossil energy sources in the range of two degrees. So large reserves of coal, oil and gas have already been discovered that the two-degree target is detonated if everything is to be extracted. In fact, less than one quarter of the occurrences already detected may be burned if the two-degree target is likely to be reached. There is often an argument in this debate that Norwegian oil and gas should be cleaner than other fossil energy, as the representative Meling repeated in his post now. However, estimates show that although all emissions from coal, non-conventional oil and deforestation are stopped immediately, there will still be no room to consume all other oil and gas reserves found. Therefore, claiming that new oil or gas findings will shift more polluting energy sources, as if world energy consumption were flat and static, is not a sustainable argument. In the past, in its campaign against the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen attacked the use of so-called grey-sonic literature. It is therefore small ironic that the representative himself constantly refers to World Energy Outlook, as if it were a fasit. The representative Solvik-Olsen uses the so-called World Energy Outlook climate scenario as a recipe for the energy balance in the world in the years to come, despite the fact that the World Energy Agency itself informs that their so-called climate scenario involves approx. 50 pst. the probability of exceeding 2 degree temperature increase. It is possible that the Group of the Advance Party seems durable to throw heads and coins about the world's climate future. Even more representatives of the Progress Party believe that climate change is not a problem. But for us who live in reality, and as the Solvik-Olsen rightly points out is a government party, are not such odds good enough. All reasonableness suggests that we need to cut emissions more than the IEA climate scenario has foreseen. Therefore, the pressure of the representative Solvik-Olsen for ever more oil extraction rests on a failing basis, a failing basis based on grey-sonic literature; an academic genre he himself has been very critical of in this room earlier. But when we first discuss World Energy Outlook, there's reason to correct the Solvik-Olsen a little bit too. In the so-called climate scenario, gas consumption in the EU, Norway’s leading gas market, is reduced by 2030. All the richest parts of the world, Norway's main oil and gas markets, need to reduce the consumption of coal, oil and gas in order to achieve climate change targets. So in a world where the consumption of oil, coal and gas has to go down, it's worth asking the question, who's going to cut, and who's going to get extracted? In 2050, 20 years after the perspective of the Advance Party, we're going to release 85 pst. less greenhouse gases than we do today, according to climate research. Only in the world of the Progress Party is it so that this does not have consequences. Is it given that Norway, the country that is rich, the country that has all the conditions to convert to new energy and industrial ventures, will have the right to exploit more, while poor countries with oil will be held back? Why is this a debate the Progress Party is afraid of? We can't pretend the oil lasts forever. How this transition is going to happen is something the Progress Party should embrace and not run away from. It is often used as an argument from the Progress Party and the oil lobby that every six kroner we spend on the state budget is an oil crown, and it has been used as an argument against my plays in this public debate earlier. But that just confirms my point. In 50, 60, 70 years we don't have the sixth crown of oil. We're going to find it in other ways, and we're not going to focus all of our efforts on fossil energy now. In the end, of course, the Progress Party is trying to create the impression that there is a division between the red-green parts, that we are three different parties with three different opinions. It's natural. It's very comfortable, too, as long as we run the country, which the Progress Party has little experience with. The little experience they have with it has led to national meetings of the type a couple of weeks ago, where, in reality, FrPs are threatened with exclusion. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1872	Few doubt that oil and gas will be an important part of our energy production even in 2030, not only in terms of the number of barrels of oil or cubes of gas we produce, but also in terms of the export of Norwegian technology. I don't think this debate has been hurting by a slightly wider approach. One of the most important things from Norwegian petroleum history is how Norwegian technology development was ensured in the 1960s and 1970s. Then I also believe that it is an undeniable fact that the strict environmental requirements that have been imposed on Norwegian soil and the introduction of the CO2 tax have prompted the development of technology that is becoming increasingly sought after as the environment and climate rise on the international agenda. The IEA scenario, on which the interpellant is concerned, says something about a high demand for oil and gas for decades to come. That in such a picture it is foolish to close Norwegian cranes, of course. We all have these reasonings, such as: is that in West Africa, emissions per unit of production are five times higher than those on the Norwegian base. Nevertheless, it is a little difficult to follow a comment that more production on Norwegian soil makes you think about it again in West Africa and say that no, now they are increasing in Norway, then we are not opening here. The world's energy needs are so great, the search for resources is so intense that it's more correct to say that what can be extracted is extracted. The debate on oil hunting in increasingly vulnerable areas, the extraction of unconventional oil, is not strange. But Norway operates in this picture. We manage an extremely valuable technological competence. I share the wish of the full interpellant that these are technological environments that will have things to do with also in 2030, which will generate great values in 2030 as well. In fact, I believe that one of the most burdensome tasks we politicians have today is to ensure that all the technological skills we have are used in the best possible way. However, it cannot be an end in itself that the greatest possible amount of this technological competence is to be used for petroleum-related activity. A lot of it will be, and it's both a wanted and wanted policy. The councils have thoroughly explained how we work for it. But I'm one of those people who think it's good when, for example. Aker Verdal uses his chassis technology to develop chassis for sea wind turbines. The amazing thing here is that petroleum technology has so enormous transfer value for new forms of energy. What the Progress Party never talks about is that the IEA also announces a paradigm shift in the world’s energy supply over 40–50 years. It is going to happen regardless of how Norway positions itself. But we have enormous opportunities precisely because technology development is becoming more important and important for countries that want to position themselves as an energy nation. The renewable energy market is different from what we've been used to until now. Today we actually export energy in the form of casks and cubics. But when a renewable installation is up and running, energy production is almost free of charge. It's those who have technological solutions to sell, who are going to be winners. That we have heavy environments on relevant technology, I believe is much more important than that we have a lot of wind. So many today have spoken about the fact that the extraction rate on Norwegian pedestal is high – very high, also in international context. If we increase or decrease it, in the name of honesty, we have little to say for the world's climate accounts. I think that is something that both those who claim that you should shut down the cranes tomorrow, and those who believe we should pump up as much as possible for the sake of the climate, should take over. It has something to say for our business structure. It has been discussed today whether it is either – or in relation to oil or renewable energy. Of course it isn't, but the warnings we're now seeing about a variant of Dutch disease, where other industries are being priced out, are something we should take seriously. So I would like to say in the end that if the Advance Party had guided Norwegian petroleum policy, – as the representative Sund had in mind – would have been sold Ecofiically. I am quite convinced that the ten oil bids would have looked different, and I think we would never have seen the degree of national control and technology development that we see today. I also allow myself to claim that we would have seen little to environmental requirements and no CO2 tax. I have no problem understanding the petroleum industry's desire for access to virgin areas. It's natural. But it is my belief that both the petroleum industry and other industries serve the cautious approach we have had throughout the Norwegian petroleum history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1897	The last two speeches in this debate have well confirmed why I needed to raise the debate. But I'm concluding, after all, that the inserts represent only a noisy minority and are not government policy. So I'm not going to go into it any more. So to claims that have come forth, of Statfjord. Have we given away all Norwegian resources by allowing Eni to extract from Goliath? That's not what this is all about. Norwegian wealth from the oil and gas industries is about taxing this industry, that we still have control of the resources, even though we have caused others to extract them. That was Carl I. Hagen's point in the 1970s, when he suggested that Norway, which then lacked capital, should not take the risk of having a company that invested in extraction itself, but that others would have to take it. That doesn't mean you say no to tax this project in line with everyone else. That is why today I want to write a letter to the Council of State confirming how much of the value creation from Statfjord is really about production, and how much is about dividends. Because that's what you have to compare with – dividends in relation to invested capital. So here both the representatives Marthinsen and Sund have bad arguments. In the case of tax issues at the beginning of the 2000s, that is the same argument there. This is not about reducing the tax burden on ongoing projects, but it is about reducing the tax rate in order to make unprofitable projects profitable, and thus getting them realised. There is something quite different than losing money on it. With regard to the argument of the representative Serigstad Valen, I record that Marit Arnstad – on Twitter – has not accepted to be used as a truth witness to the claims of the representative Serigstad Valen. Then it's a little strange that he's trying to drag it up here. As far as world energy consumption is concerned, it will increase regardless of the scenario. So both the representative Marthinsen and the representative Serigstad Valen: One will have to look at – if this increase comes anyway – how to cover this? Will it be coal or gas, or will it become renewable energy? If you take gas away from this equation, it's more likely that coal will have to replace it. So emissions will increase no matter what you claim. So for grey-sonic literature. That is an argument – which Snorre Serigstad Valen should soon bring with him – that I am using in relation to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. For the climate panel itself claims that there are only peer-reviewed reports on which they are based. So it's based on their own claim that I'm saying what I'm saying. EU gas consumption should be reduced, says the representative Serigstad Valen, and therefore argues that Norway can reduce its gas production. What he has not achieved — and that is what the IEA says very clearly — is that the IEA expects the EU's own gas production to be significantly more reduced than the EU's gas consumption. Ergo: EU import needs are increasing. That is why I said why Norway should sell more gas to the EU. Should not this be the case, I am sure that Norwegian gas can be transported anywhere in the world and sold to customers there. So I see that Snorre Serigstad Valen unfortunately did not have the facts with him in his line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1914	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1930	There have been high expectations from the shipbuilding industry and a pressured coastal supply industry to the draft revised budget for 2010 presented by the government today. Many are probably disappointed today, as there is nothing here that the government has not already launched through the media. What I have now promoted will only meet to a small extent the major challenges facing this industry. I have followed the two interpellation debates that have been ahead of me. It is instructive to be able to follow the debates that take place in other fields and in an area that is so important for the industry along the coast. These two previous inter-pelling debates have in many ways formed the recording of my own interpellation, which is precisely based on the consequences of the policy being pursued. What's important when you conduct an interpellation debate, when you put an interpellation on the table, is that you're also open and searching to see how we can move on. That's why I haven't concluded in my interpellation what to actually do, but I'm playing the ball over to the council to get some answers. I'm not going to hide that I've tried to get the Minister of Industry on the job in some of these cases over and over again, both through questioning and other things. Of course, it is quite right that this field is the Minister of Oil and Energy who rules, but these things go very much on the other side. That's why, unlike the previous one, I'm going to try to draw us down a little bit to the concrete level, that is. not look at the oil and gas sector from a bird’s perspective and from a global perspective, as we have done so far, but rather look down towards the shipyards, down against those shipping companies – the offshore facilities, the shipping environment, etc. – which is now facing the really big challenges. For approx. 80 pst. of what has been the supply of orders and the activities of coastal shipyards, has been linked to the oil and gas sector in Norway. So the oil and gas sector is the very bearer of what is happening in the yard industry along the coast. In fact, the number of offshore vessels in the North Sea/Norwegian Sea has been relatively constant in recent years. Much of the increase we have seen in the fact that we have taken new boats from the shipyards, especially in the area of anchor handling, in the area of city-ships and other offshore vessels, has happened abroad and not in Norway. In other words, this is precisely what shows that if we are to also increase the growth and use of these vessels in Norway and in Norwegian waters, we need to look at new areas, new search areas and other ways of doing these things. We have also seen in the last few days, one of the last days, that even in the courts that are working on rigging, the order books are about to be emptied. In this respect, I would like to refer to Technical Weekly for a while back, where, among other things, was an interview with Statoil’s group director for Norwegian pedestal, Øystein Michelsen. He stressed that the Norwegian supplier industry had to change. It's over in the queue of major expansion projects, he says." Yeah, I totally agree with that. This is a major reason why the yard industry too has to change, because everyday life is going to change. I hope that a good system and good industrial workplaces will be put in place in Norway related to renewable energy. That's going to be a great opportunity, but then we also have to make sure to put the framework conditions in place to get it done. But as we have also heard in the debate that we now have behind us, in the two previous interpellations, there is every reason to ask ourselves the question: Don't we have more to pick up on a Norwegian base? Is it not possible to open more fields, in areas that are not open today? It is a little strange — after hearing this debate — that at least from the industry itself some areas have been identified that they believe can be the most profitable in the future, or at least where you want to look. Then, of course, we see the Lofoten and Vesterålen, more in the Barents Sea, more outside Middle Norway etc. Then it's time to make sure that you get ahead of work to get a search activity in place, get in place the investigations you need, and not least be able to solve the internal disputes in the government. It is strange to hear the debates before this – in particular the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, who is trying to talk about the reality of other parties. Sometimes I think it might be nice to look a little bit inward, and not just beyond, when you're going to explain the situation. It's obvious that we're going to meet more of this in the future. I want the Council of State to answer a few questions. As I said at the outset, I actually want an open debate. My first starting point or question to the Council of State is this: Is there any possibility, in particular, of looking at what is involved in tail production, to see if there are other ways of using the tax system? We see that more and more fields are now falling into production, there will be more marginal production. Then it's important to use the tools that we have, related to doing more with production. Then there might be a reason to look at our tax system – whether it's optimal, to make sure that we have as long production as possible in the fields we're already in. Although it is often that when we have a high oil price, it is itself an incentive to extract as much as possible. But there may also be reason to look at the tax system. Furthermore, I ask the question: does the system we have today work, optimally, related to the withdrawal of licences if they are not used, or can we have something to pick up there, so that companies do not get on licences without using them, if others are interested in starting business? Furthermore, I ask another question, and it's about skills building. One of the things that comes out in the same article in Technical Weekly is that in the transition phase we're in, we need to build up our skills. Then we have to have time, resources and opportunities to put in place that skills building in order to move on. My question to the Council of State is, of course, to what extent do you now agree to play on teams, i.e. cross-ministerial, to look at the kind of competence that we need in the future? I expect that both the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Knowledge here need to get together to see what we need for the future. It may be within the renewable field. It may be within the oil-gas sector. But not least, what challenges are we going to face in time? Then there's another theme that I also want the Council of State to come up with. It's obviously the use of domestic gas, because we have to look at our own domestic market if we're going to get more activity. It is strange, then, that the revised national budget presented today has put in 10 million. NOK to the Swedish Road Administration and said that these 10 million. where appropriate, the crowns may be used for four gas ferries in the West fjord of Northern Ireland. They shall not be ringed. The question is whether, through environmental requirements and other incentives, we can also provide for technology, technological development and, in particular, the use of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1962	For the implementation of the debate: if no more than those who have already signed up to the President's list join in, the President will propose that the debate be held before we pause.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e1965	A brilliant suggestion – I'll try to talk fast, and then do mine. The interpellant raises a question that, in my opinion, is important. I am concerned that people should have safe jobs and good wealth, no matter where in the country they live. The oil and gas business we see is a formidable driver compared to just that. The financial crisis and the subsequent decline in order to access orders have caused many enterprises to have low levels of coverage. Therefore, there is an understanding that the Norwegian supplier industry is concerned about this situation. I heard the representative, Nesvik, use the word "tub" in a way that meant a great deal of experience. I must say that many should be satisfied today. Through our RNB, we have specified our yard package, which was very well received. We have today, together with the revised, presented the proposition on the Gudrun project, which is, of course, a policy in practice in relation to what we are talking about. I'll come back to that a little bit. But no matter how much we get in relation to different extraordinary measures, it's the same thing here – making sure we have activity. The fact that, after 20–25 years, we have got the Gudrun field up today in the Council of State is, to me, a major and important event, and something that I also believe the yard industry in Norway should and – I think also – know to rejoice over. Investments in the last few years in the petroleum industry have increased sharply and are now at a very high level. In 2010, we expect investments for more than 136 billion. kr, of which about 26 of these billion are expected to come from exploration. We still expect large investments on the base in the years to come. Acquisitions for the operation and maintenance of the fields are expected to remain at a high level in the years to come. This means that the total demand facing the supplier industry by operators on the continental shelf is likely to remain high in the future. We also see projects that were previously pending due to the financial crisis coming further and approaching the implementation phase, with subsequent contract awards. It is also positive that the international deliveries from the Norwegian supplier industry have shown significant growth in recent years. The international market outlook is good for many of the segments in which the Norwegian supplier industry has shown itself to be competitive. With this in mind, future benefits for the supplier industry as a whole are positive. There is an important innovation in this, because there is no doubt that individual companies in the supplier industry – and that is what I perceive the concern of the representative Nesvik is, rightly, about – still facing a very demanding order situation. I fully agree with the description that the representative Nesvik has there, both of what is actually happening, and the consequences of it. Many companies are struggling because of the segment in which they are inside, for time too little access to new work and with the associated need for conversion. There is also a situation in which this is something that I, even if what I said now, should be taken with the greatest seriousness. I want to contribute to a high level of activity, I want to contribute to facilitating innovation and conversion. The total extractable petroleum resources on the Norwegian base are calculated at 13 billion standard cubic metres of oil equivalent. Of this, approx. 40 pst. produced. About one quarter of the resources have not yet been discovered and constitute a major potential for exploration and development. Just as I started by saying that it is the same thing that over time contributes here, and that there is access to work more than individual measures that contribute to the activity of the yard industry, I believe that good and regular access to the search area is necessary to ensure further activity on the Norwegian base. As the responsible State Council for the petroleum industry, I – and I believe that it is actually also appropriate – want a high search activity on Norwegian soil through two equalised concession rounds. The numbered rounds are normally held every two years. We are currently in the process of implementing the 21st concession round on a Norwegian base. The proposal for blocks is currently being consulted, and there has been a great deal of interest from oil companies in this way. The entire 307 blocks are nominee, and I think it's a pleasure that companies look at Norwegian pedestal as interesting. The allocation of new blocks for this round is planned in spring 2011. The 20th concession round ended in spring 2009. In the round, 21 extraction permits were granted. It's a high number compared to the previous number of rounds. In January, we granted 38 extraction permits in the 2009 TFO. A total of 275 authorisations have been granted through the TFO scheme since its launch in 2003. Through the TFO system, we have annual allocations that contribute to smooth exploration and predictability of the industry. In the hearing opinions of the companies on the TFO scheme, predictability was just mentioned. In February of this year, the largest extension of the TFO area was measured in blocks since its inception in 2003. In total, 63 blocks or parts of blocks divided by the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea existed. The blocks are available in 2009. This is done in order to respond to the inter-pellant’s questions, in order to ensure an attractive search area for industry and to facilitate new findings, new developments and new activities. The assumption of activity is that it is found. The trend in number of exploration wells has been increasing in recent years. In 2005, the launch of 12 started in 2008 and started at 56. This was a new record when it happened. Never been drilled more exploration wells than last year, which became a new record year. Then 65 search wells were started, and 72 ended in the course of the year. The scan has produced results. During 2009, 28 findings were made. It is also a record number and was an increase from 2008, where 25 findings were made. Commercial findings will contribute to investments and expansions on the base in the long term. In order to ensure future activity and production, the government also contributes to the resupply of petroleum activities. When presenting the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, the government announced that we would start an opening process in the sea areas around Jan Mayen. However, it takes time to carry out such an opening process, since a comprehensive survey of environmental and resource conditions is to be carried out before any proposals for opening are promoted for the Storting. We are currently working on this opening process. The overall management plans for the marine areas lay down environmental and fisheries conditions for the petroleum industry. We are currently working on the update of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten/Westerålen. After 40 years of disagreement on our maritime frontier with Russia, political agreement has been reached on the boundaries between the Norwegian Government and the Russian President. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I am very pleased that we have also found a solution in the East and through the divider line issue in the Barents Sea and the Pole Sea. On Tuesday 27 April, Norway and Russia signed a declaration on the border areas between our two countries. In the past, we called this a controversial area, or we called it essentially the disputed area. The signed declaration expresses a political agreement between Norway and Russia on the demarcation. A treaty on the demarcation shall be signed at a later date. The size and the Duma get this into ratification. Before we do anything active in this area, the demarcation agreement must be signed and ratified by both countries. Then it would be logical to map this area. Each country determines when and where and how to map possible petroleum resources. The process will follow common procedures, as is done on other parts of the Norwegian continental shelf. I have also stated that the government will present a new big message on the whole of what I have now talked about, i.e. the petroleum business. The message will take into account exactly what is the theme of this interpellation, and which I have now affected, i.e. the access to a new area and the possibility of getting concessions, blocks, etc. But I also want to come back to the Storting on exploration and concession policy concretely through this big message. In any case, we provide for high search activity on Norwegian pedestals through the concession rounds. We're doing a search activity that has resulted in that we've never had a higher level than now. The investments are high in industry, and together, in my opinion, this gives a positive picture in the future. While the activity and investment are high, we maintain and balance environmental, HMS and co-existence with other industries. What we are left with in conclusion is that as an engine for the industry in Norway, the oil and gas business is doing a formidable job. Also in these times of crisis, we see, as the interpellant notes, that we still have some holes, some areas where the order access is not good enough, seams with an oil and gas business at a high level. This is precisely why some action packages, some individual measures, are needed to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2007	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that it is not possible for the Council of State to capture all the questions that I had in the interpellation, which he may have written down on a note. But I'm trying to make a couple of small recordings. One of the most important things you're facing is competence. Competence from the maritime industry is something you are very afraid of right now, because signals are coming back and forth – especially from the shipyards – about a future word-drier that can come. The current year is not a problem, because many of these offices have full order books at least out of the year and maybe out a little in the next year. The problem is that there are no new contractions, and that makes you afraid of what's going on. It is clear that the closer you get to the date when your yard, or your workplace, may start to be threatened, the more you start to seek out other areas, and then, in fact, valuable competences may be lost. That's why I asked the question whether you don't want to sit down at least a little bit together and look at what's going on about nutrition, education, energy and the environment, to look at what we can do and contribute to. Because on the competence side, only 8 million have been added. kr to the internal part of the audited business. And I think we should look at other things too. The councils themselves were involved in what was involved with the dividing line. Yes, many of us were very happy when we heard the result – that we might reach agreement. Now I might use the word because it's going both through this house -- I think it's going relatively well -- and through another body, the Russian duma. I think we should have it in place before we finally release the cheer. Otherwise, there's a lot of positive in the state council. Yes, we know that there's a lot of search activity, but part of what I talked about in my post is related to new areas, in order to get the yard bit, i.e. boats and offshore vessels. Because what's happening today is that you use the structure that you already have, in the areas in question, so that there are little new boats, including, that come out. It is also obvious that some of the vessels in the North Sea are beginning to be relatively springtime – although there is a lot of modern in that area as well – so that you can see whether a part can be renewed in that area as well. There is one area that I also look forward to, and that is the communication related to framework conditions. I think that's going to be an important matter for this big business, so I hope it doesn't take too long before you can put it in place. Then you don't get away from my question related to the use of gas, e.g., related to ferries, related to short sea shipping. There, I think, a more offensive position needs to be adopted, because it is also an environmental project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2022	It is quite right that the interpellant said that some questions were asked that I was simply not able to answer, but I am going to take them now. They're on my note. The questions are relevant and good, they. The first question was tail production. There we have actually had a separate round today about getting more out of the fields, partly through increased extraction, but this is because one is also able to get the fields to last longer. In connection with the oil and petroleum reporting work, exactly what is going on is increased extraction and tail production, which for me is at the very top of the list of things we have to do. So I'm positive with that. I'm a little more concerned if we in the political environment now turn the debate into a question for and against tax change. The reason why I want to warn you a little bit about it is that I think it is now important to focus on the technology and cost track. We now need a lot to make sure to keep the pressure on the cost increase on the base to be controlled if we are to succeed in getting more out of our fields. I don't think it's right to signal that it's now in a way that the authorities, through more favourable tax arrangements, are going to enter in and help realise this potential. Now it's the companies that have a responsibility to make sure that, in addition to interesting licenses with good development potential, we also take responsibility for finding technology, reducing costs and also increasing the lifetime of the field. The revocation of licences is a question that I will definitely look at in the message. There is a relevant issue as to how long licences may remain unused. Just Gudrun, as I mentioned instead, is a good example of that. Here's a field that's been lying for a very long time. If we had waited longer with it, if we hadn't had a pretty interesting winter in order to get that project in place, we would have lost the opportunity to connect it to Sleipner and use the infrastructure there and also from there to Kårstø. The project might never have had a carrying capacity, because the costs would have been too high as a result of a weakened infrastructure. Now we get to the opposite. Now we experience that we get Gudrun as such a small mini hub in the vicinity of Sleipner, with the opportunity to work out of it when we're going to do other work on if possible even smaller fields around there. Competence building: On my way around – now it’s probably a nine-ten consultation I’ve been on about the kerosene message – I would say that issues of competence are what I’ve found most in the process. I thought about it at least, but if I look at what I've heard of posts, and what I've seen of engagement along the way, then it's just competence that's been most prominent. We have to deal with it, and the kerosene message has to become an arena for the issues of competence raised by the representative Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2037	Our computer system doesn't work exactly as it should, so the president would say that we need about. 15 to 20 minutes to conduct this debate. The President proposes that we conduct the debate before we pause. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2040	The maritime industries, as most people know, are very important to many communities around the country. We who live along the coast may know better than others. There are an incredible number of people who have their daily work in the workplaces linked to businesses that are the result of the petroleum activity taking place on a Norwegian base. This is one of many reasons why we have to face a predictable and safe policy regarding the management of our petroleum resources. In the previous period, the Stortinget dealt with two management plans. We had regular concession rounds and TFO assignments. The interest for Norwegian pedestal is good, but this industry, just like many others, notices the global financial crisis. In the time before us, we will bring a kerosene message to the Stortinget and revise the 2006 management plan – a revision that will otherwise be based on professional knowledge and responsible analysis, which is fully in line with the knowledge-based and step-by-step approach we have a good and long tradition of having in Norway. Good management plans are very important for the petroleum industry and therefore also for the maritime industries, for they are the ones that constitute the framework for the activity of operators offshore. The management plans ensure long-term and predictable framework conditions for all actors involved, for the fishing industry, for tourism operators, local communities, maritime industries and the petroleum industry, to name a few. The plans ensure the much-mentioned coexistence in practice. As I mentioned earlier in the article, the global financial crisis has created new challenges for not only this industry, but almost all entrepreneurs around the world. Although some in the opposition may have a tendency – I feel – almost to believe that it is the red-green government that is responsible for everything that is wrong, I know that most of the bourgeois politicians in the opposition also agree that it is wrong to claim that there is red-green policy that is responsible for the world's financial crisis. The truth is that the government in the financial crisis that we have had has acted responsibly, actively and predictablely by ensuring that in Norway we have Europe's lowest unemployment, despite the crisis. The main reason for this is that you've had order in the sewing industry and have led a good economic policy, which has been very important for the maritime industries as well. We are affected by the crisis, and we are very dissatisfied as long as there are involuntaryly available hands in our country. But by basing the situation and putting it into a global perspective, we have achieved a relatively good situation in relation to other countries. The government has been active in its counter-cyclical policy and has used oil money in line with the rule of action, as the situation suggests that we should do. We have put in place schemes that have ensured and strengthened the financing of Norwegian exports through a strong increase in the GIEK framework, while export finance received a significant increase in its loans from the state. It has been an important instrument for offshore manufacturing, as a large part of industry’s turnover is in international markets. We've also done something about the permitting rules, which have been adapted to the situation we're in. This government doesn't sit and wash inch eights. On the contrary, we have also brought a yard package, for approx. a week ago. We have also been able to put in place the historical agreement – which is not quite complete – in the context of the divider line, which, when one is given a map of the resources and natural values that may lie there, can provide great opportunities for the maritime industries to enter into the future. The sum of predictability in the framework and the specific actions addressed to the financial crisis make us prepared to meet the challenges ahead. This does not mean that the journey continues without obstacles and challenges. The point, however, is that the red-green government has managed to reach agreement on important and challenging issues, while at the same time we are not standing back to pursue an active industrial policy when required, so that, after all, we are well equipped to meet the future. But the most important thing in the process is that we're still keeping order in the sugars, and keeping order in the economy. That's perhaps the most important message we can give to the maritime industries as well, that we are the guarantors of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2061	During our 40-year oil history, Norway has built up solid expertise on the various aspects of oil and gas activity. One of the prerequisites for building this competence is probably that we didn't start at zero when we found the first oil, but on the contrary was a nation with significant maritime competence, as a result of, among other things. the fishing industry and our large merchant fleet. The maritime share of oil and gas industries is significant both in terms of employment and competence. It is also part of the supplier’s picture that offers great opportunities internationally on the bases of other countries — and makes use of this possibility. We see that not least in Brazilian waters in these times. Although the picture is large internationally, it is important to have a domestic market that is both demanding and growing. This helps to further develop the core of what is our foremost competitive advantage in this area, namely our competence. A further development of competence depends on new challenges and on authorities that impose strict requirements that make the technology front move, preferably in combination with demanding customers, such as: wish to reduce the level of costs. Requirements include development, new industrial opportunities, jobs, value creation and income to the country. This industry does not need requirements alone. This industry may need more than anyone else an active policy to open up new, promising exploration areas that will ensure that seismic surveys and other monitoring tasks will take place, which will ensure the realisation of new projects and require deliveries such as both construction and vessels from Norwegian maritime offshore industries. Here, the red-green government with the Workers' Party in the head has had a view of the Right that is far too relaxed, so relaxed that they do not even have the power to present their own petroleum message that reflects ambitions, goals, strategies and measures to ensure this important industry predictable framework conditions and new search areas. Right-wing desires include: participation of the northern part of the country in the development of petroleum resources, including within offshore maritime groups. This is a part of the country with many communities characterised by relocation and job losses. They should be able to grow through an active petroleum policy and to offer young people a future at home in their own country. This industry depends on continuity. I have visited several places in North Norway and several environments up there and have seen with my own eyes how important the local actors think it is to build skills in the region. Competence development is not an off/off switch, it is something that has to happen continuously, over time. This competence will in turn be the basis for companies and industry to see the light of day and to develop in the northern part of the country. For the right, opening up oil exploration in new fields is an important strategy option. Norwegian cap must be the most attractive area for the development and testing of new extractive technologies. By gaining continuity of activity northwards, we will provide the best framework for the necessary technological development. State efforts in the field of petroleum research must be stepped up and increased efforts must be stimulated by the oil industry. One of the instruments must be to contribute State resources to the planning and implementation of innovative solutions that promote cooperation between different operators across licensing boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2076	It is clear that there has been a tough and tough day for the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and that the debates have worn out. Yes, because even the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen does not take the floor in an oil debate, so I think you are reasonably worn out after what you have been on. It's interesting to see that too. I also see that the Christian People's Party shines with its absence. It's just like that once in a while. I would like to thank the Council of States for their good feedback on some of the issues I have raised. The councils indicated that he would come back in the kerosene message, but also in other matters, to what has to do with competence building. I think that's going to be very important in the years that are coming in order to meet changing framework conditions and other ways of working, so that we can eventually make use of the very competence we already have, and further develop it. I also believe that being able to sell our skills to other nations and in other waters can be very important in the years to come. Furthermore, the Council of State has been concerned with the issue of tail production, even though he disagrees with those who have signed up for tax purposes. We'd better look at it again in the next round. I'm going to accept that if we get anywhere with what's going on with the technical part and the way we're working on it. So I'm positive into it. When it comes to revoking licenses that are not in use, I actually think it might be important, because it has to do with positioning, it has to keep the pressure up, and it's going to be very important in the years to come. Then it is not possible to jump under the chair that a report has just been prepared for the trade union Leaders, which indicates that one has now come to the top in the oil industry, and that it may now begin to go the other way, and that in fact as many as 35,000 jobs may be gone if one cannot open up for drilling in the north and elsewhere. We'll see how long it takes. It goes without saying that development is probably working towards us in the long term. At least we have to use the possibilities we have there today. I'm looking forward to giving us more opportunity to discuss this, and that all parties are involved. It's going to be exciting. Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for its positive response.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2091	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is done. The President thanks for the cooperation. The meeting was cancelled, and a new meeting was set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2130	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line after the speakers who have the floor within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2139	This Document 8 proposes the development of a comprehensive communication on the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. The background to the case is that the majority of enterprises in Norway are small enterprises in private ownership. The proposers suggest a number of changes both in the level of taxes and charges and on the control page. I want to return to the individual suggestions. It is a joint committee that sees it as both important and forward-looking to provide a good framework for business in Norway. Therefore, it is also crucial to take into account the input from industry itself and to be open to learn from the relevant successful reforms in neighbouring countries. A single committee points out that the purpose of reporting, regulation and business form is to contribute to the enforcement of laws, regulations and administrative provisions. A central part of the legislative work must therefore pay attention to developing simple and well-thought-out legislation that can help to achieve this objective. In addition, the Committee believes that, in order to strengthen the necessary follow-up of commercial activities by the Governing Boards, it is still necessary for the Governing Boards to continue to pay attention to whether the benefits of new requirements are proportionate to the cost. In the innovation message, St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009, An innovative and sustainable Norway, announced the development of a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. This work is in progress. In support of this work, a strategic advice for small and medium-sized enterprises has been set up to provide input and advice on this cooperation. This Council is also well under way in its work. One of the proposals in today's Document 8 is subject to the audit obligation and to the reduction of the capital requirement for the establishment of a limited liability company. This work is also under way, and it is also stated in the Soria Moria II Declaration that share and accounting law should be reviewed with a view to simplification. The audit obligation for small enterprises is currently out of hearing. So here, too, there's going to be work on the cause. In August 2008, the Action Plan Time for Innovation and Production came. This plan contained more than 120 measures to reduce the administrative costs of enterprises. A follow-up to the action plan was presented in a report on 5 February 2010. The report summarises the results of the update on the use of resources by industry and presents the status of simplification work. So the work is in progress. In this context, I would also like to point out that, in order to take account of the smallest enterprises, the action plan stressed that, if possible, all new legislation should differentiate between small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. This government has also reduced the inheritance fee. The tax on wealth has also been reduced to reduce taxes on wealth. In addition, we changed red-green it so that different property objects were treated more equally, and we greatly reduced the bets and raised the point of entry for the free amount. The overall level of taxation and tax evasion is one of the main factors in keeping living in Norway evener than in many other countries. Tax revenue goes to the community, to the well-being of all. When there are reporting requirements, I will refer you to the letter from the Minister as well as to the matter that we will deal with later today, and that this work has also been started. Where it is submitted that the Competition Surveillance Authority is to be released from political control, a request must be made for Section 8 of the Competition Act to be read. It is clear from this that the Competition Authority is not subject to political governance. In this context, I would like to point out that competition is not always the right tool for achieving important societal goals. The market alone does not concern the distribution of welfare. The market has to be governed, and that's what the financial crisis has shown us to the full. In the Committee's comments, there is a proposal to introduce'sunset legislation'. This means that laws, regulations and administrative provisions shall automatically be repealed after a certain period of time. It can be reasonably heard in many ways when you get a continuous review of all the laws and regulations. But at the same time, it adds a lot of extra costs to society. In 2000, a clear majority in Stortinget concluded that this would cost more than it tasted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2172	I understand from the case rapporteur that all simplification in the country of origin is going well. I hear other things, too. The representative and the majority refer to the fact that the follow-up to the simplification action plan was presented on 5 February of this year, but nothing is said about its content. But it actually shows that companies are still using over 50 billion. kr on its administrative costs. The level has been there for a while, and that's what the report says. It says that the level is stable. Stable basically means that things don't change. Does the representative, Heggø, think this is going fast enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2181	In the plan we presented 120 different measures. Some of them have been started. But I agree with the representative Fleet in one thing, that all the simplification work must go on continuously, and we can never say we are happy or done with that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2186	Of course, the purpose of your own big message is that we who are sitting in this room will be able to attend and discuss this. The aim of the whole proposal for a representative is to want a report here, i.e. a big message, so that this can be discussed on a broad front. But the representative used his entire article to claim that it and it had caught up with the government in their various strategic selections and recordings etc. When does the Stortinge get it to be treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2191	Work on the creation of a strategy plan is under way, as the representative knows. The Storting is not coming as a big message, because it is a strategy that is being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2196	So that is to say, with regard to the very desire of the representative to have a wide-ranging debate on small and medium-sized enterprises, the representative can show that there is a strategy plan that is coming, there is no big paper, and therefore it is not certain that the Storting will get it under consideration. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2201	It's not about having a big message about it. The majority are opposed to what the representative has probably got. It's a strategic advice that's taken down, and it's actually very broadly represented. There are people from business, there are five business organisations and LO. That work is already started, it's started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2206	For many enterprises, both large and small, the level of taxation is a heavy burden. Property tax is something an enterprise carries with it all its life, to say it like that, and is a great burden. But when it is a generation change, the inheritance tax can be a very heavy burden. It does not sound to the representative as this is a problem, but out in real life this is a major problem for many, especially in the case of generation change. Has the representative not noticed anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2212	This government has actually reduced the wealth tax, and it has a lot of brands. There are many fewer people who pay taxes on wealth now than before. But that doesn't mean we're in the goal. We have said that the overall level of taxation should be at the 2004 level. That's what we're going to do. But a redistribution can still happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2217	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2220	The background to this proposal was to provide the Stortinget with a wide-ranging opportunity to discuss the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the most important of Norwegian business. Of the NHO member companies, 95 pst. small and medium-sized enterprises. We can look at our neighbouring countries, we can look at the EU and elsewhere – they create strategy plans, they make notifications and they are just discussing the framework conditions for these companies on a broad front. But now we've just heard the representative Heggø as point-by-point indicates that here we're working, we've looked at this, here's a strategic council working. The problem is that these things are mentioned as examples, examples that may be the basis for including in a big message that this will have to discuss. We were told by the line change that there are no plans for Storting to deal with this. You talk about a strategy. The Labour Party representative could confirm that here and now. I hope, of course, that the Council of State can say something else in its article. The fact that there are no plans to come to Stortinget to discuss this on a broad front shows exactly the importance of this proposal. Reference is made to the strategic sample and how broad it was. Then it is interesting to read the letter from the NHO to the Committee, where the NHO writes the following: ‘A separate notification to the EEA concerning small enterprises could have more positive effects on industrial policy.’ And they frame up several points. As far as the form field is concerned, I have to say the following: What has happened to Altin is very positive. That is a positive contribution. It's a contribution in the right direction. But we have to make sure to speed up a little bit, because it takes too long. With regard to the strategy to reduce the form field, it's so late that if you're going to achieve your own goals at the pace that's now, we're going to talk about 30 to 50 years before you get to that point. Yes, if you want to get on with the EU – what the EU outlines with its reduction in the form field – the goals we have set will be very small. This proposal is not a proposal to create problems or to ensure that permanent positions are locked in the Stortinget. No, it's an open invitation to get a message that we can discuss on a broad front. A message is prepared by the government, so it is the government that in its communication will consider what you want to take as a starting point. But that gives the Storting an opportunity to stand ready for its previous decisions and to be able to give some signals about the direction in which we want to go. And it gives a signal to business, so that business knows what they're dealing with, and a signal to the founder, who when he goes in and wants to bet on a field, at least know that here there's someone who's really committed to what he's doing, who's going to make sure that the framework conditions are there, and that the framework conditions are there, because at least you have to expect that the Storting with its composition will signal the direction you want to go. I am a little disappointed with the government parties, because too simply one rejects the proposal and refers to their own strategies and their own advice and selection. It is not the same as the Storting as the body, as the highest elected body in this country, being involved in and discussing this. It's about vitalizing this hall. It's about showing that we're actually assuming that the most important thing about Norwegian business is small and medium-sized enterprises. And it's about us taking on board that in everyday life there are too many of these small and medium-sized enterprises out there that have to spend hourly on this form field, and use day after day to be able to answer the individual questions that are coming, and to be able to organize themselves in such a way when the company is going to inherit, that not the entire family's economy is going to end because you can't afford the property tax. I am referring to that proposal in the position promoted by the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2242	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2247	Like the representative Nesvik, I can join the desire for simplification with all my heart. It's like making sure that we have a set of rules, a reporting set that is adapted to the business out there, must be a continuous process of administration. Basically, I feel that it's way on the way. Simplifications have been made, work has been reduced in industry under the red-green government for reporting purposes, and in forms on which to report. But I would at the same time admit that there are certainly further simplifications that should be implemented. That's why it's important to focus on it. But when I hear the representative Nesvik, I'm a little surprised at the Progress Party, which is a party that doesn't want any bureaucracy. Is that the simplification, or is it the message that is the goal? My starting point is that we know so much about simplification that we can go straight to the goal: just to exercise simplification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2254	If you know so much about simplification, I'm very surprised why you haven't moved on. Why is it still the case that in private business many annual works are used to report? Why is it that one has to send several forms to different types of instances, which are not even coordinated to simplify them? Why is it that we still have a wealth tax that causes very many people to have major problems with the generation change of businesses? If the representative of Aasland is so sure that what you've actually done is so good, why is it that business says it's going too late – we need more? And if the representative of Aasland goes into his own statistics, he sees that there's very little government has supplied recently, except for what I've already mentioned. The ALTIN system is very good, but we have to develop it further – and it goes too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2261	I feel that it might have gone faster, but there are extensive systems, and that should also be the basis for the simplification to which it is added. I feel that's what the government has in focus. I also believe that using business, as the government is actually doing in the simplification work now, is more important than having the big, wide debate in the Stortinget. The tax on wealth is a clear point in terms of red-green regimes. The tax system is also very clear, at the 2004 level. There may be re-priorities within that level of taxation; there may be adjustments. However, making a simplification issue into a debate on taxes on wealth is also particularly sought in this context. I ask again: is it right to use investigative capacity and bureaucracy to make a big message where we can use business to point to simplifications that matter? Is that what the Advancement Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2272	I can immediately say that then one has done at least more constructive things than putting obstacles in the way of business. In fact, it is better to spend time on simplification, so that business can benefit from it, rather than getting new orders, new reports, which make it more difficult for them. So my answer is yes, it's actually worth spending red tape on resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2277	During the previous line we did not get a response as to whether it was simplification, or whether it was the message that was meant to be. But does the representative Nesvik think that the form field is getting smaller by introducing a sunset law? What will be the correct time frame for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2282	No, the timeframe could be a problem because it's the red-green government that rules. That in itself is an inhibitory factor, so I understand that the representative Heggø is afraid of the time perspective here. When it comes to sunset legislation, it's important to have it in place, because then you actually have to do some thought experiment behind the laws and regulations that are applied, just to make sure that you have to take a review later to see if they're adapted to the reality we're in. With regard to reporting requirements, I would just like to point out that through Document 8:15 S for 2009-2010, the Progress Party promoted 21 simplification proposals. But what's meant to get this message is just the signals out to the business community – make sure to get a broad review, make sure that we think through the decisions we make, make sure that we signal to the founder that yes, here it's important to bet, and we're going to stand behind it. The problem is that here we go down into the trenches, and we make sure that the Storting, as the country's highest elected body, does not participate in and discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2291	When it comes to the time frame, of course, I meant the time frame of the sunset laws. I assume that the representative knows what he himself has proposed. My question was, how long does my representative think it's reasonable that it should be? So I have another question. One also proposes infrastructure funds in this matter. The Bondevik government had much lower targets than this government for national transport plans. We have increased targets, and we have met our national transport plan. Why didn't the Progress Party use power, when they could actually do it in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2301	First of all, the government hasn't fulfilled its national transport plan, so where did the representative come from? Then you have to go in your own paperwork, and if you look at the number of kilometres of road being built, you actually have a big problem, because maintenance delays are increasing considerably. You have difficult problems because you don't have enough for the infrastructure. That is why we are proposing an infrastructure fund, with framework conditions that go beyond time, so that it is not always changing. Therefore, a fund, so that you have a return on it. As far as legislation, legal paragraphs and sunset legislation are concerned, you have to look at what kind of area you are actually doing. The whole point of getting it assessed is that we need to review at all times the laws and regulations that this country introduces, so that they are adapted to reality and not presumptuous time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2308	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2311	Small and medium-sized enterprises account for the main weight of Norwegian business and are important growth engines in the Norwegian economy. It is sad that the government sees no need to do anything to improve the framework conditions for these companies, that the government parties passively refer to the action plan, Time for innovation and production, a plan that was already mentioned by the industry when it was presented as little ambitious. Unfortunately, the industry got it right, because when the government's press release arrived on 5 February of this year, it showed that the costs incurred by enterprises in the form field are stable. It is time to eliminate anti-business competition such as form fields, high excise duties and high levels of taxation also in Norway, as many other countries have done. Internationally competitive framework conditions for the establishment and operation of small enterprises should have been taken into account here as well. In the right, clear targets need to be set for the reduction of the public reporting volume and the number of forms imposed on business, and we find it very regrettable that the government will not promote a big message for small and medium-sized enterprises, which could have more positive effects on industrial policy. By systematically studying the challenge of small enterprises, a few answers to the importance of these enterprises’ contributions and at the same time provide the basis for an even more accurate formulation of industrial policy. This is important, as it is in the small and medium-sized enterprises that a large part of the values are created. It is important because three out of four Norwegian enterprises are generational enterprises that form the backbone of Norwegian business. It is therefore completely wrong when entrepreneurs who have worked hard for a long life to build up the family business experience that the inheritance fee destroys the possibility of passing on the work of life to the next generation. The right will eliminate the inheritance tax on generational change in family holdings, and we will remove the property tax on working capital as these capsize enterprises for capital and prevent innovation. Studies show that small enterprises can use five to ten times more resources than larger enterprises to meet public information requirements. This shows that previous proposals from the Right to cut and simplify reporting requirements and complex legislation have been justified. The same applies to the need to remove the audit obligation and simplify the share law for small enterprises. The representative proposal that we are discussing here today had earned a better deal. It would have been positive if the government parties had supported the proposal in the case, and thus took into account the small businesses in front of what seems to be a government principle, namely to reject all the proposals that come from the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2335	After hearing the representative's posts, I am left with a strong wonder why the Right did not do anything of what the representative now mentions, when the Right had the opportunity to do it in government. It must have been either that the Right did not mean what they now believe, or that they had no impact in the government constellation of which they were part. But I'm not going to bother the representative asking about that. I would like to ask: With the production and the hostility to industry represented by the government, from the Right's point of view, isn't it a little strange that we are actually the country with the highest employment and lowest unemployment in Europe, and not least one of the countries where most new jobs have been created in recent years? Isn't that a little weird?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2342	First, I would like to comment that ‘Simplify Norway’ was an initiative taken when the Right sat in the Cooperation Government. With regard to the taxes on wealth, for example, we stepped it down in our 2005-2006 budget, and our intention was to move on with it. But as the representative also knows, the red-greens have ruled after that time. As far as employment is concerned, I think the red-green government was given a great boost when it came to business and jobs. I sincerely hope that they will be able to carry it forward, and that we will not risk increasing unemployment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2351	I also try the representative from the Right with the same question I asked the Progress Party instead, but I did not get any answers. Does the representative Røbekk Nørve think that the form field is getting smaller with sunset legislation? And what will be the correct time frame for this sunset bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2358	Now, I guess I'm not the one to say it's going to make a difference. But the important thing for us here is simply to get a big message where we can get all the pages and all the possibilities to get regulated just the form field. With regard to the question of the infrastructure fund, which was mentioned in advance, the Right also has a fund of 50 billion. NOK, which we believe will be a very good part of the maintenance of roads in the future. I hope that the government can follow up on this as well. It's useful for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2367	I almost have to ask you one more time frame: what kind of time frame is there on this sunset bill, for which a clearly still exists? It was also one in 2001, but was severely downgraded by the rest of the Stortinget. But how long does the representative see it to be? Talk to you in five years, ten years or 15 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2372	Such projects as this usually have to evaluate, so that's what you can come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2377	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2381	It is positive that proposers look to SMEs, because it is a very important part of Norwegian business. Small and medium-sized enterprises, like all other enterprises, depend on a stable and responsible economic policy. In contrast to many other countries, Norway has pursued a policy that ensures that we manage well through the financial crisis. When we see the economic problems affecting enterprises in other countries, there is reason to enjoy the situation for all enterprises in Norway, both the big ones and the small ones. But the crisis in industry is not over. The government just presented a package of measures to facilitate the situation in the maritime industry. Those who know the maritime industry know very well that there are very many small and medium-sized enterprises that would have had problems if we had not taken action to improve the situation in the maritime industries. The government is also busy with the ratios that apply to small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. The Innovation Communication warned that the government would develop a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. As part of that work, a advice has been created for small and medium-sized enterprises, where those who feel the problem on the body sit and have direct contact with the government. Proposal providers are concerned with simplifying reporting requirements for small enterprises. It is an area in which the government has taken action, for example. in the Innovation and Production Action Plan. But enterprise policy for small and medium-sized enterprises is more than simplification, and we should not forget that. Innovation Norway and SIVA are important industrial policy tools, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises. Infrastructure, networking, support schemes and access to risk capital have meant a great deal to these small and medium-sized enterprises. Most of us know small and medium-sized enterprises that hadn't been there today, if it hadn't been a good tool. Nevertheless, when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, we have made it easy to forget the tools. Finally, I would like to raise a question that many people forget when they talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is education and research. Studies show that training of relevant workers in a region is the most important element for launching new enterprises, both small and large. It is therefore important to have a good working environment between enterprises and educational institutions in the region. If we get relevant education, it's the best thing we can do to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in a region. It is also important to develop structures that allow small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from research. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are highly skilled. Very often, they are highly skilled companies when we talk about small and medium-sized enterprises. A small group of engineers and economists breaking out of a larger enterprise, and networks where both small and medium-sized enterprises have a good relationship with research institutions, may be one of the most important things we can have to strengthen innovation, and thereby also the capacities of small and medium-sized enterprises. If we are to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises, we must not forget skills, education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2397	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for a very good contribution. I can stand behind so to say everything that the representative Holmelid said. We discussed an interpellation here before the break about what has to do with the importance of competence and interaction between enterprises and the school environment. My questions to the representative are as follows: Why is it so important that the Storting should not discuss this in the light of a communication on small and medium-sized enterprises? Why does it feel that this is something the government should only take care of, and that we should not take such a broad debate in this Chamber? Why is that important? That's the one. So to another question, the representative Hegø made a number – which I think is very positive – that you have reduced the wealth tax. I ask myself whether we have reduced it, or just changed it, and they also said that they were considering going further with it. How much does the representative Holmelid think we should reduce the property tax in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2406	When it comes to the first questions, it's striking that there's always a lot of talk about a message, and not about the content of the policy we're talking about. Here we have a number of opportunities to discuss research, and we have a number of opportunities to discuss education that is relevant for small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact that there are just questions about a communication, not the concrete content of the SME policy, shows that this has clearly become a hotbed for the opposition in this matter. When it comes to the level of taxation, that's not what we have to consider when it comes to the conditions of competition for small, medium-sized or other enterprises. These are the total framework conditions we have to look at. Since we have so high employment in Norway, we see that the overall framework for companies in Norway must be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2413	It is possible that we have to interpret it so that the SV and the government will ensure that there are no changes in the property tax, as opposed to what the representative Heggø said in his statement. I think the representative has trouble realizing that this is the highest elected body in Norway, i.e. that it is this body that is the granting and legislative authority – that is, it is not the government. I think it's okay to bring it into the process when the Stortinget – as the representative says – talks about getting a message. The size is the highest elected body, and that's what decides to implement laws and regulations. My question to the representative is this: Does the representative think that Stortinget should preferably be a body that should only deal with individual matters and not discuss a comprehensive policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2422	The bigger picture is going to have a holistic policy, and I would like to remind the representative that the majority in the Stortinget are in charge of this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2427	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2430	It is important to build on the businesses we have and to ensure that new businesses establish themselves. The best tools that can be used for this are to provide good and stable framework conditions over a long period of time. The government is developing a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, as announced in the Innovation Communication, which has been discussed here today. An active business is essential for the continuation and development of the welfare society. Enterprises with many small and medium-sized enterprises offer wide scope and diversity in business and ensure jobs and value creation in the future. This involves a wide range of instruments, such as research and skills enhancement, access to capital, simplification and red tape. Investment in infrastructure is a fundamental part of a comprehensive industrial policy aimed at contributing to the realisation of people’s opportunities. The Council of State in its letter of reply indicates that the government will return to Stortinget with the results of the work being done. Then all the parties will have an opportunity to debate this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2439	The Christian People's Party has noticed that the government is working on a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, we do not just want it sent when it is finished, but we want to be there. We want to have the work presented to Stortinget in the form of a big message, and I think it is a pity that the government parties are so negative about this. It should be in the interest of all parties to have a thorough review of the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. We want, as I said, to be involved and influence. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal for a large-scale notification of these enterprises. It is in the small and medium-sized enterprises that a large part of the values of our country are created. Three-quarters of Norwegian enterprises are owned by families, and the Christian People's Party believes that payment of inheritance tax should be postponed for at least ten years at the time of generation change. If the holding continues to operate, one tenth of the inheritance fee shall cease every year and if the holding continues for at least 10 years, that fee shall lapse. This is what we believe to be good industrial policy, good social economy and good rural policy. I think it is completely wrong when entrepreneurs who have worked hard all their lives to build a business experience that the inheritance tax destroys the possibilities of passing on the life plant to the next generation. There are many examples of this. 40,000 enterprises are facing a generational shift over the next 10 years in this country, and surveys by the European Commission show that a successful change of ownership in small enterprises leads to an average of five jobs being continued. Reduction of taxes on wealth is also important. The property tax weakens private, active ownership, drains family holdings for capital, and hampers entrepreneurial activity and innovation. In no country does the tax on wealth fall to such a low level, and no country has as poor protection of working capital as Norway. Another important issue for SMEs is simplification. That is what is the main theme of this matter. Many public regulations, forms and injunctions lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complicated legislation, and too much effort and money is being used to do this work. That is why the Christian People's Party wants a simplified share law for small businesses, and we want to introduce sunset legislation both state and municipal, as well as a strategy for ownership change challenges in family-owned enterprises. Conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises deserve wide attention. I wish the Council of State the importance of such an important matter being dealt with by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2454	For the Left, it is clear that there is a need to improve the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore with some wonder that I both read and hear the self-satisfaction of the government parties about how well things are in most areas regarding the conditions of the smallest enterprises. The truth is that these have gradually worsened during this government and with this bulk of population – in most areas. The government and government parties boast that Norway is in the tenth place of 183 in the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ report for 2010, but at the same time they forget the fact that Norway was in fifth place in the corresponding report when that government took over. In other words, in relative terms, it has become worse to do business under the current government. The interesting thing about the report is also that Norway reaches it, for example. for the start-up of an enterprise or establishment, is as low as 35th place or 114th place in the case of labour regulations. The only benefit that Norway derives from is that it is easy to dispose of establishments. There we go in the third place. Government parties state that they are satisfied with the government's efforts to reduce the administrative resource use of industry, and see this as a powerful expression of their willingness to improve the framework conditions for businesses – a powerful expression? A short time ago, it was found that industry’s costs related to form fields and compliance with legislation have been reduced by only 0.5 pst. in the last three years. This is under this government – despite repeated promises of a strong simplification. While all countries around us have set ambitious targets for reducing the cost of business related to reporting due to rules and form loads, governments and government parties hesitate. This is anything but powerful. We are going to consider the proposal from the Left to set up a separate Norwegian regulatory board in accordance with the Swedish model, a system which has been demonstrably positive for the smallest enterprises in our neighbouring country. Of course, the parties to the government are voting against, without any argument other than reference to the government's so-called powerful efforts in this area. It follows a well-known pattern in which government parties consistently vote against all proposals for improvement for the small and medium-sized enterprises promoted in this Chamber. This applies consistently to all types of measures: simplification measures, tax proposals that stimulate more enterprises, measures that stimulate innovation and research efforts in smaller enterprises, and measures that better target the public sector. One thing is that government parties are voting against one measure, but what is worse is that government parties will not see this in a context either, and are therefore opposed to producing a big message so that we can at least see the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises as a whole. In order to create and secure jobs, it is essential to have a generally good framework for all sectors of business, combined with targeted efforts to ensure undergrowth of unborn enterprises in general and the development of more knowledge-based enterprises in particular. Public sector instruments need to be more effective in stimulating conversion and innovation rather than traditional activities and conservation. The economy depends on innovation and innovation to be competitive and to meet the challenges of the future. Left will unleash creativity and creativity. Therefore, we focus on those whom the government and government parties have completely forgotten: on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs – on the smallest farms. That is why we want less and simpler rules and regulations. That's why we want a tax system that stimulates ownership and investment in Norwegian companies. That is why we want better social arrangements for entrepreneurs and self-employed people. This is why we will increase entrepreneurship in high school and strengthen cooperation between business and school. Therefore, we will change and release Innovation Norway, so that it becomes more innovation and more focused on innovation and on the many new businesses that we need in the future if we are to ensure well-being. Finally, the Left wholeheartedly supports a proposal to make its own large-scale notification with the aim of improving the framework conditions for the smallest enterprises. If Heggø doesn't ask me about the time perspective for the sunset legislation, it's ten years. Rules and laws shall apply for a maximum period of 10 years before they may need to be re-adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2475	The government is very concerned that businesses and their employees and owners have good and predictable framework conditions for creating values and jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises account for a large proportion of enterprises in the Norwegian economy, and figures from the Statistical Centre show that enterprises with fewer than 100 employees account for more than 99 pst. of the total number of enterprises in Norway. This is why the government is now working on several issues that are relevant to these businesses. In its proposal, the representatives point to various issues and areas of concern which concern small businesses in particular, and, in this context, the government will draw up a comprehensive communication on the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposal itself shows how many different factors are actually pre-empting businesses and how many departments' policies are important in an active and good industrial policy. Not unexpectedly, the representatives propose the liquidation of property taxes and inheritance taxes. The government wants to keep the current tax and tax level. It is important to remember that tax revenue goes to social goods, which also strengthens our ability to convert, entrepreneurship and innovation. The Scandinavian welfare societies have repeatedly demonstrated that our system is more competitive, more robust in storms and in problematic times, creating greater justice and higher employment than other societal models. As regards work related to the reduction of resource use in compliance with industrial legislation, this work will continue with unrestricted strength. The essential thing is that the measures we put in place involve real business simplification. We'll keep working on that, just as my predecessors have. But it is true, as many have described, that this result has not come far enough. I think that's a responsibility I get to share with many of my predecessors from different parties and also the Storting, who of course have been with and adopted the laws and regulations that apply to business. The representatives further focus on measures to strengthen the Norwegian risk capital market and that more of the country’s capital should be put into work in a Public Private Cooperation. I agree with the proposers that increased access to public capital in the Norwegian capital market can contribute to the promotion of socially viable projects that would otherwise not be funded in a private market. I would like to remind you that there is already a significant contribution of state capital to business through different schemes. A number of these schemes are targeted at smaller enterprises and the government will continue to monitor the capital market situation with a view to possible needs for new instruments. I also notice that the proposal for the creation of an infrastructure fund is being re-examined by the representatives. The government still does not consider it appropriate to set up its own earmarked funds, but provides for record-breaking infrastructure appropriations – for transport – as we have done in the previous period and as we will continue to do in the next few years. With regard to the proposal that the Competition Authority be exempted from political governance, the government has a different opinion from that of the proposers. Firstly, competition supervision is not subject to political override in individual cases under the Competition Act. If it is appropriate to reverse a decision, it is because other considerations outweigh the considerations of effective competition, and then such a conversion must be adopted by the King in the Council of State. Secondly, the government is of the opinion that competition is good, but there are also situations where competition is not the right instrument for achieving important societal goals. The government will therefore be able to choose in important welfare areas different from that provided by the Competition Act. Proposalers are calling for a comprehensive communication on the framework conditions for SMEs in the light of the issues I have just commented on. As mentioned above, the government is now working on many issues that affect small and medium-sized enterprises. This is how we work every day to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. Among other things, a dedicated SME strategy shall be developed, as announced in the Innovation Communication. That's what we're doing. In line with the Soria Moria II declaration, the government will among other things: assess share and accounting law. The aim is to make concrete proposals on how to simplify and improve the framework conditions, while at the same time taking into account important societal considerations. The government will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with all the results of our work that are relevant to landfill treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2500	My question to the Council of State is as follows: The Council of State has now concluded its statement that it will return to the Storting in the areas that the Council of State and the Government consider relevant to the Storing. I believe, of course, that with regard to the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is most relevant to have a debate on this in the house. The national strategy, which up to a number of people have been involved — including the Council of State in its intervention — is, of course, the big issue here, which in many ways can capture at least part of what such a message could come up with, with the exception of the overall strategy. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State at least ensure that the overall strategy is addressed in the Grand Duchy, so that we can participate in and make representations to that matter, or will it simply come as a message or an annex to a budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2507	What is certain, at least, is that if the simplification work involves changes in laws, such as: if the share law or the accounting law is to be amended, it must be amended to the amount to be treated. This also applies to matters which may have budgetary implications or to matters which have been dealt with by the Storting in the past. All the rules and reporting, forms and red tape companies are exposed to, as a general rule, have had some positive idea at the time it was created – to have better statistics, to create good budgets, or to have control systems to enforce tax laws, etc., or for other reasons. So this has been treated very often in this hall, and is a result of different processes. That's why I imagine a lot of this comes to Stortinget for treatment. If it is presented as a whole in a message, we have not taken a decision. That's what we reserve the right to evaluate to see if it's appropriate when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2514	It is gratifying that the Council of State does not, in the same way as its red-green colleagues in the Chamber here, annoy themselves that the opposition wants a message – yes, some of the red-greens also think it is maseta – but the Council of State does not go into it to a large extent, but at least he wants to come back to the Storting to discuss the matters that are relevant, as opposed to the representative of the SV, who sounds like he has no longer intended to present anything to the Stortinget. The chairman of the committee said that it was more important to discuss this with the business community than to discuss it with the Stortinget, at least I understood his posts like this. It brings me to ask the Council of State for the following, which is more of a detail, but since it is now operating in parallel: Is the Council of State now satisfied with the progress and results of the government council for SMEs so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2521	I'm very pleased with the input we get from different companies, whether it's in the council or whether it's in other contexts, and I also agree with the chairman of the committee that the most important thing in this work is the companies themselves. They know where the shoe prints. They can tell us what's most important to do, and they're going to carry this business to the seventh and last. I believe that on behalf of really many governments and many government councils we have to say that we have not come far enough. That is why we need a strategy. That is why we need to implement further measures, and I would also like to listen to advice from Stortinget. This is a debate on simplification, so if the representatives not only took the time to discuss whether we should have a message or not, but also discussed the various things that could actually contribute to simplification, it would have been a golden opportunity to give the government good advice, to which we will then listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2528	The main survey in the Baltic broadcast today was ‘Grunderdørke’. New figures from the Statistical Centre show that fewer and fewer people start on their own and that there has been a downward trend in recent years. Senior Economist Lars-Erik Sletner of the Business Association said that the decline ‘shows that the government’s industrial policy for small businesses is too poor’. So my question to the council is whether he's comfortable with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2540	I believe that both I and my colleagues are proud of what we have done, but we are not satisfied in the sense that we are done with the job. On the contrary, there is a lot left, and therefore it was important for us to win the election last autumn. But if you look at the overall indicator of whether we succeed in our industrial policy or not, namely the employment situation, the growth situation, in Norway, I have to say that compared to the countries we have around us, compared to what is now happening in the European Union, compared to the unemployment we see in the United States, we are doing wonderfully well. But actually not miraculously, for this is a result of political choices, of an active policy, of a proper budgetary policy, but also of the organization for business to flourish. So I don't recognize myself in the representative's description, especially not in her main post, where I think there's going to be a little too much black paint of a situation that I think we're going to be very proud of. It means a lot to people in Norway that we have a unemployment rate of about 3 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2545	In a letter of reply dated 3 March 2010, the Council of State, through the Ministry of Industry and Trade, states the following: ‘The form tax is a saving tax for Norwegian taxpayers in general [[...]] I don't think small and medium-sized enterprises see it the same way, because their wealth is often in the company, and that's what they have to do to produce what they're going to sell. At least the Council of State does not see that there is a difference between the money you have in the bank and a wealth of machinery, buildings, infrastructure, cars, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2555	There are many forms of capital, and there are many in the business community themselves who have sought a smoother taxation of passive assets, such as properties, e.g., and more active ones, such as production equipment and what the representative now addresses. This has, among other things, been the case. The progress party was very opposed. In this city, property taxes have been completely removed, so that tax on various property items has been distorted. So if this signals a new line from the Progress Party on a more even taxation of different property items, then it's absolutely something we're also willing to discuss. We don't have a static view of how the tax system should be designed. We want a fair tax system, we want a sensible tax system, and we want a tax system that ensures that public welfare services have good funding. It's at the bottom of our tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2562	The President will remind us that we have a long evening meeting in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2565	Thank you for that. It mainly affects ourselves who are going to debate all the issues here, but it's going to be fine. My question to the Council of State is this: once again, we heard the Council of State say that what proves that business is going well and that a good policy for small and medium-sized enterprises is the growth of employment – that is, how many people are employed. My question to the Council of State is, is there any difference between being employed in the public sector or in the private sector? And then I'd like to ask the Council of State to talk about the growth of employment in the last few years. If we look at the last two years, hasn't the growth in employment been mainly in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2575	It is true that we have had a growth in employment in the public sector, but the greatest growth in our consumption has been in private consumption. There has been much greater growth in private consumption in Norway in the last ten years in crowns and ears than in public consumption. However, public consumption has also increased, and this has been in areas where I thought that the opposition also fully agreed that it was important to grow — in particular, care for the elderly has had many more employees. In the police there have been many more employed. In the education sector, more are employed. In the hospital sector, there are several — important welfare tasks to be done. We get more elderly, and then more people in the public sector are needed to care, to care for, and, unlike melting aluminium, or other industrial processes, it is not as easy to streamline that work and replace people with machine operations. For here it is the human-to-human-contact that is crucial for the quality of service. It's a free line round?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2582	Yes. The President will consider, if not in the next case, at least in the case afterwards, whether we should limit the number of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2585	I thank you for at least not having any restrictions on this matter. I'm taking up the thread from our last line change, where the council said we have to listen to business, because they're wearing the shoes. I fully agree with that, and that is why we are promoting these proposals. I hope that the Council of State takes this seriously and takes it with him, because when he suggests that the opposition is black-painting, it is tempting, after listening to some posts here, to replicate that position as a beautician. But if we take this away and think about Norwegian business, think about how slow things are going with simplification, with changes in stock laws, etc. and see that things are happening in our neighbouring countries, can the Council of States then think of saying a little more than what I have perceived that he has said, namely, that it has gone too slowly? Would he think to say that it's going to go a little bit faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2592	We're going to hope that the answer won't be limited, because the question wasn't. We're going to do everything we can to make this work faster. I am to set concrete goals for the work. Measurable results stimulate more concrete action. By looking at neighbouring countries and what happens there, we can learn from what others do. Nor should we be proud of anything where Norway is, in fact, a country of the past. The whole system of ALTINN, where we have compiled reports, rules and information in one place, is something that other countries see as a good example. Much of the bureaucracy in the companies is due to the business itself, that is, to what is crucial for value creation, what is crucial for – what I know – the invoicing and development of the company. We must play along with the companies in the administrative and bureaucratic system for which the companies themselves are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2601	The councils asked to get a recording and not just talk about the legislation. Then I'll make a recording to the Council of State. We have many small companies operating with niche products, including in travel, such as: may be made up of one’s own pear pages or of one’s own cider. It is allowed to serve when tourists arrive, but you are not allowed to sell it in bottles that tourists bring with them. It goes a little bit on framework conditions and what you can make money on. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Will the Council of State consider changing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2608	This question shows the immeasurable diversity of business policy, as there are so many factors affecting the environment of enterprises. This is the case with the alcohol regulation, which is under the health minister. I think I should leave her to manage that rule, but I would like to discuss solutions that mean that traders can also have better opportunities to sell their products in this area. Then we'll find possible cooperation solutions with shops or with the Vinmonopolet and see if it's possible to get solutions that will take care of the important intentions of the alcohol policy, while at the same time facilitating good business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2613	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2618	It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that account for the large values that one creates here to land. I have had the joy – sometimes to the dubious joy – of renting a medium-sized company, but I have also had the joy of sitting in a group board with billions of dollars, in the board of directors of a medium-sized company with several hundred million dollars in translation and in a small company that has had a few million dollars in translation. I've seen the consequences of how laws and regulations turn out. They actually look the same for all of those that I describe here. The large groups have relatively small challenges to address in relation to the form field, while the smallest enterprises have major problems. When it comes to the issue raised, to get a review of the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is high time that the Storting should also be involved in such a review. The medium-sized enterprises manage to a certain extent. We see that the biggest companies complain through their organisation, NHO, and ask for their challenges, while the smallest companies wear – and wear heavily. In many ways, we see a control regime around these, for example. audit obligations. You have an audit obligation if you have a billion-dollar settlement, but you also have an audit obligation if you spend a few hundred thousand dollars a year. It should definitely have been looked at, because the option is to register the company in foreign registers. Thus, the audit requirement lapses and one can still operate normally in Norway. It is in one way to legitimise the registration of non-preferential enterprises, which should also be an incentive to go through the situation and the framework conditions of these enterprises. Finally, a few words about wealth taxes, which many react strongly to, and which in these days are helping to give the yard industry great challenges, because some of them are family property. These family-owned enterprises have to pay property taxes on a crane standing on the berth, on a drill that is on the bench, etc. It's not helping these companies through the crisis we're now seeing. It's a challenge that can be long and difficult. If these companies are also going to have a generation change, they're really bad out there, as the legislation is today. I fully support the intentions of the proposers that the Storting should review the framework conditions for SMEs. They need it sorely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2629	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2645	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will further propose the opening of the exchange of lines after the speakers who have spoken within the allocated speaking time. The President will consider the number of lines in the course of the debate, but initially the President will propose that it open the door to a change of lines after the speakers who have the floor within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2654	I expect that there will probably not be the same number of lines in this context – we will see that as the debate progresses. The representatives of the Right have made the following proposals in the document: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals that explore future challenges and opportunities for NIS, and with proposals that make NIS more attractive and competitive, including the lifting of traffic area limitations. In this context, the possibility of extending the net pay scheme to NIS vessels is explored.’.» It is quite obvious that in this setting the committee is divided. The Government Parties refer in the case to the legislation currently in force in respect of the registers, while the opposition, through several different proposals, promotes its own views on how it considers that changes should be made. With regard to the proposal from the Progress Party, I would like to take it up, so that I have done so, and perhaps the other parties will have to present their own proposals as they come to the Chair. It's not going to get away from that when it comes to NIS, the Norwegian International Ship Register, we've had a negative development. The number of ships in the scheme has decreased. But I will actually initially also praise the Council of State, because the Council of State has made an effort, and made a recording, which shows that you want to have more ships within the NIS system. It is important, not necessarily because of the tax or to be paragraph. One, two, three, four or five of the international statistics, but it is important to keep tonnage behind in the international forums for the development of shipping policy. Then the number of ships in the registers we have is important. The registers are also important because having boats registered in Norwegian registers also affects your relationship at home – it means at least I myself, and I believe many people with me. It affects the ability to have Norwegian crews on board the boats, it affects who you buy services from, and it also affects what has to do with the workshop, construction, etc. So, of course, there's a significant difference in terms of the NOR register and the NIS register. On the part of the opposition, alternative approaches are sought. Some people want to go directly to lift the limitations of their seafaring area linked to the Norwegian base. The progress party will strongly warn against this at this stage, because it could very quickly lead to Norwegian seafarers being removed from the vessels. Other proposals are aimed at investigating. The Progress Party wants to investigate what is happening to NIS and NIS along the coast, but together with the net pay system, to ensure that Norwegian seafarers are on board these ships. I'm not going to dwell on this anymore, just end by saying the following: I think it's important to make sure to look at the framework conditions of our ship registers. It is important that the registers that we ourselves have are competitive against other registers. So we now connected to Fjord Line, which is going to build two boats. They have chosen to remain in the DIS, i.e. the Danish ship register, because there was uncertainty about the Norwegian framework conditions, that they were too bad. We should take that over. But it's also important that we get an interaction that just ensures that we also have Norwegian seafarers along the coast. However, it is a paradox, I must say in conclusion, that the only ship register that does not allow to go along the Norwegian coast is the Norwegian one. It's kind of special, and it obviously has to do with the debate that was related to the NIS/NOR division. But anyway, it's especially that if you register the boat in the Bahamas, you can go along the Norwegian coast, but if you register the boat in Oslo through NIS, you can't go between Norwegian ports. I think you have to look at the framework conditions, but it has to be done in such a way that Norwegian seafarers are also guaranteed work along the Norwegian coast and on Norwegian boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2676	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2679	The issue raised today by the representatives of the Right has been debated in the Chamber earlier this period. In this Document 8, the Right emphasis is placed on making the Norwegian International Ship Register more competitive, by opening up the traffic limitations in particular. The previous debate we had in this room on the topic showed that there is a relatively large consensus that there is a need to assess measures to make NIS more competitive, but that there are different opinions on how to weigh the different devices. The red-green government has been focusing on maritime nutrition all the time, and already in 2007 a maritime strategy was created, which was called the ‘Steel Course’, where the vision is that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation. It contains a number of specific measures to help increase measures in the field of industry recruitment and focuses on good and long-term framework conditions. And the government has provided competitive framework conditions. It mentions the introduction of the shipping tax system, a net wage system, and the government has focused on competence, research and the environment. This has also been followed up in the state budgets. The working party has been more committed to marketing the ship register and has also put in place its own strategy on this, now last with ‘Norway as a maritime host country’. The government wants to deliver a maritime policy that contributes to value creation in Norway. In the case of the ship register, it is important to market this and to contribute to the relocation of the company and that foreign operators choose Norway as their country of localisation. In this context, it is important that those already active in Norway continue to want to develop their activities here. I am pleased that the Minister of Industry has already initiated a process around this challenge by involving the various maritime organisations and shipping industry in the process further identifying current legislation and administrative procedures is good enough, or whether changes need to be made to meet the requirements of the users. When we talk specifically about area limitations, there's no doubt that there's a great deal of distance between the positions of maritime organisations and shipping companies. It might be good to remind Right that when they ran the country under the Bondevik government, and had a majority to expand the area of operation in NIS, they failed to follow this up. So while the Right did not intervene, the Government has taken over and delivered an active policy in the maritime sector. It might be nice to remember that it was the Workers' Party that created NIS in 1987, which was an important grip for shipping. It was the Workers' Party that introduced the net pay scheme, and it was the Workers' Party and our friends in the SV and the Center Party that put forward a new shipping tax scheme in 2007. It's about using power when you have it, and it's about using it cleverly and seeing the long-term lines. In this context, the right has done nothing but talk. The right, as I have noticed, has shown only a cut in the net pay scheme in the 2010 state budget of 610 million. kr. I believe that this industry needs a government that understands the challenges, that listens and finds the best solutions for the future, and not least takes the right steps. Today, we have a government and not least a Minister of Industry who understands these challenges. The delivery of good policies requires that industry’s challenges are taken seriously, that dialogue looks at possible solutions, and that, after assessing them, they actually take action. Today, the maritime action package is also put on the table through the revised budget. The government cannot stop the situation of shipyards and subcontractors entering, with strong orders decline and reduced order servers, but at least it is important to have a handshake from the government through flexibility in the instrument and new, fresh money into environmental measures and empowerment measures, and not least an increase of 10 billion. kr to GIEK, who now has a total frame of 120 billion. kr. With that hand bill, the government will help keep more wheels running, fewer cancellations, and more people gaining their skills. I would also like to remind you here that the government has made important changes to the rules of leave, which of course stand by and which will benefit the many people who have been granted leave. It is good that the Right also focuses on different areas that are challenging to the conditions of competition. I am pleased that the Minister of Industry has already addressed this challenge. So we can expect that after a thorough review of the recordings, for example. in relation to the limitations of the area of operation, the evaluation of the net pay scheme and the service of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs, come back with action. The Labour Party proposes that document 8:59 S not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2716	I have two short questions. Does the representative, Botten, consider it reasonable to have a system linked to a Norwegian international ship register that allows vessels in the ships register of all other nations to go along the Norwegian coast, but not the Norwegian vessels in NIS? The representative Botten himself pointed out that there has been dialogue and dialogue, linked to change. My question is this: When can we expect a result, because there have been conversations about these things for years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2725	As far as the NIS register is concerned, I have shown in my post that there are challenges to this, that it is important that we have a dialogue about it with the industry, and that we find solutions. I am positive about and believe that there will be changes, but at the same time I believe that there are so many major challenges given that the different parties are so far apart, that this is not a quick fix case. That's why I'm sure you'll spend the time you need, and I'm also sure there'll be a clear answer on the table for you. Can you repeat that second question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2734	The representative shall be allowed to repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2737	The question was: When can we expect the work related to changed conditions in the register to be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2742	The answer is already given: it's hard to say just when, but I think it's important to use the time you need, because this is not a simple job, and it's important to do it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2748	I thank you enough for a lecture on how brilliant everything is under this government, and how difficult it was earlier. The bottom says that there is a relatively large consensus that something has to be done in this matter with the ship registers, and I think that is a good starting point. We need to do something about it. It is clear from the comments of the Red-Greens and from the letters of the Council of State to the Committee. My question is: when there is so much agreement on the goal, why do the government parties choose to send out such a signal to the industry, using the strongest term one can use on a Document 8 proposal, namely that it is not adopted, rather than choosing a milder form, which could well be done – and thus send a completely different, positive signal? It must have a cause. It would be nice if the representative could tell me about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2757	I want to start by saying that that's exactly what I said on the pulpit, that the right did too little when they put in power, and that we've actually done so much. We have delivered a package of measures on the package of measures. We have been very busy having a rough course in relation to the maritime industry. We have, as I said, also come up with net pay arrangements, and we have come up with shipping tax schemes – which I think Right is also happy that we have done. As for the changes, I'd say it's important to take time. I don't think we're quite ready for that. At least I don't feel like I am. I think it's important that we spend time well, and that we come up with good solutions when there's changes. It also shows the package of measures that came today that we have a tradition of doing so. We have spent time, put ourselves into things, had dialogue and delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2764	It is not my intention to extend this meeting, but it can also help the representative, Botten, not to do so by answering my question. I did not ask for a new lecture on what the red-greens do and don't do. I'll go with that. I asked why the strongest form of expression Stortinget has been chosen in relation to a Document 8 proposal – that is, not to say ‘no’, that is, the same as we used to call ‘refused’ – when we know that the industry reads these signals from Stortinget. There must be a reason why it is so strongly felt that this proposal, which is actually in line with the views of both the parties to the government and the Council of State, must have such a strong character.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2771	It is really a nice and pleasant job to get the teacher representative from the Right – it was just to light up what was asked. The working party is very busy listening to both parties, the maritime organisations and shipping companies, in this context. I feel that the representative proposal from the Right would have been just listening to one of the parties, i.e. the shipping companies. I'm not ready for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2778	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2781	When we in the Right propose that future challenges and opportunities for NIS need to be explored in order to make the register more attractive and competitive, it is because we are seriously concerned that fewer and fewer ships are flying the Norwegian flag, and that NIS seems to be confusing. We believe that if Norway is to continue to be able to put its mark on international shipping policy and legislation in the future, NIS must remain a strong international register, allowing shipowners to register their ships under the flag of Norway – with long maritime traditions and high reputation. NIS is open to all types of owners and does not require establishment in Norway. At the same time, the register is the only one in the world that prohibits its own national ships from moving in its own waters. It is not permitted to carry cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports or to set a regular route between Norwegian and foreign ports. In this context, the Norwegian port is also regarded as an oil and gas facility on the Norwegian continental shelf. It is problematic that Norwegian ships registered in NIS are excluded, while ships registered in foreign registers are free to operate in this area. It is claimed that the limitations of the area of use are important to ensure Norwegian seafarers. What we see, however, is that the role of the Norwegian seafarer is not at all guaranteed by the regulation relating to NIS, as long as the legislation will remain so arranged in the future that the shipowners do not fly under the Norwegian flag. The reality is that the number of vessels flying the flag of Norway in NIS has decreased in recent years. At the same time, we can read in the newspaper Maritim Logg that more and more NIS ships are looking for a derogation to sail on the coast, which I believe is undermining the entire system. It is important for Norway’s status and impact as a shipping nation internationally that NIS is a large and strong register. The right is of the opinion that, in the first row, there are limitations on the area of use which prevent multiple registrations in NIS. At the same time, we believe that, in view of the purpose of the scheme – which is to support the Norwegian seafarer – it should also be considered to allow the net pay scheme to operate on ships in NIS. The shipping industry is global and operates in an international, open competition. At the same time, shipping and the maritime industries are of great importance for the Norwegian economy and are important for many communities. The fact that the industry is attracted by the countries with the best overall conditions indicates that it is of great importance to provide the industry with predictable and internationally competitive framework conditions which are at least as good as those of our competing countries. We believe that ship registers should be involved in ensuring that Norway remains a leading maritime nation. The registers must then also have framework conditions that make them an attractive choice, so that we can still be a competitive flag State. The right-hand proposal to make NIS more attractive and competitive was promoted precisely on the basis of a desire to strengthen the Norwegian maritime industry and further develop our proud shipping history. Then the maritime cluster depends on the fact that all parts of the industry are still experiencing favourable development opportunities in Norway. For example, it involves: a tax regime for Norwegian shipping companies that is in line with our competitors. The downturn was great because the government, having lost the so-called shipping tax case in the Supreme Court, proposed a new transitional arrangement which again imposed new uncertainty on the industry. It is disappointing that the government will not provide an overall review of the terms of the register, as proposed by the Right and as an overall opposition is behind it. I take up proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2817	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2822	It is very clear that the Right and the representative Røbekk Nørve have already landed that we need to open up the restrictions on the area of use. But from that point of view, it might be interesting to hear whether the Right has formed a constitution on whether some Norwegian seafarers, a certain number of Norwegian seafarers, can expect to lose their job if the Right gets an impact on the opening of this traffic area restriction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2827	What we've done in the right is ask the government to investigate the possibilities of changing the relationship as it is today. We have also asked the government to investigate the possibility that the net pay scheme can also work in NIS. We're doing this because we're very concerned that more and more ships are disappearing from NIS. It is precisely because of NIS and Norwegian seafarers we want to make an assessment of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2832	I have the feeling that you yourself must have thought a little through what consequences a proposal will have, when you make a proposal, and not just leave it to the government to find out what kind of consequences this proposal will have. So I want the representative, Røbekk Nørve, to be able to answer that in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2837	On the right, the challenges that lie there are in the relationship between seafarers and shipowners. But we also see very clearly that there is still a confusion here. In fact, there have been fewer Norwegian seafarers in recent years, including under this government, and fewer ships have been registered in NIS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2843	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2846	The maritime industries are important for Norway. That's why it's positive that we get a new opportunity to discuss the nutrients here in the hall. I want to borrow from repeating what I said the last time this issue was raised by the representative Nesvik, a few weeks ago. Many NIS ships are in favour of Norway gaining an important position in international shipping policy. This position should be used within the IMO to ensure that more stringent environmental requirements are met in international shipping. It will be positive for the environment, but it will also be very positive for the Norwegian maritime industry, which has a strong technological position, and can thus create new markets in an orderly drought situation. The Government is actively working to strengthen NIS. In a letter to Stortinget, the Minister of Economic Affairs referred to the Maritime Strategy Stø kurs, which was presented in 2007. In the follow-up to this strategy, emphasis has been placed on strengthening the overall maritime industry, by focusing on research, development of competences and networking. These are important measures in a highly skilled industry. The government has actively invested in marketing Norway as a maritime nation abroad. These include: through the ‘Norway as a maritime host country’ project. The government is also busy monitoring whether we have regulations or administrative procedures that may prevent ships from being registered in NIS. The government has a good dialogue with the industry about this. Proposal providers address the issue of changing the scope limits of NIS. It is worth noting that there is a great deal of discomfort between employers and employees in this area. Norwegian trade unionists are busy that there should be Norwegian pay and working conditions on Norwegian soil. Seafarers’ organisations consider this issue to be a matter of Norwegian salary and working conditions on Norwegian ships in Norwegian waters. It's an important principle. If we change the area limits of NIS, this principle may come under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2857	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2860	The Government lost the shipping tax case in the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, you choose to create a new transitional arrangement. So my question to the representative is: The representative of the SV to try to override the Supreme Court in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2865	What we're doing here is not over-trying the Supreme Court. What we're doing is we're going to find an arrangement that makes the tax that's outstanding can be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2870	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2873	Maritime transport is an important industry in Norway, where we clearly take great advantage of our long traditions as a maritime nation. In 1996, the Central Party was at the heart of the establishment of a new shipping tax system. The background was that the current management of the Ministry of Finance and the government considered that shipping activities did not need industry-specific measures, because the policy line then — now in some circles — was industry-neutrality. The question that the Central Party then travelled was: What is Norway without shipping? The answer is: it's not Norway. The government's proposals were therefore fundamentally and fundamentally amended. We then got a new shipping tax that worked very well, the so-called shipping tax of 1996, based on a social contract – a social contract with rights and obligations: the right for shipping companies to pay zero in tax – the obligation that the profits that were earned in the company could not be distributed without full taxation on the hands of shipowners or owners. In other words, it ended up investing profits from shipping in mainland Norway, which gave unfair competition to other traders. The shipping tax was then amended in 2007, where the obligation was removed and zero tax was passed on, while the accumulated profits were taxed – sail if the obligations were not broken by the shipping company. This tax ruling found the Supreme Court to be in breach of the Constitutional Law’s prohibition of acts giving retroactive effect. In my opinion, the decision of the Supreme Court ensured legal certainty. The Government has taken note of the decision of the Supreme Court, while the obligations of the shipping company under the company tax of 1996 are now offered to pay a flat-rate tax on a voluntary basis in order to pay off the obligations on a permanent basis. This is entirely in line with the intentions, and there is no reason for deep disappointment from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party over this proposal. What is disappointing about today's shipping tax is that we can once again get untaxed shipping capital for use in mainland Norway, in competition with scarce, attractive mainland investment. It is a disadvantageous socio-economic view, when one chose to go away from the shipping tax from 1996. Today's theme is to make the Norwegian International Ship Register, NIS, more attractive. In 1987, we received NIS, which allowed foreign workers on NIS-registered ships to be remunerated with the home country's labour rate. At the same time, the rights of NIS-registered ships were connected to the obligation, i.e. the limitations of the area of use. NIS ships could not be engaged on cargo or passenger services between Norwegian ports, the coastal freight service, or on a regular basis between Norwegian and foreign ports. In this context, the Norwegian port is also considered to be an oil and gas activity facility on Norwegian continental shelf. This shipping was connected to NOR, Norwegian Ordinary Ship Register. Today's Document 8 proposal from the Right, the government is asking for the lifting of the traffic limits and, at the same time, extending the net pay regime to NIS vessels. Government parties reject the proposal while insisting that the shipping nation of Norway provides its shipping industry with long-term and competitive framework conditions. For the Central Party, it is important, yes, part of our maritime policy that has been in focus since 1996. At the same time, the extension of the net pay mechanism to NIS vessels is not a proper priority given to the current international competitive situation. Similarly, the abandonment of the area limitations for NIS vessels would result in a very negative development of the role of NOR registered freighters along the Norwegian coast. This is unwise policy, because the transport vessels in NOR have a central role in coastal traffic, with a high need for local knowledge to provide safe shipping in difficult weather conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2888	It will be a string change – the first replicator is Harald T. Nesvik, then Svein Flätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2891	I have a few questions for the representative Lundtegen. Question 1, until the end of the meeting: The representative Lundtegegen pointed out the importance of our NOR-ship fleet, which is probably the closest near-navigation fleet he is thinking of, having local knowledge, and that therefore we must not open up to NIS along the coast. Then it is strange that we allow all other nations to walk along the coast, which then does not have the limitations of the Norwegian-registered boats. Could the representative Lundtigen say what it says in that reasoning? Question 2: Now there are several from the government parties who have been up and said yes, but you are working to look at what NIS has to do with it, just to see if it is possible to reach an agreement, or at least see if you can get them more competitive, as Lundtägen now categorically rejects in his post. Is it the government's policy that you don't want to look at those conditions, or is it Lundtigen's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2900	To take the last first – the net pay scheme. There is a scheme that has been a lot of progress in the discussion, and is still in the discussion. It's a plan that has a cost framework of nearly 2 billion. kr. It is important that we use the funds over the net payroll scheme in those areas where there is the greatest need, and I then said on behalf of the Central Party that we do not see it as right to prioritize the NIS fleet and expand this scheme. It's okay for parties that have unlimited money, but it doesn't have the government parties. So to the other ratio. It is true that NIS cannot go in freight along the coast, while other foreign companies can do so. It's a challenge. At the same time, those who are in the NOR fleet – the shipping vessels in the NOR fleet – want to have the current regime, because it is a safer and better regime than the alternative that the Progress Party wants to introduce. NOR is a good arrangement for shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2907	The President dubiously gives the floor to Mr T. Nesvik. The President has announced Svein Flätten, but it is more practical that Harald T. Nesvik gets two lines in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2911	Then I just want to take this opportunity to distance myself from what the representative Lundtigen says. The progress party has not said that we want to lift the limitations on the area of use. The Progress Party has said that consideration and consideration should be given to the possibility in combination with a net pay scheme. So I think that the representative Lundtigen, when he's back in his place, should at least read what it says there, because there are other parties that have proposed the suspension, not the Progress Party, precisely because we see the importance of Norwegian seafarers along the coast on Norwegian boats. There were range limitations we talked about, it wasn't the net pay scheme. The net pay scheme does not amount to 2 billion. kr, but it's $1.7 billion. kr, according to the current revised national budget for the current year. My question to Lundtigen is again: The representative Lundtigen used his post to explain the importance of NOR, i.e. that local knowledge was important. I fully agree with the representative Lundtägen that local knowledge is important. But isn't it unreasonable that every other nation's ship registers along the coast are all right, just not with NIS?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2918	The conditions of the system of NIS and NOR are a whole where one balances different considerations. The system we now have, with the NOR fleet and the rights they have in relation to the NIS fleet, combined with the net pay system, is a system that is positive for the shipping vessels that go between Norwegian ports, which are Norwegian registered and have Norwegian wage and working conditions. When the Progress Party says that one would rather keep it than retain the other benefits, and one would only extend the benefits, one would come to a situation where one would not prioritize scarce resources. This means that there is one outside what is realism in any policy: one must give priority and one must combine rights and duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2923	The representative, Lundtigen, used most of his contributions to highlight his efforts towards the shipping tax system in 1996. But then he also addressed the repeal of the 1996 scheme and what was done in 2007. He concludes by saying that fortunately, the Supreme Court justly judged this winter and provided for reassuring legal certainty. How does the representative Lundtegeg think that his contribution to ensuring legal certainty for the industry was in the period from the Storting made this decision, until the Supreme Court lifted it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2930	That was very good. The representative of Lundtigen said from the Spokesman's Chair what was the representative's assessment of questions relating to what was adopted in 1996 and related to the Constitutional Law paragraph that a law should not have retroactive effect. It is just going through the necessary documents from the committee, the setting-up and from the pulpit of the Storting. One sees it as a clear line in the line of the representative, and I am pleased with that decision that ensured the security of justice. That's why I repeated it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2937	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2940	We often say that shipping companies are the very hub for the maritime cluster in Norway to remain and develop further. The value added is high and it is the largest industry after the petroleum activity. Therefore, we are very interested in how the maritime industry experiences the state framework conditions. As we have heard from representatives in the past: ships registered in NIS meet restrictions that foreign ships do not have in respect of missions in Norwegian waters. The Christian People's Party believes that these restrictions should be removed over time. NIS-registered ships have collective agreements which ensure that seafarers enjoy a clean pay and working environment and social rights. At the same time, a large Norwegian-controlled fleet allows Norway to influence shipping policy internationally. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is very unfortunate for both seafarers and shipping companies that there is a reduction in the number of ships registered in NIS. From 2002 there is a 30 pst reduction. Speed limits are indicated by the shipping companies as the main reason for their use of foreign flags. Speed limits discriminate against Norwegian registered ships in relation to foreign ships. NIS is the only ship register in the world that prohibits its own national ships from sailing in its own waters. In particular, the Christian People’s Party considers that there is a prohibition on the carriage of cargo between Norwegian ports and the prohibition on the carriage of cargo or passengers between ports in Norway and the device on Norwegian continental shelf which is problematic. However, the removal of limitations in both of these areas must take place in combination with the extension of the net pay system to NIS-registered vessels. The Norwegian foreign fleet is increasingly made up of vessels providing advanced auxiliary functions in relation to oil and gas extraction by oil companies at increasing sea depths. Norway has the world's most advanced and the world's second largest offshore fleet after the United States, with more than 450 vessels. Most offshore facilities have utility services and anchor management services as important parts of their business. Traditionally, the offshore industries have worked in the North Sea, which is divided into Norwegian and British sectors. Today, other international markets have become more important. In order to ensure flexibility between continental shelf ships, uniform international legislation is essential. In practice, for ships operating on both Norwegian and British bases, NIS is excluded. We think that is very unfortunate. Norwegian offshore shipping companies have a strong market position both in Norway and internationally, and the growth is particularly outside the Norwegian base. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People’s Party, it should be a political objective to ensure Norwegian off-shore international competitive framework conditions in such a way that Norwegian competence can also participate in an increased internationalisation of the industry. In the first place, the Christian People's Party will open up the possibility for ships in NIS to take orders to and from installations on a Norwegian base. Based on the experience of such an opening, where the effects in the labour market are carefully assessed, we can then assess the further winding-up of the traffic limits also for ships carrying cargoes between Norwegian ports. On this basis, I take up the proposals from the Christian People's Party, which are reproduced in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2963	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2966	In the maritime sector, Norway has world-leading competence and international competitiveness. The government is therefore working purposefully to take care of and further develop the maritime industry. We have put forward and followed up a comprehensive maritime strategy, ‘Should course’, where the vision is that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation. The concrete and central actions of the government have been linked to establishing competitive framework conditions. We have put in place a new and competitive shipping tax system, an extended net pay system and a targeted focus on competence, research and the environment, accompanied by annual budgetary resources. A new example of government's willingness and ability to invest is the comprehensive package of measures aimed at the yard and the supplier industry. This shows that the government sees the importance of the maritime industries for value added and employment in Norway, especially along the coast. At the Verftsconference in Ålesund, 3–4. Last November, I launched the project ‘Norway as a maritime host country’. With that project, we want to relocate our business to Norway and get foreign players to choose Norway as a country of localisation. Of course, it is also important to facilitate the further development of maritime activities already carried out in Norway. In this work it is central to investigate and monitor in close dialogue with industry stakeholders the existence of legislation and administrative procedures that may prevent the use of Norwegian ship registers. We have received good input on issues such as the traffic control, the net pay system and the organization and service of the Maritime Directorate. We have already seen that dialogue and direct contact give results. Several shipping companies have moved ships into the NIS register, and there is a signal that several are on their way in. We also see that the drop in the number of ships in the NIS register has stopped. Like the proposers, the government is also aware of the issues related to the limitations of the area of operation of NIS ships. The industry dialogue shows that there is a very high distance between shipowners’ and seafarers’ organisations on this issue. We have to take that into account in the further work on these questions. We also look at whether there may be other regulatory and administrative processes that affect the attractiveness of the NIS registry. To the extent that legislative changes are relevant, the Storting will be involved in the ordinary way. The proposers wish to examine the issue of extending the net pay regime for NIS ships. Similar proposals have been made by organisations in connection with the project Norway as a maritime host country. These proposals are now part of the process undertaken by the Ministry to assess the various inputs. An evaluation report on the maritime subsidy schemes shows that the schemes are functioning in an appropriate way by ensuring Norwegian maritime competence and employment and by preventing deflagration. In line with the Soria Moria statement, the government is determined to continue the net pay system. However, the evaluation report provides the basis for a thorough review of the mechanism for adjustments, if appropriate. We have also asked stakeholders in the industry for input and comments on the evaluation report. I believe that there is a great deal of consensus also in this Chamber on the need for action to make NIS more competitive, on the importance of Norway having a large fleet under its own flag, and to ensure Norwegian maritime competence and employment. At the same time, there are different perceptions of device, dosage and timing of the phase-in of different instruments. The government has a comprehensive process in this area, including a close dialogue with industry stakeholders. We want to look at all the different elements that together form our maritime strategy. Our goal is very clear. If Norway is to succeed as a country of business, we cannot have a neutral industrial policy. We must have an active industrial policy that facilitates the areas where Norway has a special advantage, and the maritime sector is one of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e2999	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3002	I think the Council of State has a very nice approach to this matter. I understand that this is a difficult matter, because there are several interests facing each other until a solution can be found that the parties can agree on. I think it's very important, that cooperation between the maritime organisations and the Shipowners' Association, i.e. the industry itself, in consultation with the Department and the Council of State. I don’t think anyone deserves to take uniform action – in one direction – because then there will be problems. This is a discussion that has been going on over time. There is no new problem with NIS/NOR. My question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State see a time horizon here? When can you possibly come back to something, when can we see a result, so that there are not only Norwegian vessels in NIS that cannot go along the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3010	The representative really well describes the dilemma we're facing. On the one hand, we want a NIS register that is attractive, competitive, flexible, accessible and also gives companies the opportunity to use it actively. On the other hand, we will also ensure that Norwegian seafarers have decent working conditions. We want a tribe of Norwegian seafarers. It means a lot in the maritime cluster that we're ensuring it. Thirdly, to be honest, there is also a limit on how much we can spend on the state budget in direct support schemes for a cluster, as important as it is. I have to say that we will bring the measures as they come. There may be small and large measures that can be implemented. To the very biggest question that I suppose the representative referred to, namely the area limitations, I can't tell you any time for a change, because we haven't concluded whether there will be any change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3017	After all, it is quite clear from this debate – and insofar as previous debates on this issue as well – that the major issue of territorial limitations, as those that are important for getting more ships into NIS, is the distance between shipping companies and seafarers’ staff, i.e. in organisations. We also noticed that in our comments. This helps the matter to stand still. Is the Council of State thinking about being able to play an active role in bringing these two parties closer together, and then I don't think about subsidies, support for the state budget, which the Council of State was just about? Can you play an active role, so that this case comes out of what I now see as a disability for quite a few?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3022	Yes, I believe that it is our role to be able to get the parties to talk together. But this is really our prayer, because we're the ones who regulate these rules. It is not just for the shipping companies and maritime organisations to agree, but much of this is public regulations and regulations. So here we just get to play on layers and try to find good solutions that balance these different visions. So far, this has been a success. Although we have had some years of negative development in the numbers, the whole maritime strategy – we have to say – has been a formidable success story. The maritime industry is mountainous in Norway. We're going to deal with the tough times now with the measures we came into revision, and then we're going to work with the parties to make the most appropriate legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3027	The share of ships in foreign registers on Norwegian continental shelf is only increasing. About half of the offshore vessels on Norwegian base are registered in the registers of other countries, representing a flagging potential of more than 100 ships. Why will the Council of State not then ensure that these vessels in NIS are able to undertake missions to and from installations on a Norwegian base?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3032	As this debate has so far shown, the design of the legislation and the different NIS and NOR systems is the result of a balancing of several different interests. One of these reasons is that Norwegian seafarers, especially in Norwegian waters, should have good working and pay conditions. We have to make sure that our register system does not contribute to social dumping and maybe undermines the whole foundation because we have many Norwegian seafarers. This is an important industry, and it also means a lot to clusters. I'm a little surprised that the representative doesn't see these dilemmas, but he has such a great conclusion. Because here too, many of the opposition parties are in line with the government in being able to see the dilemmas – that these are difficult balances, and there are no natural solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3037	Of course, I see the challenges you mention, but it must also be a challenge for the Council of State when so many ships leave the registers – not only the NIS register, but also the NOR register. It can't be good for Norwegian seafarers that these ships are flagging out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3042	We want to have as many ships as possible under the Norwegian flag, and make a pretty active effort to get to it. As I said in my main post, we don't have to look blindly at the numbers from year to year, we have to look at the evolution over time, and then this has been a great success. We're still one of the world's largest shipping nations, and we have the ambition to stay there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3047	I have registered that the Council of State is working hard to get more people to fly home, and so is NIS. It's positive. But at the same time, I record that shipowners who chose to stay in Norway and not fly out – for a few years ago, in 1996 and around that time – and built up the maritime cluster, which has contributed very strongly to the fact that we have the clusters that we have today in a great, proud industry, now in a way to be punished with a shipping tax because they have been at home. While others who flag home go into the new tax system without paying anything, those who were here have to pay taxes. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is going to be an unfair arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3052	I cannot see that it is unfair that those who had accumulated tax liabilities must pay some of it, and those who had not earned it must not pay. That's the way it must be, because shipping companies, new ships entering the new NIS regime and shipping companies, can't be taxed according to old rules. I believe that the proposal that the Ministry of Finance and the Government has now come up with is a reasonable proposal. It involves a tax payment of over 4 billion. kr. The shipping industry itself recorded a proposal at the base of 3 billion. kr, I think it was. So if you think that the starting point in the Supreme Court was a sum of about 20 billion. kr, where one third were to go to environmental investments, we have to say that we are very close to what the Swedish Shipowners themselves operated on. Then most people should really be happy to get into a new system that we think is very competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3057	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3075	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be a change of line after the speakers who have the floor within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3084	The right considers it easy to start, operate and own business in Norway and that the objective must be to reduce administrative costs. There is a full understanding within the Committee that public rules, forms and directives should, as a general rule, have a well-meaning purpose. At the same time, we know that this often leads to unnecessary reporting requirements and complex regulations for businesses. The proposers take this seriously when they demonstrate that creating a more effective regulatory framework and reducing the administrative burden on businesses will release the time and resources available for business start-ups and to further develop existing businesses. It is therefore disappointing that the parties to the government do not support the proposal. Especially disappointing is it when we know that Norwegian businesses spend 54 billion dollars. kr for reporting as a result of Norwegian rules and form loading. It is pointed out in the proposal that the need for business simplification is not a curious phenomenon, and that Sweden established the Governing Council in 2009 to assist management in the process of business simplification. The Council of Ministers, which will work until 31 December 2010, can already see a significant improvement – after one year. Some of the tasks assigned to the Board of Regulators were to verify the consequences of new rules and changes to existing rules, with the aim of cutting the administrative costs of the companies by 25 pst. by the end of 2012. They shall also assess the design of proposals for new rules and amendments to existing rules and decide whether management has carried out adequate impact assessments of the rules. They shall make sea-going assessments of whether the rules achieve their desired effect in as simple and cost-effective a manner as possible. Last but not least, they should follow developments in general with regard to the government's work on business simplification and provide advice and information to promote cost-effective regulation and regulation. It is very regrettable that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee says that he does not consider it appropriate to set up a regulatory board on a model from Sweden, despite the fact that we know with certainty that reporting requirements and comprehensive nutrition legislation are burdensome also for Norwegian businesses, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The right-hand side has a long job to reduce the public burden on value creation. In Document No: 8:7 for 2008-2009, we promoted proposals in the Stortinget to reduce the administrative costs of businesses. We already took up experience from Sweden at the time and thought that Norway should quickly introduce what we mentioned as a simplification council. The fact that the government parties are only careful to refer to the Action Plan Time for Innovation and Production, as the government presented in August 2008, I think it is a pity, especially given that the plan of business was described as a little ambitious. Unfortunately, after that, it turned out that business was right. The government, with its four Ministers of Industry in the row, has failed to reduce the form field, despite the fact that they, in broad order, are also boasting of their own simplification work. I would urge the Council of State to take the businesses seriously and introduce a similar body that can contribute to simplification for Norwegian business as well. In doing so, I take up the proposal of an overall opposition, where the Stortinget asks the government to establish its own regulatory board as soon as possible according to the model of the corresponding body in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3103	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3106	We all agree on the intention that we need a good and simple regulatory framework, which takes on an important social dimension while not imposing unnecessary burdens on business. Then we don't agree if it's right to take a blue copy of what Sweden has, a rule board. If we are to have a rule board, we need to build a new secretariat, and we need representatives/governments to review all new rules to control the effect of new rules before they come into force. In the Action Plan Time for innovation and production, as proposed by the government in August 2008, more than 120 measures were introduced to reduce their administrative costs to businesses. In order to take into account the smaller enterprises, the action plan highlighted the need to assess, in all cases, whether the legislation could be differentiated between small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. In a long way, this means that we are doing a lot of what the board of rules should do. The role of the Board of Governors is to verify the consequences of new rules and changes in existing rules. However, when we say that we will follow developments in Sweden on the regulatory board carefully, it is precisely because we are concerned about learning from other countries. Reporting, legislation and business form shall contribute to the achievement of the objective. Powers must thus continue to pay constant attention to whether the benefits of new requirements are proportionate to the cost. I share the Minister’s view that it may be useful to set concrete targets for reducing this burden, but the most important thing is that we do not propose new measures without the consistency of how this is done for businesses at cost, in terms of work compared to the purpose of control. After the red-green government took over in 2005, we have managed to reduce the form reporting by over 1,100 year-olds. We have also set up a dedicated strategic council for small and medium-sized enterprises that have started their work. The preparation of impact assessments prior to decisions is at least as good a tool as an ex post review of the impact of decisions. That's why the multiple doesn't go in to create a rule board.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3123	Document 8:61 S for 2009-2010 on the establishment of a separate regulatory board is a good and for industry a desired proposal, because today’s form fields are large, it is complex, it is expensive, and not least it takes a lot of time. For small enterprises with small margins in particular, this is a heavy burden. Many forms do not take into account whether you are a large or small enterprise, but must be filled in by everyone in any case. It goes without saying that the burden on the small company becomes disproportionate, and that is most of them in Norway — small and medium-sized enterprises. The progress batch has been involved in this all year and has tried to simplify the system. The Progress Party promoted, inter alia: Document No 8:83 for 2005-2006 to establish a cooperation programme to reduce the burden on business and the public sector and subsequent Documents 8:15 S for 2009-2010 on simplifications in reporting, forms and regulations for business. This area is a matter that is subject to unfair day-to-day conditions, and it should be easy to make adjustments. The main business organisation supports the proposal by letter of 12 March 2010. It is also worth noting the National Audit Office’s 2005 survey, where it is said that ‘the state’s legislative work on business is largely lacking’. The Ministry of Industry says: ‘It has long been clear that the investigation of economic and administrative consequences has often been of varying quality. This applies in particular to the impact on enterprises and on value creation. Inadequate investigation of the economic impact on business is not primarily due to lack of formal requirements for the investigations, but to the fact that the requirements are not properly complied with in practice.» There are many well-established companies in Norway, but there are also many people around the country who have a good idea of creating something. But the barrier is too big for them to dry, will or can realize the dream of their own job, preferably in cooperation with others. There is no doubt that a large form field is part of this barrier. The objective of reducing the administrative costs of the form field by at least 25 pst. by 2012 should be possible to reach. In 2009, Sweden established the Governing Council to assist the management of business simplification. The task of the Board of Governors is to verify the consequences of new rules and amendments to existing rules. Even one year after the establishment of the Board of Regulators, the Swedes can see a significant improvement. The Swedish Governing Council is an independent advisory body, subject to the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs. On 16 June 2009, the current County of Hedmark, then Minister of Economic Affairs, Sylvia Brustad, sent out a press release promising that a sample would be set up to look at simplifications in the Norwegian legislation. Very little has happened. Now it must also be said, in the name of justice, that other business ministers and other ministers, too, have promised similar without so much happening. But there's no excuse for business. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling to avoid red figures. When it is known that the costs incurred by the Norwegian industry in the form field are staggering 54 billion. kr, we can see that frustration is quite high among many companies. The time and money they could spend on production and development must be spent in the office or in contracted professional assistance to fill out the boxes in the form correctly. If they don't, or if the number is wrong, fines and what's worse are threatened. For the Progress Party, it is strange that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, will not look into this and learn from the Swedish success in this area. In a letter of 12 March 2010 from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade at the Council of State, I record that experience from Sweden and other countries that have put in place similar schemes is being closely followed. The party’s perception of what is happening in these countries is that it has been a success. On the other hand, that letter states that the Council of State does not consider it appropriate to establish a regulatory council on a model from Sweden. It seems the Progress Party is a pity, precisely because it could perhaps help the companies that are struggling with the form field, so that time could have been spent, as I said, more productively.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3143	It is an important issue for the representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden to address. It is important that businesses can use their energy for production and value creation and not spend too much time on bureaucracy and administration. In a modern society and in an organized working life, there is a need for some laws and regulations. These include: necessary to safeguard the interests of the Community, the environment and their addition. In a society without rules, the strong one is right. But there is no doubt that today we have an unnecessaryly complex regulatory framework. When the legislation becomes too complicated and too extensive, it doesn't feel the purposes it's meant to be. We often find that different levels go a little way in each other's legs. Each rule may make sense, but when it's put on top of each other, it's going to be a big bureaucracy. As we have been in the past today, the government has taken up this issue, among other things. in the Action Pack Time for innovation and production. Since the red-green government took over, the work on reporting forms has been reduced by over 1,100 years. There is no simple grip that can solve the challenge we face. We find it difficult to see that setting up a new council outside the control of government and big business, which one here has been busy with earlier today, is going to be a guarantee against red tape. If we're going to get a simplification, it's going to have to bet wide, and it's going to have to bet on a lot of fields, as the government has added up. Good electronic services are an important step in that context, as we have seen in the Altin bet. If we are to achieve results in simplification, it is important to have good contact with those who know the problems of the body. Therefore, the government has created strategic advice for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very important to maintain that dialogue high on the agenda and take active action in the further simplification process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3154	It is essential that the government is constantly in close dialogue with industry in order to improve the conditions of business in Norway. As the Council of State also refers to in its reply letter, the government is looking at the issues that are already ready to deal with quickly in the departments. Therefore, rather than setting up a regulatory board now, it is more important to take concrete action immediately. At the same time, I would like to point out that the rapporteurs have good points in the proposal that has been promoted and that we in the Central Party have noticed these. The Government also presented an action plan in August 2008, entitled ‘Time for innovation and production’. The action plan contains more than 120 measures to reduce the administrative costs of enterprises. A particularly important emphasis here is to assess whether new legislation can be differentiated between small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises have completely different challenges than large enterprises. This is going to be the government's focus in the future, and it's also been the topic here in the Chamber earlier today. The centre party will continue to work to simplify laws and regulations, eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and legislation and reduce the level of taxation in the business world, so that the business community as a whole is more competitive in international markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3163	As we have heard, Sweden established the Council of Ministers in 2008 to assist the management of business simplification. The task of the Board of Governors is to verify the consequences of new rules and amendments to existing rules. The Board of Governors shall work until 31 December 2010 and the aim is to cut the administrative costs of the companies by a total of 25 pst. by the end of 2010. Even one year after the establishment of the Board of Regulators, the Swedes can see a significant improvement. Here we have to listen, and here we have to learn. Like the proposers, the Christian People's Party believes that Norway should establish a similar council. We need an independent body to control the impact of new rules and changes to existing rules before they come into force. We therefore support the proposal that a regulatory board be set up in Norway as soon as possible, following the model of the corresponding body in Sweden. According to the NHO, the administrative burdens on industry are relatively similar to those of 10 years ago. They're supposed to cost the companies about 57 billion. kr annually. That's a big sum. This particularly affects those over 99 pst. by small or medium-sized enterprises. These companies are Norway's backbone. They are important to the districts and to people most. It is important for these companies to be able to spend time on what they are going to spend, rather than be involved in ever-increasingly new laws and regulations that weigh them down and bottle them up for competitiveness. The Christian People's Party believes that many public rules, forms and injunctions lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complicated legislation. For the Christian People's Party, it is a key task of industrial policy to simplify the everyday life of these businesses by abolishing unnecessary laws and regulations and simplifying reporting through increased use of Internet-based solutions, such as: Alternating. We will follow up ‘Simplify Norway’ with a practical approach, in dialogue with business. That is why we support the Left's proposal to set up a regulatory board, instead of waiting for measures that we do not know about to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3176	Let me begin by expressing joy at the fact that both the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party wholeheartedly support the Left's proposal for a separate Norwegian Rule Council according to the Swedish model. Let me also express similar disappointment at the government parties, who are voting against the opposition's proposal without arguing with particular political substance, but with the ever-recurring lesson that something is going on in the government. For the Left, it is a political objective that it should be easy to start, operate and own business in Norway. The aim must be to reduce administrative costs arising from rules and form fields by at least 25 pst. by 2012. The aim must also be to create a tangible and measurable change for the better in the company's everyday lives. By creating a more effective regulatory framework, thus reducing the administrative burden on businesses, time and resources that can instead be used for business start-ups and to further develop existing enterprises, which have been in the hands of several. Simplification of rules does not mean removing rules that are necessary for, for example: environment and health. It is a reasonable assessment of the appropriateness of existing legislation in relation to the administrative burdens and requirements that they bring with them or whether this can be simplified. It is my claim that legislation and administrative burdens can almost only become simpler and yet achieve their purpose. Norwegian business spends 54 billion. kr for reporting, as a result of Norwegian rules and form loading. Achieved target of 25 pst. reduction, that means more than 13 billion. are released for business start-ups and further development by Norwegian enterprises. As a measure to achieve such a reduction, the Left has a view to Sweden, where they have established their own regulatory board as an important tool to achieve their corresponding 25 p.m. target. Experience so far is only positive. And the 2009 annual report states that, as a consequence of the establishment of the Swedish Business Council, Swedish business laws and regulations have been significantly improved in a short time. I therefore see it as reasonably inconsistent when the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee: ‘We follow the experience of Sweden and other countries that have put in place similar schemes carefully. We need a sound and simple regulatory framework that ensures important societal interests while not imposing unnecessary burdens on business.’ At the same time, he concludes that it is not ‘appropriate to establish a ‘rule’ board’ in Norway. The following facts are indisputable: Business costs related to form fields and compliance with legislation have only been reduced by 0,5 pst. in the last three years – under this government. It's despite repeated promises of a powerful simplification. The government has both promised to reduce its own sample, which will look at how the simplification of the Norwegian legislation can be implemented, and to quantify a concrete target for simplification in Norway. There is no traceable propulsion in any of these promises. And at the top of it all, the government can't use the money that Stortinget has given to the momentum in the development of the ALTIN solution, which has been a theme several times here today. 55 million. kr was unused in 2009 in the individual measure to which the government and government parties largely refer when specific simplification measures are sought. The Swedish Council of Rules works. I 43 pst. in these cases, the Board of Regulators has rejected legislative proposals for Swedish business because the legislator has not been able to justify the choice of the simplest administrative solution. In view of the government's documented lack of results in the area of simplification, it is clear that we can need an independent body that can control the impact of a new regulatory framework and changes in existing ones before they are applied to business – not as the representative Heggø wrongly said, that it was in retrospect. In Sweden, such a Board of Regulators is one of the main steps of the Swedish Government to achieve the objective of cutting the administrative costs of enterprises in terms of regulation and form load by 25 pst. Unfortunately, at home we have a government and a large number of people who are so happy to have reduced administrative costs by 0.5 pst. in three years, that unfortunately we can only dream of having similar conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3213	It is crucial for our value creation that companies are allowed to spend their time on the production and service they are good at and on which they earn money. That is why I am concerned that the companies and their owners should have good and predictable framework conditions. The proposers point out that Sweden has set up an independent body, the Governing Council, which is responsible for assisting the administration in the process of simplifying rules for business. The Board of Regulators may, inter alia: verify the impact assessments of the departments. In the simplification process, we sometimes experience that we need to balance systems that are “good to have” for public authorities and take into account the simplest possible business environment. I may feel that we are facing some of the same thing in this case, that it would certainly be “good to have” a regulatory board, but that we do not yet know whether the need is sufficient to create a new body. We have many ways of achieving good business framework conditions, and perhaps not even more bureaucracy or more detours before a decision is taken, the right one. We need legislation that takes care of important societal interests, while not becoming unnecessarily burdensome to those who have to comply with it. As Minister of Industry, I will work to meet the needs of the business community. The balance between social and perceived pressures on business is therefore very important to me. I think the problems need to be sorted and solved as closely as possible to those who have the opportunity to do something with them. In Norway, we have clear demands in the investigation manual that economic impacts be assessed for those affected by a case. Each department is responsible for following this inquiry manual on the development of business impact assessments. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is particularly concerned that the impact of changes in legislation or new rules is adequately addressed. It's important to listen to the advice we get from business. A large part of my work day is filled with conversations with businesses and business organisations. We have different advice and bodies that regularly report on how small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the largest, experience public legislation. This work discusses both overall framework conditions and concrete issues with businesses and business organisations. The aim is to get the most input at the earliest possible time, including with regard to the experience of legislation. I would also like to mention that in Norway we have a good and long tradition of bringing stakeholders to advice through the consultation institute. This ensures that business is heard in matters relating to them. This transparency of administration is not as well incorporated in all other European countries. As far as I know, we have no indication that the way Norway organises work on impact assessments for business is not working well enough. It is that the rules on how to carry out impact assessments are clear, but it may also be that they have not always been properly complied with. We have therefore come to the conclusion that a separate regulatory board is not now necessary to make Norway a good country to start, operate and own a business. But as we also say in the letter to Stortinget, we are going to follow the newly established Swedish Council of Rules and draw turns on the experience that the Swedes are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3236	That's exactly the last thing I thought I'd ask a little bit about and get an explanation for, because in the letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, at the Council of State, dated 12 March 2010, it says the following: ‘We follow experience from Sweden and other countries that have put in place similar schemes carefully.’ My question will then be: why will the Council of State spend so much time and energy following developments in a country when it is so clear that it is not necessary to have such a rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3246	In my view, it is important to learn from others. The Swedish Governing Council is relatively new – established in 2008 – so the Swedish have also had quite a short time to learn about this. In the United Kingdom, an independent advice has recently been established to advise the government on the cost-benefit ratio of the legislation. In the Netherlands, it has been done in a slightly different way, so that we have to keep track of what other European countries are doing in terms of simplification in general, but also in terms of formalising ways of getting input from those affected. We have the Hearing Officer, as I mentioned in my main post, who probably goes far beyond how many other countries have. This is how we see different European countries organizing themselves in different ways, but it is equally very important and useful to see and learn from what others do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3253	Together with a number of others, I think it was nice to hear the Council of State signaling at the NHO Annual Conference that he would set a numerical goal for the simplification work. I am a little more uncertain about this when I read his letter to the Committee on this matter, because then he goes on to discuss a little that there are many prerequisites for determining this specific objective, things have to be investigated and issues can be complex and even have to be addressed in a public body. Now, earlier today, we've talked about a number of individual things, of which I understand that some are quite complex. But this is precisely to set a numerical target that the Council of State promised at the annual conference – how long will it take?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3260	We are committed to simplifying and improving efficiency in a simple and effective way, so that we can set such a target as quickly as possible. One of the things we see when we're working on this is that the estimate is at a point between 50 and 60 billion. kr in administrative costs for enterprises consists of many different elements. One thing is tax rules and public rules that are related to this. Another element is all that statistical central agency needs to report for information. So it's also part of this that's corporate stuff, which is actually to some extent also important for the company's value creation. Removing processes and administrative tasks that are actually important for value creation is the last thing we want. So we have to map this in a good way and then have to set concrete targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3267	I now hear that the Council of State does not want to figure out, but can he say something about the size of the company that he can imagine can be cut in the administrative costs of the companies? He must have made some reflections around the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3272	I want to say that the ambition is the most possible, so we're going to put a number that's achievable and realistic while it's ambitious. As I said in my previous answer, there are some of these administrative costs that are also linked to the company's value creation, which of course must continue, otherwise it will actually weaken the company. It is also the case that some grips have already been done by Norway. I mentioned earlier, Altin, which is a great grip that has efficiency potential in itself, so some of that benefit we have already provided. We will be as ambitious as possible and try to ensure that Norway is a good country for business. We know very clearly that small and medium-sized enterprises experience this as a heavy burden because, in some contexts, they are exposed to the same legislation or reporting field as large enterprises, while having much less resources to help them do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3283	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3288	What got me to take the floor was that the representative Tenden continues to say black paint of the state of the companies in Norway, and it all without commenting that Norway has come through the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Policy advice: The important thing is that the measures we have taken involve real improvements for business. The government has a policy of consistency at the forefront of legislative changes. The left is that they want to build up the bureaucracy with a new rule board, which will check the legal rules after they have been adopted. I shall quote from the proposal: «The task of the Board of Governors is to verify the consequences of new rules and amendments to existing rules.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3304	It's going to be an interpretation question, but it's actually not as Hegø has perceived it. It's not. And so: I'm also traveling around to some businesses, just like the Council of State does. The first thing they say to me is just this about cutting company administrative costs. That's the first thing they say. Then there is often transportation. As I said in my post, business spends 54 billion. kr for reporting. Despite these 120 measures, which have been boasted several times here today, one has not managed to reduce it more than by 0.5 pst. Then we've talked about the sunset legislation, which I felt Hegø ruled a little bit with here instead. There was something this government abolished that could have been an instrument. Promises and rules would apply max for ten years, and then you would look at them. If they were up-to-date, they would have to be re-adopted if they were not present, they would have to be dropped. So the Left has really suggested more positive, concrete things, and I'm sorry it's not being followed up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3336	In my home country, More and Romesdal, many people experience it as if the government actively counters people and businesses that are struggling with high electricity prices and closed roads. After the interpellation was promoted, the government has finally provided a rescue package for the maritime industries after much pressure from the opposition and the industry. That there will be action now, is good, and it is high time. On Thursday 15 April, the VG had an article about Crown Prince Haakon’s visit on board the innovative seismic vessel Polarcus Asima in Dubai. The title was «Norwegian all». The article referred to a vessel which may break through 1 metre of thick ice. The vessel is designed by Ulstein Group and is stacked with high-tech equipment from the maritime cluster on More. The Norwegian maritime offshore industry with strong demands for safety, the environment and ergonomics received much praise from the Polarcus shipping company. Tore Höifødt, Information Director of the Norwegian Veritas in Asia, believes that it gives ‘the shipping company an international quality stamp when so much of the ship has Norwegian signature’. He says the following: «Norwegian offshore technology and design is the International State of the Art.» This places great demands on us as politicians and on predictable and good framework conditions. It shows that there is a need to focus more on innovation, research and development, and it shows the amazing creativity and competence of industry along the coast, skills that need to be maintained and further developed. But unfortunately, the government has turned to the tax screw, reduced the tax FUNN scheme and reversed the depreciation rules on new machines, new technologies that are important for businesses to have a economy for renewal. The paint industry is struggling with the filling of empty order books. Nevertheless, according to the industry, the government’s so-called yard package is missing, and significant measures such as stronger efforts on environmentally friendly and gas-powered ships. It is the value creation of all the small and large enterprises in the country that provides the basis for well-being. Any governing government must have a policy that takes full account of the framework conditions that must be provided to strengthen businesses and secure jobs. For many company workplaces, the red-green government is synonymous with tax consolidation. Sharpening is, therefore, a covering key for the government. The limitation of ownership is reinforced. The housing obligation is tightened up, resulting in an increasing number of farms being left empty. The local authorities' right to drive in the hundreds of feet belt and the so-called beach zone is inculcated. Hydropower resources have become more nationalised. It affects investments and jobs along the coast and results in almost impossible for farmers and landowners to set up small-scale power plants as a reintroduction. Despite the alarming lack of new renewable energy, more and more farmers and landowners have to give up the dream of their own small power plant. The interpellation was intended to address and show the overall challenges facing industry and industry in More and Romesdal. So far, I have almost not mentioned the lack of energy and the price range that has sometimes given extremely high electricity prices and shut-down companies. The debate on the lack of energy cannot often be taken sufficiently, as the government's slowdown in taking action in this area is quite serious. In the energy crisis matter, the government does not even listen to its own staging representatives or to the LO – who have made several plays – and reality descriptions in the media. One can also ask the following questions: what helps to create jobs and produce goods when tribal roads and other roads into and out of the county are closed by snow and rocked due to a lack of maintenance and racial protection? The ash cloud from Iceland should have given us all a waker. There is reason to think new and act quickly, because in our part of the world there is not even a bad railway as an alternative when the road is closed and the planes are ashtrayed. One week after the E136 export route across the Örskog mountain towards the Romsdalen was closed by snowfall for several days, the ash cloud came from the volcano on Iceland and airstop. It was a miracle that it did not happen at the same time. In that case, it would have been a disaster for the region. We don't have any other exit veins. The ash hit all the country’s airports correctly, but it hit extra hard in the districts where there are no alternative modes of transport such as rail or access to more maritime transport. After the forces of nature showed their strength, I am strengthened in my belief that the option of more goods across the sea will be both forward-looking and environmentally friendly. In addition, the region must have access to the use of speedboats along the coast when the City Ship Tunnel is hopefully in place. But in that case too, unfortunately, the Stoltenberg government is, for the time being, the brake pad. Geiranger is on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and Hotel Union is the cornerstone of the small village, which has 230 inhabitants. They depend on open roads to carry tourists and other visitors out and in from the spring. Annually, there are several breeds on the only all - year road that is the one connected to the area, rv. Sixty-three. The holding calculated a loss of nearly 2 million. kr annually as a result of race and closed roads. This is very much for a small family business that is levied annually on property taxes to the country, regardless of operating profit. When the oldest daughter of today's driver is ready to take over the generation company, she will not have the money to handle it because of the inheritance fee. Therefore, nice generation companies are in danger of being bought up by the big chains. And where is the security of the world heritage area, which is denied annual police during the tourist season despite 700,000 visitors? If someone goes away and hurts in the mountains, traffic accidents occur in the steep Eagle Wings, or if it goes snow or rocks across the road, is built cut off from the outside world and without access to the police and ambulance. I have been bad, one can often not use the boat either. This probably sounds quite impulsive, but that’s the fact – that’s just how it feels. And I know that in Geiranger you are very confused about the situation they experience every summer, when there are so many tourists present and they lack the police. As for the challenges for the Geiranger World Heritage Site, I've actually addressed it many times, and I've tried to deal with it with several government councils, because I think it's a special area. It is a world heritage area, a tourist area for which several state councils should really have a responsibility. It's simply a national responsibility. I want to ask the Travel Life Council if he, as the Travel Life Council, has enough influence in the government to address these problems. I sincerely hope for a positive answer, because I might start getting a little tired of recording Geiranges so many times. But I feel like there's something that I just have to do further, because I think they have big challenges. And I hope Geiranger will be allowed to continue to develop positively. There is one of several enterprises that have many challenges — with electricity, with the transport bit and with the framework conditions in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3367	Let me first say a little humorous that after hearing this misery description of More and Romsdal, I must be glad that my father got that place of study at NTH at the end of the 1950s and got out before it was too late. If you were to be presented to More and Romesdal with the post that was just made, there had to be a lot of people who thought that there was a mess here. The truth is, of course, the opposite; More and Romsdal are not only an amazingly beautiful state and a good state to live in, but also – according to the figures – a very strong business community. Good conditions for the competitive industry in Norway generally occupy me, but in Møre and Romsdal we also see very many of the industries, the fantastic businesses that Norway lives on. More and Romesdal are simply an important industrial group that has actually proven better through the financial crisis than many other states in the country that has proven better than most other countries through the financial crisis. More and Romsdal are actually one of the best states in one of the best countries in the world. There can't be any bad characteristics. So we know that More and Romesdal have some industries that are extra exposed to the international crisis. In More and Romesdal, significant parts of Norwegian competitively exposed industry are represented. Maritime and offshore industries are strongly present in this part of the country. The furniture industry is the largest in the country and contributes to putting Norwegian quality on the map around the world. The county also has Norway's largest aluminiumworks. In addition, More and Romesdal, measured in value creation, are Norway’s largest sea-mattress. These figures, of course, tell us that unless the industrial policy in Norway has worked elsewhere, it has at least worked in More and Romesdal. Here it has really led to Moors and Romesdal being a powerful and powerful state. But we know that where export markets are now disappearing or have been severely reduced, export-oriented companies are also facing challenges. The process industry, which is heavily dependent on international commodity prices, is among the industries that have marked the financial turmoil and the international economic downturn. The aluminiumworks in Sunndal have marked this. Aluminium prices fell by 60 pst. The aluminium export from Norway went down by 36 pst. Now, fortunately, we see signs of improvement, both in terms of prices, and in terms of demand, and that's positive. And as we know, Hydro's recent efforts were made to secure future access to raw materials, which hopefully also benefits Norwegian production. The government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the negative impact of the financial turmoil. The measures have benefited the industry exposed to competition. Concrete examples are flexible permitting schemes, temporary tax reliefs by re-establishing deficits against profits for previous years and increasing the investment in education and skills in enterprises. The capital market measures and the reduction of interest rates have also meant a great deal. The aim of the measures has been to strengthen the business environment out of the financial turmoil. At the same time, maritime and offshore industries have received special attention through the revised national budget, with a number of measures to help Norwegian shipyards and maritime equipment suppliers over a tough period of time. After recording from both GIEK, Innovation Norway, Export finance and many others, we received a package that included: involves 10 billion. SEK more in GIEK's guarantee schemes, 200 million. kr in increased innovation loans from Innovation Norway and a number of other maritime sector schemes. Let me reveal a secret. None of these measures apply only in More and Romesdal; they apply throughout Norway. But many of them will benefit More and Romesdal in particular, because More and Romesdal have industries, businesses, which have special benefits from these measures. We have also contributed to strengthening the maritime research and innovation effort. In order to stimulate networks and clusters, Innovation Norway, in cooperation with the Norwegian Research Council and SIVA, has developed the Arena and Norwegian Centre of Expertise programmes. More and Romesdal have a heavy maritime environment. It is therefore not accidental that NCE Maritime has been added to Ålesund. The interpellant points to many concrete framework conditions that are of importance for industry. Much of this lies under other government councils, but I can assure you that both the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Oil and Energy, the Minister of Knowledge, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and many others are concerned with the framework conditions for business, including road development, racial security, the power situation and all the other issues raised by the interpellant. The power situation in Central Norway is well known from my own state, which is in the same boat as the More and Romsdal. There is no doubt that one of the main reasons for this was the landing of the Worm Lange gas without at the same time facilitating good energy solutions. It was a former government that stood for it. It's done, and it's history. We now need to find good solutions for both transmission systems, for extra power generation and energy saving measures to improve the power balance in central Norway, and for the challenges – not only for industry but also for the general population – to be solved. In More and Romesdal, among other things, a strong commitment to renewable energy. Here we find Norway's largest wind farm run by Statekraft on Smøla. The county has also granted a concession to Norway’s first sea wind farm. Havsul I is planned in the sea areas outside the municipality of Sandøy. The initiative not only increases power generation but also offers exciting opportunities for industrial and industrial development. We also implement measures to strengthen the power supply to the power-intensive industry. In order to support the conclusion of commercial power contracts, we are working to put in place a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industries and have also put in place a subsidy scheme for industrial enterprises establishing joint purchasing consortia. Also in the field of racial protection, an area under another state council, the government has done a lot. Racial protection is an important area of government activity and the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 provides for a historical focus on racial protection. This is provided that during the period 2010 to 2019 1 billion will be granted. kr per year for specific racial protection measures. Within this framework, a wide range of projects are planned to be carried out on both the national and county roads. Of this great effort, the government has committed several major racial protection projects on the highways of More and Romesdal in the first four years of the national transport plan. I think the results speak for themselves. Employment in Norway is much better than in most countries with which we can compare. When we look at the crisis that Europe is now in, that the United States has been through and, hopefully, maybe is coming out of, we have results in Norway that we can be very proud of. And fortunately, these results are also well visible in the excellent and good, beautiful state of Mora and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3401	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer – a thorough answer – and I would also like to thank him for the praise he gave to More and Romsdal County. I fully agree that we have an amazing state, a great nature – wonderful to live and live in – and we have a wonderful business life. For that very reason, I tried to find some challenges that the business community and people in More and Romesdal are struggling with. I am aware that the challenges may be as difficult other places as well, but it is my duty to take up what I see in our home country and in the region around, and in particular I got a bump when I experienced closed roads right before Easter and this ash cloud that came after. The reason why I reacted was that we now have to think about alternative options. Had these two accidents happened at the same time – I call it accidents, there are natural disasters in each way – the county of More and Romesdal would have been totally trapped. We didn't have planes, and we didn't have an exit shaft where we could transport our goods and people back and forth. It scares me, and it makes me think that we need to take a serious look at this and put in place alternative modes of transport quickly – full upgrading of the export route E136 to avoid race there, and we should have the coastal line E39, and preferably also the City Ship Tunnel. I must admit that I am a little envious on the rest of the coast where they can take the quick boat from Stavanger and Haugesund up to Bergen, from Bergen to Nordfjord, but then it stops. Then you can proceed from Kristiansund to Trondheim. But between Nordfjord and Kristiansund there is a stop, and that's because it's a difficult sea area, and it also prevents us from sending more of our goods on the sea. It would have been very positive if you could put into place City Ship Tunnel – as at least the Right has ordered – and that the government could support it, then we would have had a good alternative for us along the coast in the form of a private boat and a speedboat, and also for our freight traffic. Misuse description – I heard it sail – but it was not a misdemeanor description of the county as it is today. It was a description of what I fear can happen if we don't now get any grip fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3410	I am pleased that we have jointly remedied the impression of the Mora and Romesdal states. The last time I was there, even the mainland connection to Vigra, Valderøy, Giske and Godøy was paid down, so now the bomb was gone. It must be a pleasure for everyone. That's how we see the world going forward, but at the same time, the ash cloud is probably a reminder that we're still victims of natural forces. We have lived with nature for all centuries, and this has not least been experienced along the coast – also in More and Romesdal – but fortunately we are innovative. We are developing both technologies and solutions that make us handle this in an increasingly better way. Getting freight traffic from road to train and ship is a strategy that the government is following. The various transport projects in detail, I think, should be left to possible future interpellations on transport issues in Møre and Romesdal County, or questions on different occasions to the Minister for Transport. But that the framework conditions for business can continue to be even better and continue to be renewed and developed, for the benefit of the strong industry and the strong maritime cluster, not least, but also in view of the tourism potential that is on our shores, not least in More and Romesdal, is firmly established, and that government must follow up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3417	The competitiveness of Norwegian business is crucial for our well-being. Therefore, any debate on competitiveness in business is really important, especially in this room. Now I think the interpellant, at least in its first post, was very negatively focused locally. It was really a strong appeal not to look at More and Romesdal, at least if you were an investor. I would probably have chosen a different strategy if I had a corresponding state interpellation about my own state. But something was probably fixed up in the last post from the interpellant, and not least through the view that the Council of State has created for More and Romesdal, as a piece of Norway where you have a lot of great. It was heard from four members of the Committee who are themselves from More and Romesdal, when we were going up for the first committee trip. Then there was the excitement, opportunities and excellent business in More and Romesdal that had to be visited. It was very good for the committee, because it was important. We are living right now in a time when the world is actually shaken by perhaps the worst economic setback in any case in recent history. That's what all of us do. It characterizes every human being who's interested in business. But despite the fact that we live right back then, Norway has a high employment rate. We have low leave – we even have even lower leave than we had in the peak period before the red-green government took over. That's impressive! I'm not going to add it just to political decisions, but it's also important. We have, despite the financial situation, good value creation. In some areas, it could have been better, but we live in a world, in a country where we have order in Norwegian business. There is competitiveness in Norwegian business. There's evidence that the Norwegian arena for playing globally is a good starting point. We have a good economic foundation, we have powerful measures that have been implemented – the last of which is the yard package, which means a lot to the maritime industries. We have a capable and productive business, and we even have, to inform the interpellant about it, an offer in the agricultural negotiations that is directly aimed at some of the agricultural challenges that are in District Norway, including Moor and Romesdal. We have had a strange winter, with a very strange price of electricity. It's not just a Middle Norway phenomenon. It's actually a national phenomenon as well. It was extremely unfavourable with the prices that have been in South Norway, where prices have been so low that it is completely unreasonable, while in Central Norway and in the north we have had very high prices. By no means satisfactory! The long-term solution, which is the only way to provide predictable framework conditions, is to improve the exchange of power within one’s own country and to increase opportunities for reinvestment. That's also the online key. Without a grid, we don't want to attract investments in new power generation. That is why network deployment is very important. But the reasons for the situation are more than just network capacity problems. It is linked to the full phase of industrial development in Central Norway. It is very good for the region, but it now presents challenges in retrospect, because there were no adequate solutions, to which the Council of State was committed, while at the same time shutting down power generation in Sweden. We have to do everything we can to avoid similar situations in retrospect. Then the Web is the most important solution. So the interpellant pointed to a number of other issues. I think I'm going to do it very briefly, but address one issue with regard to the national transport plan. It's a historic bet. No matter what party you come from, it's a historical bet that's now made on transportation. There will still be razed distances, despite the historical effort. Despite the investment, there will also be closed roads in the years to come. We can't afford to do that. There will still be transport challenges, but accusing us of breaking the NTP is a little slow. We have not said that we should grant flats every year in the ten-year period. We have said very clearly that there should be a stepping-up plan in relation to the national transport plan, so that our commitments on the implementation of the NTP are most closely related.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3434	It was a while I wondered where I came from. At least I didn't quite know myself in the situation description, considering where I grew up, and where I've traveled, because More and Romsdal are in many ways a Norway in miniature. More and Romsdal have a fantastic industry. It is one of the foremost in the country in terms of both paint and furniture industries, and it is also one of Norway’s largest food producers. You have an entrepreneurial spirit that is absolutely amazing. I also travel a lot around the county and am impressed that almost no matter where you come from, you find a corner stone company. The committee experienced Olympic Shipping in Herøy, and we've been to the Round Environmental Centre. You can go out to Harøya in Sunnmøre and meet, for example, Inge Huise, who produces some of the world's largest winches, and you can go to Stranda and visit the large Grandiosa factory. Yeah, almost where you're coming from all over the county, it's a grumpy life. It's an amazing state to come from, but I don't think it was the intention of the interpellant to talk down. At least I want to speak up, that is. not ‘up’, but to obtain a description of reality where the map is more appropriate to the terrain. Of course you have challenges. To the power situation in Middle Norway: I use to mention the whole of Middle Norway, because I think it's going to be wrong to just take one state. We have to try to take the regions as flax and should, and it is clear that Mid Norway has had a special situation in winter – in periods. It is important that we also take into account that it was ‘in periods’, because of course there is a load in the web. It is also true, as the head of the Business Committee, Aasland, pointed out, that network deployment is important. It is therefore important that the Ørskog-Fardal line be treated with care. It is important to look at the transport year – i.e. the core network into the whole region – both via Sweden and from North Norway, but it is also important to look at how to generate new power in the region. If we think of a situation where you, for example, in the case of the Sunndalsøra, start up the furnace series which has been shut down at the aluminium works, and once again increase the demand for power. I also think it is important that we see the widest possible range of challenges we face in the sectors – obviously there are major challenges in the transport sector. I look forward – when we discuss these things – to seeing the regions in a slightly broader perspective. I have to say, of course, there are some things that we don't like in development, for example. that Aalesund's football club has lost two games in a row. It is a considerable burden for our region, but we will get over it. I think it's important that when we talk about business, we focus on a slightly larger field than just a small one. But we have major challenges in terms of transport, how important racial protection is. We have major challenges related to the power situation, and so was the Council of State. I think we're going to have a lot of future debates in each area on these things, and I look forward to discussing it further. But at least one thing is certain: the region up there is a very good place to live. But like any other region, you have challenges, and they have to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3447	The president is fully aware that Molde has lost two games in a row and that Tromsø sports team is leading the elite series.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3450	The worst thing is that Aalesund has also lost two battles, so it's kind of perfect. I agree with the Council of State and the interpellant that More and Romesdal are a great country with great possibilities, but I'm not quite in agreement that it's Trond Giske and their red-green policies that have done it. I think it's a lot of entrepreneurs in More and Romesdal who have got it lined up at a top level when it comes to value creation. I'm from Sogn and Fjordane, and I'm sorry to say I'm familiar with many of the challenges between Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has highlighted. The Stoltenberg government is not doing a good enough job for the people in the state and along the coast. The government likes to present itself as a world champion in environmental and industrial policy. But do they deliver? ‘I would have liked a clearer statement on environmentally friendly ferries and coastal cargo. The same applies to the booking of new coastguard ships.’» The leader of the Maritime Forum Nordvest gave in these words a package of measures for the yard dice throw three, and stated: ‘What disappoints me is the environmental effort on gas and the development of new technologies in this field.’ The desire for more investment in environmental technologies and several gas-powered ferries and other boats are familiar words for Right. So we've added 15 million to our alternative budget. kr for the construction of several gas ferries. That's what I call delivery. Today’s Business April 30 could indicate that more people were disappointed that it was not opened so that GIEK could provide guarantees for all types of ships to Norwegian shipowners. Such a solution could give dearly beloved assignments both to the yard and to equipment manufacturers. ‘The paradox is that Norwegian ferry companies can achieve better organised financing of new buildings in Poland, for example, than in this country. We can provide funding for a ferry project for a shipping company in Portugal, but not for a Norwegian shipping company.’ This quote is from Director Iversen, Simek in Flekkefjord, in Today's Business 24th March. At the same time, we see that the government is weakening its ability to invest and their international competitive position by making a proposal for a fleet tax that challenges the Supreme Court's decision. The proposal penalises the fleet teams that have invested in Norway, and in particular frames the companies that have led environmental investments and bidreg to make the Norwegian maritime cluster and Norwegian shipyards, such as the Norwegian Shipyard. Ulstein, ignorant. The Labour Party's leader in the Finance Committee mocks the shipping industry and claims to keep his nose shut when he hears that the fleet team reacts to the government's rematch. Do we believe the government to keep its nose in contact with more people from the West? In response to the power shortage and the own price range, we have seen companies that have had to shut down production due to high electricity prices. In this case, the government does not listen to its own deposit representatives or to LO. There has been a coherent call in the media in Central Norway from red-green politicians on, among other things. start up mobile gas power plants to bring down the price of electricity. Even red-green politicians from Middle Norway ran away when there was voting here in the hall. Romsdal's Budstikke shows on Monday May 3rd that the Labour Party's Party Secretary Raymond Johansen was given pure words for the money from the Labour Party's group leader in Nesset and the Chief Council of Trust at Hydro in Sunndal, Eivind Torvik. He said, ‘We need assistance from the Party Secretary, the Minister of Industry and the Government.’ Leader of LO in Sunndal prays in a reading in Romesdal's Budstikke on 28 April "Power Roof for Middle Norway". He states the following: ‘Starting new business is probably not so topical or interesting in a state where a lot of business is already struggling economically because of it. the sky-high power costs.’;» The same date in the same newspaper states the leader of the district of More and the Romesdal Senterparti: ‘Møre and Romsdal and Mid-Norway have powerful industries that must have stable framework conditions into the future’.» That's how I could keep ramming up the quotation from the red-greens' own allies in Middle Norway. Unfortunately, this is not a black measurement from the opposition on Stortinget. Right wants to stimulate business in More and Romesdal and in the rest of the country by means of an offensive tax policy and a monetary policy that provides a low interest rate and a competitive price. The most important thing public governance can do to improve the business environment is to build roads and other trades. Right wants to spend more money than the government on road construction. In addition, the Right wants to create a 50-billion maintenance fund. kr, which will be a solid contribution to the follow-up to road maintenance. Right also wants to launch three-five OPS projects a year, and it will speed up a lot of new construction. Among other things, Right would like to implement the construction of City Ship Tunnel as a OPS project. It will be one of the most offensive measures we can put in place on the coast of the North-West.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3508	Since I have kept some of my Western dialect, I dare to take the floor here in this debate. But I'll try to take a look from the great fjords of the West. As I have been in the past today, Norway has been better off through the financial crisis than many other countries. But the financial crisis is now affecting the industry. Part of the aluminium industry is one of those that became a hard frame. Before the crisis, the aluminium industry had very good prices, now they're in a very difficult situation with low prices. The free market price of power, which on the right has been very busy with the introduction, has created major problems for that industry in winter. Maritime industry is another industry that has gone from a situation of strong growth to a situation of order drought. It is difficult to fully compensate for the financial crisis, created by market liberalism and the speculative economy. But the government has put in place a number of measures to mitigate the effects. We have received general measures such as more flexible permissive mechanisms, temporary tax reliefs and increased efforts to improve skills. In addition, we have received a large package for the maritime industry. I don't know how the package was received at More, but in the South, it was received with enthusiasm. The fatherland friend, whom I brought with me here, said it when they got an industrial package: cheers in the southern industry and Christmas Eve for the South. So it surprises me that not those who represent More, can also enjoy the industrial package where one really has taken an important step to get the dynamics back on track in an industry that has a lot of challenges. I actually felt that this package that has been presented for maritime nourishment has very great positive effects for More and Romesdal and for my two counties, I must say, which is Agder. What's surprising is that today the Right-Representative of West-Agder was able to go out and say that there's nothing that matters to Agder in the revised state budget. It's quite alarming when the industry one day says it's Christmas Eve, and the right-wing representative the next day says nothing has happened. Then I have to think about each right-wing representative when it's up to what's going on in the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3523	The interpellant takes up the framework conditions for business in More and Romesdal, and I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave. The centre party and government are subject to good conditions for competitive industry and business organisation. More and Romesdal are an important industrial group with both maritime and offshore industries as well as furniture industries as important industries. More and Romesdal have proven better through the financial turmoil than many other states. Unemployment has been and is lower than the country average, but many enterprises have still faced major challenges. The government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the negative impact of the financial turmoil. The measures have benefited the industry exposed to competition. Maritime and offshore industries are important in More and Romesdal. To a greater extent than for many other industries, there is now a difficult situation in this industry. I myself was travelling in the county in January this year and met representatives of several of the companies in this industry, who underlined the demanding situation. On 29 April this year, the Government presented a series of measures for Norwegian shipyards and maritime equipment suppliers. The Government’s package of measures includes, inter alia: increased frames of 10 billion. kr for the GIEK guarantee scheme and 200 million. kr in increased innovation loans from Innovation Norway and a number of other maritime sector schemes. The interpellant also addresses the question of road betting, and racial protection of roads, in More and Romesdal. In our country, there are many racial road links, and this places a heavy burden on the business community and the population affected. Racial protection is an important area of government activity, and the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 provides for a historical commitment to racial security measures, as explained by the Minister for Transport on a number of occasions. In the period 2010–2019, it is added up to 1 billion. kr per year in specific racial protection measures. Within this framework, a wide range of projects are foreseen both on the national and county roads. Several major racial protection projects are planned on the highways of More and Romesdal in the first four years of the national transport plan. Such an example can be seen from the aggregate proposition made by the government today. That's where the government assumes that one re-disposals 10 million. kr in the framework of entry 31 Racial protection for planning and preparation work at Hjartåberga in the municipality of Volda, so that work can start early in 2011. Another important example of road project in the region is the E39 Kviv Road between Volda in Møre and Romsdal and Hornindal in Sogn and fjordane, which will be completed in the autumn of 2012. The project is under construction, and the construction has progressed faster than planned. The government has therefore granted 80 million. kr in today's revised national budget, so that work can continue without interruption. The project has a total cost framework of approximately $1 billion in 2008. In today's online edition of the Sunnmørspost, a representative of the business community stands out and tells how much this road effort means to his business. These are some examples of government spending on road construction and racial protection — for the benefit of both business and the population throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3545	The interpellant takes up the conditions of competition for the industry in More and Romesdal and points in particular to important areas such as traffic and the power situation in the county. I agree with the interpellant in many of the challenges in the racial community, ferries and road counties with the long-distance fjords. But at one point I do not agree with her, and that is the relaxation she wants on the CO2 requirement for the start-up of gas power plants in France, because it does not match the content of the climate agreement that Right is part of. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway needs a new energy policy that takes over the lessons from Middle Norway. It shall not happen that in a region more consumption than the supply capacity is allowed without the introduction of measures to insure the supply as consumption grows. In the otherwise successful deregulation of the power sector 20 years ago, the authorities entrusted too much of the responsibility to the market, and the administration took a role in confidence that the market mechanisms ensured supply. The Christian People's Party has proposed changes to the Energy Act to strengthen political governance and strengthen the oil and energy minister's responsibility for supply. The red-green government has not wanted to follow up on this. The Christian People’s Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, also proposes that the government develop an action plan with concrete measures to address a supply crisis in power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, and present it to the Stortinget during the spring 2010 session. Mid-Norway is today dependent on imports from Sweden, and we all know the situation in winter, which gave high electricity prices in mid-Norway. We need to be less dependent on Swedish imports, and therefore a rapid clarification in the ministry is important in terms of the question of a new transfer line between Ørskog and Fardal. Business, and especially the powerful industry, have too poor framework conditions. At the same time, there is little doubt that business in our area is also suffering from poor transport solutions. I think it's important to keep up the pressure when it comes to further plans for the coastal route. It's not just in More and Romesdal. The Florø–Målö route is an important part of the project. It is important that the coastal route also south of Florø does not come into the back of the river. We have to look at the totality, because the Christian People's Party is concerned that the whole route between Bergen and Ålesund is seen in a context. Individual projects must be taken in a sensible order, in line with the state's own assessments and priorities. In this area, not least, the City Tunnel is an important project to ensure transport in this area. The coastal route is a large and important project that will mean too many in our area. The value creation along the coast is great, and good communications are crucial for future value creation and settlement. Along the coast, we have come to the fore in terms of road investment, especially in relation to the central East. It would be very important for the industry in More and Romesdal that the Moorax came into place. Then we will have a ferry-free coastal route, and then the journey time between Molde and Ålesund will be less than one hour. 200,000 people live in the Kristiansund–Molde–Ålesund axis, and Møreaksen will gather them in a housing and labour market region. It will be good for businesses, educational and cultural institutions and for contacts between people living in the region. That's why it's important for the Christian People's Party to work for the Moor axis. And as part of the Mortar axis, we also count on the mainland connection to Hareid, which further increases the housing and labour market region and connects large parts of our county, from south to north.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3567	I have to say that the interpellant started with a very bad marketing of More and Romsdal as a travel destination, and I hope that – I would say very much – will be between us. I want to say that in the municipality of Halsa where I grew up, we have a slogan called "know where you thrive", and I think that's a slogan you can use on the whole of More and Romsdal. I'm incredibly proud that I come from this county. It is commendable that you are interested in the business of your home country, but I also feel that it is something navigable when you just talk about this county and all the challenges that lie there. It sounds like the government is working against the business community, and especially in More and Romesdal, and I don't remember that. No later than today, the government is presenting a package of measures for offensive shipyards and equipment suppliers that are important to this industry with major challenges. At the same time, we are presenting a policy of economic governance that continues to provide low interest rates and stable interest rates, which are also important for this industry. The opposition is clearly motivated to complain about the government. But in the case of the ash clouds from Iceland, you can't actually blame the government, and I'm glad that security was prioritised over traffic in this situation. That ash cloud situation shows that we're vulnerable. As far as the financial crisis is concerned, it is incredibly good that we have managed to get through it as well as we have done, not least in More and Romesdal, but also in Norway. And then I want to get to something that's in the interpellation text, that's ‘proposal to attempt to use mobile power plants to mitigate extremely high electricity prices during periods’. I am very concerned with power myself, and the need to increase power generation and better line supply is essential for us in More and Romesdal. But I have my doubts as to whether the power price would be greatly reduced if the mobile gas plants had been started. That's actually maybe the opposite that could happen. But it would have helped with the situation by getting more power. I'm proud to come from More and Romesdal, I know it especially well after the post that Røbekk Nørve has made. And I'm very happy to come from the Workers' Party, because we don't have an empty toolbox to offer business, we actually have an active business policy to come along with. But that doesn't mean that everything is solved, and we have many challenges. The red-green government has actually delivered the package of measures after the package of measures throughout the financial crisis just to keep the wheels running, and the last response I received yesterday. Then I was in the municipality of Nesset, which has been a municipality that has had relatively high leave, but I can report back that the time off is going down, and that is very good. So I think it's done a lot well, even though the challenges are still there, and we have to deal with that in a good way. I think that then it's important to try to look under the dark clouds that we've heard about here, and maybe there's also light in the tunnel for all of these industries that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3589	I have to say that I was somewhat surprised when I saw that this interpellation referred to one concrete state, namely More and Romsdal, as if it were on a general basis having a bigger problem than the rest of the country. I have to admit that I do not know myself in that description. Now there have been many who have described business, among others. the former leader of the Business Committee, Nesvik, who believed that the industry in More and Romesdal is definitely up and running, despite the financial crisis, despite many of the challenges facing the industry. But at one point, I'm going to give the interpellant the right, and it's going to apply to the social challenges that connect to the world heritage area, which is a unique area, and which the government should definitely look at, as well as what Rigmor Andersen Eide also pointed to. She pointed to important projects, as it planned the tunnel between Hareid and Ålesund. But the best measures for happiness in the context of nutrition are, in fact, good framework conditions. This applies not least to the tax regime. There's a lot to learn from biodiesel, which has led companies straight to replace the law. On the tax side, we can see a Supreme Court ruling that applies to the taxation of horse-riders, where the Socialist Left Party singles out the fact that the rider is to be taken, almost as far as possible. It's not exactly that the sailors go man of houses to order new ships in a yard industry that seems to wear empty order books. Furthermore, we can take the net pay scheme, which one still calls a net pay scheme, even though the scheme is weaker than the neighbouring country and represents an income level below SEK 200,000 – in other words, a sub-net pay scheme. This system has been challenged over and over again, and is not easy for the industry, which can move to our neighboring country with a pennessestrain and get considerably better framework conditions there. We can move on to Hydro's facilities on Sunndalsøra, where a third party of the production capacity is connected because of high energy prices and low aluminium prices, but not worse than the fact that the same company chooses to build a giant factory in Qatar, where there is unlimited access to cheap energy and no CO2 charges. That's why it's also important that we match our environmental ambitions with, among other things. Their EU, so that we do not impose extra burdens on our businesses that export the jobs out of the country. There's a good example for Hydro. They are also a good example of environmentally friendly production. No one produces cleaner and more environmentally friendly products than Norwegian aluminium mills. But what are their framework conditions for the future? And is there anyone who feels sure that Su 3 in Sunndal is going to start up again? Many of the copies that have been taken up here are for More and Romesdal, the industrial community of More and Romesdal, but I would like to stress that my concerns do not go into this particular state, as I know that people in this part of the country do not ask for any special package for their part. They ask for general conditions that make it the same everywhere in the country a driving business. That's why the question of what to do for the business community in More and Romesdal is, in many ways, a wrong track in my opinion. It has to be about what can be done for its businesses and businesses in general. Finally, I have an example from yesterday's media. Now the government has come into place and started its day-to-day work, but when it comes to election fighting, an example of where the red-green laws and the truth are approximate. And I quote: «Fremskrittsparteets pottery representative from Nord-Trøndelag, Robert Eriksson and Arild Stokkan-Grande in the middle of the election campaign in August last year, the troops up on Norske Skog Skogn. [[Ap]] [[Ap]] There they appeared as saviors to the industry. It has soon been eight months without a death, says Eriksson to Tronder-Avisa and adds: – They have just appeared to be clowns in the process, and kept Norwegian Forest and the other powerful industry for fools!’ It is precisely this kind of activity that politicians have to stick to too well. Promise that one can hold, and no more than that!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3620	It's wonderful with the temperature in the debate. I have to admit that I had a slightly special feeling about this debate, precisely because the interpellation was relatively narrowly advanced, and also because I expected that I would most likely be here with the Council of State alone. So thank you all for all the great commitment, and not least for all the praiseworthy words about Moor and Romsdal, to which I shall without problem join. Most people have talked about our fantastic business and the industry that we have. Yes, I very much appreciate the fact that the nutrition committee has really come along, and is ready for this. When I sent in the interpellation, it was actually addressed to the Prime Minister. I agree with the Council of State that it is not easy for him to take the full breadth of government. It's about transportation, it's about energy, and it's about other challenges that I raised here. I chose to focus on the whole of the challenges this fantastic state and the business community has to contend with in between. When I did that, it was to be the leader was, given that in the worst case, we could risk being trapped – it was not intended at all to accuse the government of this ash cloud, but it actually only came a week after the main trajectory entered the moor and Romesdal were closed because of the big snow race. That gave me reason to think that we actually have to look at how vulnerable we can be. It's about Katla coming. It's a much larger volcano. Not to create a scare image, but it does not hurt to think that we can be vulnerable in such cases. It could have happened in the worst case that both volcanoes came at the same time. What about business, which everyone has boasted, which we all think is fantastic, and which all of us who live in More and Romesdal, are incredibly rich? It's just this business, it's just Mora and Romsdal, the travel industry and the possibilities of what's going to be produced and delivered in the future, which made me take up this interpellation, and focused on the challenges we have in transporting business, and also in energy prices, which at times can be so high that they harm the industry in Mora and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3629	I would also like to thank you for many good contributions to the debate, which have been numerous – let us say – even though it has been about one state. We have established some very clear common facts: firstly, that More and Romsdal are a fantastic state; secondly, that there are many reasons why it is fantastic – and not all due to the red-green government – and thirdly, that the ash cloud is definitely not due to the red-green government. Even in London, I was ashtrayed. When I heard the interpellant talk about More and Romesdal being isolated, I realized that when there's fog in the channel, it uses to be in British headlines: fog in the channel, continent isolated. I think maybe the interpellant should have the same approach to More and Romesdal, that it is Norway that is cut off from the glory of Mora and Romesdal! A certain conclusion after this debate is at least that there are many factors that affect the development of industry in a country. It's not just the well-filled and actively used toolbox that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has over it, but it's culture, it's education, it's communication veins at sea, it's energy issues and a lot more. So we get to keep going, both in government and in big business, and make not only More and Romesdal, but Norway an even better place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3638	Most of it should have been said about the Moors and the Romsdals. There's only 18 other counties left! The debate on substance is closed. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3646	We would then be ready to vote on the matter on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3653	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3669	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal is entered on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting. The President will begin by voting on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 June 1998 41 on cash support for young children’s parents the second paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: If the parents do not live together and have agreed in writing that the child should remain with both or there is a valid decision that the child should remain with both, cf. Paragraph 36 of the Children’s Act, if the parents agree on such sharing, they may receive cash support with half of each. There is no access to the sharing of partial cash support paid in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 7.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3723	Before we vote on the Committee's recommendation, the President would remind us that, in the course of the debate, the rapporteur has pointed out that the committee's recommendation does not contain proposals for amendments to the Cash Support Act, but that, by way of an incubation, it has penetrated the law's heading. The correct wording of the setting must be: ‘Decisions to the Law amending the Law on Social Security and Child Protection [[right to father's allowance regardless of mother's employment share, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3736	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3746	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3753	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3777	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3810	During the debate, Oskar Jarle Grimstad has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up an action plan with concrete measures to address a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal, and to present it to the Stortinget during the spring 2010 season.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3836	During the debate, Henning Skumsvoll has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the length of rental of power plants from 15 years to 30 years’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3858	In Case No: 5, 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3865	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to draw up a major communication on the framework conditions for SMEs.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3891	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3924	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals that explore future challenges and opportunities for NIS, and with proposals that make NIS more attractive and competitive, including the lifting of traffic area limitations. In this context, the possibility of extending the net pay scheme to NIS vessels is explored.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3939	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Norwegian Ship Registers for competitive framework conditions to be met by the Government in combination with an extended net pay scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3972	During the debate, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own ‘rules’ in accordance with the model of equivalent bodies in Sweden as soon as possible.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e3994	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-11.ana.ud2574e4073	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
