ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e45	The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e48	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Øyvind Halleraker, Nikolai Astrup and myself, it is a pleasure to promote a proposal for a representative to ask the government to submit a report on a comprehensive energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e53	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e67	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e85	The interpellant will have the floor. Bakke-Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e88	Bakke-Jensen, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e93	Bakke-Jensen, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e96	Or the representative of Berg-Jensen, as it was also called once in the Chamber when the Council of State was present. Seafood is by oil the largest export industry in Norway. In total, the export value reaches 44 billion. kr, and we export over 95 pst. of the total quantity. The large markets have traditionally been Europe and the United States, but also Russia and maritime states in Asia are becoming more important and important. It has been an explicit objective from the current Minister for Coastal and Fisheries that we should become the world's leading maritime nation. Everyone in the meadows of this house who is interested in the subject fully agrees with the objective. We also probably agree that governance will be a key word in order to achieve this goal. That we manage our fish stocks according to principles that both give and make ecological sustainability visible is important. It is important because it gives us an advantage in markets with environmentally aware customers, it is important because it increases our status as manager and gives us the opportunity to influence common management models with other countries so that they also move in the right direction, and last but not least it is important because sustainable management provides long-term and secure framework conditions for Norwegian operators at sea and land. Norway is identified several times as the world’s best manager of fish stocks. So there's reason to think that in many fields we're fulfilling the ambition to be the world's leading seamate. Our traditional methods of stock regulation are to set a quota for withdrawals and/or to regulate which tools can be used during capture. In order for this to be an effective regulation, some questions need to be answered. It is important to know the size of the population to be regulated. It is important to know what size is required for it to be sustainable. It is important to know how it affects other populations in the ecosystem. It's important to know if it has a travel pattern. It's important to know if it's walking with or following other populations. It is important to know which fisheries affect the population. And the last, but always important, question is how much uncertainty it's connected to the answers to the questions you've asked. As you can see, it's a rather complex picture. To ask good questions and find good answers, we in Norway have the leading marine research communities and a coastal population with thousands of years of inherited knowledge of marine life. So we seem to be well aware of the task of managing a stock – best in the world, we need to know. When this interpellation has coastal cod management as its theme, it is because we feel that there is a great deal of disagreement between the world's industry masters and the world's best marine scientists about coastal cod status. If we go to the Species database, we find the following definition in coastal cod: with coastal cod north of City means a cod that cannot be classified as north-east Arctic cod. Thus, the term coastal cod includes what we call fjord cod, and what is often called hiking coastal cod, bank cod, or scavenger. If we apply this definition, we get a complex population view, and some challenges in calculating population changes. To date, the Norwegian administration has not been willing to distinguish between coastal cod and fjord cod. Everything has been seen as a single stock and then managed. The problem then is that much of the coastal cod walks with Norwegian-Arctic cod, or screams as we know it that, or it simply wanders to find food. It will then be extremely difficult to provide good estimates of this population. For the fjord cod, the situation is different. It is much more localised and therefore consists of a number of local cod strains along the coast. This allows good stock estimates and good numbers of recruitment and withdrawals to be made through intensified research. Of course you can then ask yourself if it is so careful whether the cod stays at home or whether it is going its way. Coastal cod is described by marine scientists as a stock in crisis, with the risk of extinction. It's on a red list of species we have to pay particular attention to. As a result, environmentally aware customers in our traditional markets will not buy the cod – a proper and affordable response in the market and, in fact, a response pattern we rely on to make our administration regime work. In this picture, our task will be to know as much as possible about and have the best possible numbers on the different populations. A coastal cod development plan has now been put in place to enable the market to recognise it as a sustainable resource, and customers to enjoy it with the best conscience. This is good, but the plan does not distinguish between coastal cod and fjord cod. When the Fiskarlag asks the researchers whether it will be possible to obtain a biomass figure for fjord cod and another for coastal cod, the answer is that there is a great difference between them and that the uncertainty surrounding the coastal cod is significant. What is known, however, is that there are significant amounts of coastal cod walking with the screams. It must be possible to distinguish clearly between the populations of fjord cod and coastal cod in order to provide safer estimates. If we go back to the questions I asked in the introduction, it won't be possible to give good answers to any of these without a clearer definition of which population you're talking about. So it will take a long time, if at all it will be possible for researchers, to benefit from the Norwegian stocks of coastal cod and meet the requirements of the construction plan. The existing reconstruction plan requires stocks to be in excess of 60 000 tonnes over at least two years before improvement can be achieved. If this requirement is not met, stricter rules must be laid down. The question becomes whether you can reach the requirement if you don't know enough, or are not clear enough in the definitions. No, it may actually seem difficult. The danger is, then, that we are making regulations that impose proportionate restrictions on coastal fisheries and the industry that depend on these fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e124	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important but also demanding issue for the marine food industry, namely the issues of coastal cod. The management principle of the new Marine Resource Act, the precautionary principle and biodiversity considerations provide better protection for fjord systems. This also applies to coastal cod. The basis for all Norwegian fisheries is sustainable management and sustainable harvesting. Today, it is quite natural to stress the last: sustainable harvest. Marine life shall be managed in accordance with the precautionary principle and an ecosystem-based approach. These principles are fundamental to the fisheries policy. Therefore, Norwegian fisheries management is based on the best available knowledge and scientific advice from the International Council for Marine Research, ICES, and our own marine research institute. In order to ensure that the harvest is sustainable, we need to keep up with the best evidence available and to assess what action should be taken. These assessments and their decisions require an understanding of both biological, ecological, economic and societal factors. It is also the case that, in almost every case, there will be different considerations and interests that must be weighed against each other. However, long-term sustainability will always be very important, and we cannot allow ourselves to go on chords with the resource base itself. Research and constantly new knowledge are central to the Norwegian administration system, and we spend a lot of resources on research every year. At the same time, it is also the case in the state that we need to prioritise within the framework we have, and there will always be issues that we want to know more about. Cod populations that spawn and live locally are important for coastal ecosystems. They form the basis for a large part of coastal fishing, both for professional and recreational fishermen. The main challenge is to achieve regulation that reduces the taxation of vulnerable populations, but without removing the foundation of traditional coastal fishing. On the basis of advice from marine scientists, a number of measures have been put in place since 2004 to delineate professional fishing and recreational fishing of coastal cod north of Town. Earlier this year, we also launched a package of measures to apply in the south, where the situation is perhaps the most critical. The Council of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea has since 2004 been a zero catch of coastal cod north of City, as long as no reconstruction plan has been established. This was the background for us making such a plan earlier this year. ICES has recently assessed it to be in line with the precautionary principle. If followed, it is expected that the coastal cod stock will be significantly rebuilt. The reconstruction plan will govern the management of the coastal cod. The aim of the plan is to ensure full reproductive potential for the population complex and the protection of vulnerable local populations. In order to achieve the objectives, targeted regulatory measures are needed. We have a relatively short history of coastal cod research. The time series of coastal detonations do not go as far back as for other species, and there are still many unanswered questions. In the wider management of coastal cod, greater detail will probably be needed. Knowledge needs include systematic monitoring of important coastal breeding and spawning areas, but also surveys of migration patterns and a better basis for defining what can actually be considered as local fjord cod. Furthermore, it is also necessary — as the inter-pellant was involved — to know which parts of the coastal cod mixes with the strong population of Norwegian-Arctic cod. The fishing industry has applied for eco-labelling of cod through the Marine Stewardship Council, MSC. The uncertainty associated with the coastal cod has led to the fact that the MSC has only authorised cod fishing in the area outside 12 nautical miles from the coast. The application for eco-labelling is the industry itself, and they were aware of the risk of coastal cod becoming a problem. The fisheries sector in other countries, inter alia: in Iceland, have chosen solutions other than MSC and, as far as I have been registered, have not experienced any specific market problems for that reason. For me, however, it is a point that any Norwegian fishing should be able to make an eco-label as long as the criteria are based on recognised international principles for responsible harvesting. However, the eco-labelling process itself needs to be evaluated and managed by the industry itself. However, the fact that we have now put in place a reconstructive plan for coastal cod should be an element which will allow cod to be caught within 12 thousand miles of time to be eco-labelled. What we see is that the interest in eco-labelling has increased in recent years, mainly among the purchases in the largest department stores, but also increasingly among consumers. Environmental labelling is a small part of the market and the placing on the market of seafood, but it is in any case important that consumers can trust that Norwegian seafood comes from sustainably managed populations. Norway exported cod fish including rockfish, saltfish and dry fish for SEK 1.02 billion. kr in September. It represents an increase of 10 pst., or 95.8 million. kr, compared to the corresponding month in 2009. To date, cod has been exported for 7.9 billion. kr, and that's the second largest value ever. The total export of pelagic fish was 4.6 billion. kr in the first nine months of 2010, which corresponds to an increase of 13 pst. from the previous year. In order to maintain and, where possible, increase such export figures, it is important to be able to refer to sustainably managed populations. And a prerequisite for that is that the stocks are actually managed sustainably. To return to the coastal cod, we probably did not find the final form of the regulations, despite the fact that we recently put in place the previously mentioned reconstruction plan. A central question is what coastal cod really is. There are, as is known, a number of components and local populations along the coast. The interpellant was within it. Some of the concepts used are fjord cod, coastal cod, bank cod or scabbard cod. Genetic differences have been identified not only between coastal cod and Norwegian Arctic cod but also between the different coastal cod populations. One important question is how much emphasis we should put on these differences, and what importance they should have for the practical management. Another question is whether it is possible to establish a system where the fjords are separated from the more open seas, and that all cod outside the fjords can be regulated as a stock, and then naturally they can be regulated in another way. At least that will mean significant simplification. The interpellant poses two concrete questions in the interpellation: what I will do to establish a reliable status of the coastal cod situation, and what extraordinary measures I will take to resolve the problematic market situation for coastal fleets and industry. On the first point, I would like to point out that there has been a significant research effort in coastal cod in recent years, and there is little evidence that today’s status description – based on take-off information and catch data – is not reliable. However, current methodology is uncertain about the dynamics of coastal cod being made up of many different components, and the current division between coastal cod and Norwegian arctic cod is also the right one in the long term. There are issues that the Institute of Marine Research is already in the process of assessing, but it is too early to draw clear conclusions. On the second question, I have not registered any major market problems related to cod caught within 12 nautical miles, so far could not have been labelled with a private eco-label. And I hope that problem disappears right now that we've put in place a reconstruction plan. There were major market problems for all cod in the winter of 2009, but the impression so far this year is that exports are going well and, fortunately, prices are improving.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e184	I thank the Minister for the answer. Although we do not now experience a difficult market situation, there has been a problematic market situation for cod, and it is an explicit objective for Norwegian fishing industry and fisheries policy to become the world's leading maritime nation. In that I also add that we will be so good that we will be able to get out of the market as much as possible. Obviously, the more we can do with products that get an environmentally conscious market, the higher the price we can get for the products. Therefore, work on eco-labelling and on making sustainable management visible is so important. I record that we have put in place a reconstruction plan, but it can quickly become a boomerang if it suddenly turns out that we have local populations that we have not managed. And on some fjord populations we actually have a little bit of poor control today, not because the professional fishing takes out too much fish, but we have other actors who come in today and tax these stocks. In the tourism industry, we have a growing segment called tourist fishing, and we have increased recreational fishing. Therefore, it is important to note that the recovery plan now under way, with the definition we use in coastal cod, can quickly return to the industry. That's why the proposal to look at the fjord system and then clearly distinguish what's happening on the outside, maybe a very good proposal. I think that must be right when we know that we have large populations of coastal cod that are fishing both inside and outside of 12 miles. When we know that these are populations that are walking, we can also initially conclude that there are populations that are not at risk now. So if we don't make the stock assessment, it can react to the production and the products we have from the market. The result may be that we lose market shares and get less paid for the products we are going to sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e197	The market situation I was thoroughly involved in my article. So far we haven't been able to see that this has influenced the market. But what the interpellant points to is an important point, because there is no doubt that consumers have become more and more environmentally aware. Therefore, action by the authorities is important. But equally important is probably the industry's behaviour at sea. It must be allowed to remember in these days. So I fully agree that extracting the most from the market related to products is very important. Of course, then environmental sustainability is an important element. I think that with product development I also strongly appeal to consumers. That is why I have started a big project in the industry, called ‘Cooperation for work in the marine food industry’, where we are just focusing on turning to the market. Then the interpellant is in on an important point, namely, recreational fishing. In some local areas, there is no doubt that it also has a significant impact on native fjord cod populations. For this reason, action has also been taken against that part of the industry. It is important that all those living on the coast, both industry and residents, feel that the measures will be fair, that everyone must be involved in taking their own decisions. There is no alternative to implementing measures. Thinking that this is going over is the least good way to choose. So what has been done with regard to recreational fishermen, and taxing the coastal cod locally, is among other things. that we have reduced the amount of nets allowed for recreational fishing of cod from 210 to 165 metres from 2011. So the amount of yarn you're allowed to use is reduced. Then we have also reduced the fishing opportunities for cod for marketing. It shall be limited to NOK 1000 per exercise and per vessel from 2011. So it's a half of what you're allowed to do today. Today you can pick up 2,000 kg and sell and get paid for it. We know that there are also restrictions on what tourists are allowed to bring out of the country. We can be honest that it might be harder to control than the behavior they have at sea. The cooperation that the fishing industry has had with the tourism industry in order to gain knowledge and good attitudes that this is an important resource, including for the tourism industry, I think is important, which, hopefully, can contribute positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e210	It's still very good, I think, that fisheries policy issues are once again on the Scissors' Map in this Chamber. That's very good. In my view, there are several important areas of this interpellation – it's kind of a cheek egg interpellation. In my view, there are three important areas. One is coastal cod and protection restrictions, the other is the market situation for coastal fleets, and the third is the market situation for industry. All these areas deserve attention. Having said that, I note that there are also a lot of different views about coastal cod regulation. I notice that the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team believes that since the gypsum stock of cod is listed from 50,000 tonnes to 75 000 tonnes, the coastal cod can be freshly reported and removed from the so-called red list. At the same time, the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team believes that the fjord cod is in poor condition and must have a protection, while the Marine Research Institute sees no developments indicating that coastal cod protection measures should be limited, but hopes that the decline is now slowed down. And e.g. Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag is critical of the strict regulations for this fishing and considers that it has had no positive impact on the population. This shows that there are many opinions about which administration we should have and what results this has given. So it's like there's someone who seems to be getting harder hit than others. The interpellant mentions the Henningswärbox. Since I'm from Lofoten, I know well where the Event Warrior is, and what challenges the protection of this area seems to have given. The protection of this area is demanding for the fishing industry in East Lofoten. Producers are struggling with raw material and many fishing businesses are struggling as a result. In addition, the insight of crawling into the Westfjord has failed in recent years, with the consequences it has also received. I know there's dialogue between the relevant municipalities and the department, and I hope that there can be a good solution there. The working party believes that it is important to keep up and strengthen the cod stocks that spawn locally. Coastal cod is important for the coastal ecosystem and is at the same time the basis for much coastal fishing. What is difficult is to get a regulation that reduces the extraction of cod, while at the same time maintaining traditional fishing and activity along our coast. In the long term it will be best for everyone to have strong local cod populations. There is a difficult balance between the concerns of business operators and local communities on the one hand and the need to rebuild coastal cod stocks on the other. In the last ten years, we have had good management of fish stocks according to the precautionary principle and based on knowledge. This has led to the fact that most populations are bigger today than they have been in a very long time. For the Workers' Party, the precautionary principle will always underpin the good and sustainable management of our fishing resources. So far, it has produced good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e229	Coastal cod is a smaller part of the fishing resources, but it is important for the fishermen who have fished in our fjords not to stop fishing. My soul comes from a fjord at the heart of Borgundfjord on Sunnmøre, where my grandfather fished at Borgundfjorden next to being a farmer. Getting together with grandpa in Borgundfjord to put and pull yarns is a nice childhood memory, for all of us saw until the annual Borgundfjord fishing was to start. Today, the Borgundfjord is near peace. It is totally unreasonable that fishing here is totally forbidden, said the head of the County Fishery Team, Lars Erik Hopmark, at the annual meeting of More and Romsdal Fiskerlag in Ålesund on Thursday, two weeks ago. It's no shame to turn around. I want my profession back," said Terje Blomvik, a childhood friend who has had Borgundfjord fishing who has lived his entire adult life. Head of Norway's Fiskarlag, Reidar Nilsen, said the following: We have been peaceing the coastal cod for a long time without seeing results. Now it's time to do something about the nibbles -- the predators that eat up the juvenile. Before one does anything to the nibblers, the gypsum doesn't make the kids grow to. The debate thus took a new turn; it focused on the lack of research in the field of predators, which was cutting and selling. So you might ask yourself, what is sustainable fishing? A little simplified means that today’s fisheries should not adversely affect the next generation’s ability to fish. But to achieve that, one must assume a well-functioning ecosystem at all levels. In a situation where knowledge of a resource is lacking, sustainable management implies a pre-war approach to anthropogenic impacts on resources. It's tempting to think that the less knowledge, the more conservative management. The annual meeting in More and Romesdal Fiskerlag could show that they have repeatedly expressed themselves critical of the research effort on the coastal cod. While they were within the pattern of cod migration as a challenge, they argued that harvesting seaweed leads to the fish spawn not finding hiding places and thus making it easier to switch for, among other things. Scurvy. The participants wanted to know why this was not taken into account in the reconstruction plan. It was therefore very positive that the speakers of the Fiskarlag, who addressed these challenges, were supported by research teams. I agree that we don't know enough about how the predators, who cut and sell, affect the coastal cod population. We'd like to discuss these things, said marine scientist Asgeir Aglen of the Marine Research Institute. It is a paradox that he just before – from the same pulpit – said: If the reconstruction plan does not lead to improvement, we must come back with increasingly tough regulations. Recently we were able to read in the FiskerybladetFiskeren that after 18 years of total satisfaction with the cod in Canada, it has never returned, and that Canadian researchers who have researched the problem with the sale believe that there is grazing pressure and crying that may be the cause. Why was this issue not taken into account in the treatment of the last notification of sea mammals? Will the Council of State take these important signals and ensure that the process of Canadian researchers will be followed up by the scientific community in Norway as well? I recorded that the Council of State said there was considerable research on the coastal cod, and that there are still many unanswered questions in the field of research. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will take into account the challenges of the annual meeting of fishermen in Ålesund, and also look at what is happening in Canada.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e259	It is an important issue that has been raised and, as many have said before, it is important that we discuss fisheries policy in this Chamber as well. Like the previous speaker, I have also grown up in a small fjord, and have many good and nail-bitting memories of cod fishing in my youth and also later in life. SV is busy with two things: we're busy taking care of the coastal fishing fleet, and we're busy taking care of the coastal cod. As a starting point, this may appear to be a contradiction, since the delimitation of coastal cod fishing may in the short term lead to major challenges for the coastal fishing fleet. And there is – as many have said here – quite a lot of point of view about what is the right balance between fishing and protection, what is the correct design of the restrictions so that they become fair, but also the best possible yield and the best possible strategy to build up a viable strain of the coastal cod. The only solution to this is essentially that we get a knowledge-based management. As others have called for here, knowledge may not be good enough in some areas – when it relates to patterns of migration, when it relates to mixing with other strains, when it relates to who grazes on the cod. So, in the long term, the solution will be an even heavier commitment to knowledge about the coastal cod, in line with the entire management regime, to ensure sustainable fishing resources – not least resource-efficient fishing resources that also reach heights in order to find protection methods for coastal fishing fleets. So this is a matter on which in today's debate there has been no solution, but there has been a clear view that we have too little knowledge, and it must be a challenge for us to continue working to strengthen the level of knowledge in this area. Then there are also two things that are important here. The only thing is that we have to build up the tribe, for the tribe and for the fishing its own part. But in our market-oriented society, it is also important – as many people have been in it – that we ensure that we build and see the structure in a way that gives us confidence in the market. It is perhaps the third part – protection, coastal fishing and marshals in the market – that we have to work on, and that the knowledge base needs to be built up to provide us with the best possible basis for decision. So one has been a little bit concerned with other things, besides the three things that this is about, that affect the development of the coastal cod. It has been called recreational fishing, which is clearly an element that we also need to look at – both to map scale and to discuss restrictions. But there's one point that hasn't been mentioned here today, and we in SV are very busy, and that's that we're facing a situation where oil extraction in coastal areas can be what really destroys the possibilities to last this fish stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e273	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing the issue of coastal cod, which is an important issue for the fishing industry. Like others who have spoken in this Chamber, I am also pleased that fisheries policy is still on the agenda here, that is important industrial policy and that is important policies for building the country. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good answer. Let me start by saying that we in the Centre Party are concerned that we should have a reliable status of the coastal cod situation. This is a fundamental prerequisite for good governance. The Council of State has made a comprehensive presentation of the monitoring work carried out, the adjustments made and the establishment of a reconstruction plan. So I'm not going into these areas. What I want to draw attention to is that in the wider management of coastal cod there will be a need for even more detailed knowledge and more research. In this context, good dialogue with fishermen is important. Opinions have been given from fishermen that fishermen are positive in contributing to such surveys and thus contribute to more detailed knowledge. Knowledge needs include systematic monitoring of important coastal breeding and spawning areas, but also surveys of migration patterns provide a better basis for defining what can actually be considered as local fjord cod. Furthermore, there is a need to know which parts of the coastal cod interfere with the strong population of Norwegian Arctic cod. In this context, it is important that researchers also examine whether the coastal cod has moved further into the sea, as has been pointed out by fishing teams. This is important to examine further in order to have the best possible factual and professional basis to assess. Regarding the second point of the interpellation, about the problematic market situation for coastal fleets and industry, I have not recorded any market problems at this time. But the winter of 2009, as we all know, was a very difficult year. My impression now is that the export is going well. Like the Council of State, I hope this will continue beyond winter and that prices will improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e292	Interpellant tackles a major challenge for coastal fishermen: to identify the situation of the coastal cod, so that we get a reliable status. It is essential for good governance and long-term value creation. There are several challenges related to the whitefish. In the winter of 2009, the marketing of just that kind of fish was very demanding. The fishing industry faced credit challenges as a result of poorer demand for white fish, and stocks became high. However, the parties agreed to reduce the minimum price for cod. A long coast with large seas and many fjords gives Norway good conditions for fishing. We need to make use of that in a sustainable way. Fishing resources must be managed in a long-term perspective, and the consideration of viable stocks – a precautionary principle – must be given to short-term nutritional considerations, so that fish resources can continue to provide a basis for employment both at sea and on land in the future. At the same time, I see the great challenges this presents for fishermen, and as Røbekk Nørve I will use the example of Borgundfjord. Fishing in Borgundfjorden is a traditional fishing that has been going on for hundreds of years. Then large parts of the fjord were closed for net fishing, and more than 30 fishermen and professional fishermen who depend on this income are very dubious. The Borgundfjord is one of the best spawning areas for the coastal cod, and it is therefore important that it be opened as soon as the stock is sustainable and we have a reliable status for the coastal cod. The dialogue between authorities and fishermen and the fishing teams is important in order to have confidence in both figures and measures being implemented. I experienced that in the same way as the representative Røbekk Nørve at that meeting in Møre and Romsdal Fiskerlag. The Deltakers Act and the Raw Fish Act are important pillars of fisheries policy. When we dealt with the raw fish law in spring, there was a broad consensus on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act. The sales laws themselves, in cooperation with economic operators, have to adapt to the most appropriate forms of sales to ensure value creation and control of the resource take-off. A prerequisite for this is, of course, the interpellant, namely the need for a reliable status of the coastal cod situation. In addition, the whitefish sector is raw materialised and characterized by seasonal fishing, which provides poor profitability for the fishing industry. We have large quantities of fish and a proximity to the market that should make it as easy to get even deliveries of cod to the market as for salmon. But we are losing against Iceland and the Faeroe Islands in the competition for high-quality products and competing with China and Vietnam in the low-priced market. I hope the Council of State and the government will take action to help the whitefish sector develop in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e307	First, I would like to thank Mr Bakke-Jensen for addressing the situation of the coastal cod, an important issue both for the environment, for the districts and for the industry. The coastal cod, or Gadus morhua, as the species is actually called, is found in several populations along the coast from City to the Russian border. The Norwegian coastal cod population declined continuously from 1994 to 2003 and has since remained at the same low level. The spawning population in 2009 was one of the lowest, and due to high fish mortality, it is unlikely to increase in the next few years. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, classifies the population to have reduced reproductive capacity and states that it is not harvested sustainably. Coastal cod reference points have not been established because catch statistics are uncertain. Historical data on total catches are difficult to estimate, and the number of unregistered catches of recreational and tourist fishermen is uncertain. As a result, stock calculations, and therefore the ratio of brood stock to recruitment, are also incorrect. However, ICES considers that the estimated stock reflects the real development. Due to poor recruitment, the population is expected to decline further in the next few years. Since 2004, ICES has recommended that it not be caught coastal cod and that recommendation also applies to 2010. Coastal cod is on the red list according to the criteria of the International Nature Conservation Organisation, used by the Species Database in the classification of threats within Norwegian fauna and flora. If the aim is to build the spawning stock up to 70-80 pst. of what it was in the mid-1990s, the population had to be increased by at least 50 pst. in relation to the level of the day just to get out of the red list. We cannot therefore settle down and be satisfied with today's stock situation. The ambitions should be greater than getting out of the red list. One problem is that Norwegian coastal cod and North-East Arctic cod are caught mixed in the same fisheries, and in the regulation the quotas for the two stocks are merged. This means that the quota set for coastal cod is to a small extent governing the quantity of coastal cod caught. In order to limit coastal cod fishing, new regulations were introduced in 2005, which have continued until now. However, these regulations are unlikely to be sufficient to stop the decline in coastal cod stocks. The left will also point to the importance of continued good regulation in Borgundfjord and in surrounding areas. A significant part of the catch of coastal cod north of Town in the spawning season is taken in the Helgeland-Møre area. Within a line between Slinningsodden and Langevåg, including Stadtgrunden/Aspevågen, means e.g. The marine research institute should be allowed to fish only by handcutter in the months of March to April of the next five years. Regular biological sampling should be carried out at the same time. In order to ensure that spawning fish enter their spawning areas, greater restrictions should also be imposed on the area just outside, i.e. The Hessafjord. Seismic shooting outside the Lofoten and the West Pole shows that there are regional/local differences when the coastal cod is finished spawning. This has also been demonstrated in other studies and supported by observations from fishermen. Sampling in this area showed that gypsum was still in progress after 15 May – approx. 5 pst. of the cod continued to drive and spawn. The left will point out in this context that we are opposed to seismic shooting in this area. The left considers that the Henningswärbox should be maintained with limits as it has been and has worked in recent years. Protection of such an important spawning ground for coastal cod will result in better recruitment, and it cannot be excluded that this regulation has contributed to an flare and some improvement of recorded deposits of 2 to 4 year olds from Westfjord and northwards. Finally, the left will refer to the need for the correctly specified catch position. This is essential in order for ICES to have a proper picture of the relationship between coastal cod and North-East Arctic cod and for stock calculations to be in line with reality. The Left will support new measures that the Government may propose to ensure that coastal cod stocks can be rebuilt. The main challenge remains to regulate coastal cod, while maintaining traditional coastal fishing and economic activity. Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister on two specific issues: The left considers that a plan should be drawn up for national cod fjords, in line with national salmon fjords. Does the Minister agree? And: Will the government follow the recommendations of the Sugar Project to look at the relationship between coastal fish and sugar tar?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e337	I would first like to thank the representative, Bakke-Jensen, for an important interplay. Norway is a far-reaching country with a decentralised economic structure. This is a good example of our fishing industry. Fishing and processing and their positive ring-effects mean that we have a living business and housing along our long coast, but also inland. I guess we could also say that our fishing resources are our common property that needs to be adequately cared for. The propulsion batch wishes to ensure optimum exploitation of fish stocks. This may include, inter alia: be made through transferable allowances and facilitating close interaction between enterprises, industries, research environments and other actors. The transition to transferable quotas requires a review of the participant law and the raw fish law so that the industry is not closed for investment. Permits to exploit parts of marine resources shall be granted by the State. Those authorisations shall be capable of being traded between economic operators and shall be open-ended. It is also important to ensure arrangements for the re-employment of the fishing industry. Sustainable taxation of resources requires international cooperation and agreements. Norway must therefore contribute to ensuring agreements and effective control against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and the placing on the market of illegal catches must be investigated as serious financial crime. Strict responses must be made to infringements and other forms of fraud involving allowances. For this reason, it is necessary, inter alia, to: The coastguard and the control of fisheries shall be provided with sufficient resources to increase efforts against illegal fishing. Certain regulation of fisheries is necessary and there is a need to revise current regulatory models, with a view to better fixing total quotas, exploitation and predictability as far as possible. This will provide stability and provide a basis for better industry planning. Such stability will encourage long-term investment by industry, fishermen and fishermen. The Progress Party sees the benefits of having a varied fishing fleet and considers diversity, proximity, flexibility, financial resources and stable framework conditions as positive for industry and will facilitate this. In the case of the coastal cod in particular, the Progress Party will come back to this. In any case, fishing has always been an important industry, and the Progress Party will continue to test to the best of its ability to enable this industry to have the best possible framework conditions, while at the same time having a reasonable harvest of this rich, large and diverse resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e354	There are obviously some representatives in this room who have not understood that the situation of the coastal cod is quite precarious. In particular, this relates to the coast of Skagerrak and Oslofjorden. In some fjords the cod has simply disappeared. The professional fishermen have chosen to abandon fishing for cod and the recreational fishermen report black seas. There is little doubt about the causes of the deplorable stock situation, namely significant overfishing over time and the increase in the stock of sprats and seals. A very effective light fishing for herring right inside the rocks has also affected the balance of the ecosystem in our fjord arms. I am aware, of course, that fishing on our sides of the country does not have the same economic importance as fishing in the West and North, but also with us fishermen live by the sea. Nearly 2 million people use the Oslo soil and the Skagerrak coast as a recreational area, and it has its own value. Not only would it be unwise, but something close to an ecological disaster if we continue to fish down the cod stock, so that eventually it will be impossible to hang out a handcutter with reasonable hope of getting fish. The scientists were early out and called an alarm, but it took time for the authorities to respond. That is why I should like to commend the Minister for Fisheries for seeing what is happening in our coastal area as the first in that Ministerial post, who has taken hold and has dared to introduce protective measures. Neither was it when we introduced restrictions on lobster fishing a few seasons ago. But what has happened? Both recreational and professional fishermen can already report larger catches than in many years. The restrictions are already working. Offensive fishing is obviously reduced, probably as a result of self-justice among fishermen, control and increased information on fishing rules. All Norwegian fisheries management must be based on the best available knowledge of stock sustainability and ecosystems. Sustainable management is also an eco-based management of fish resources. That is why it is so important that governance is based on up-to-date knowledge of the ecosystem. We don't have that much. I'll give you an example. One of the measures put in place by the government is the prohibition of light fishing for sprat and herring. Rightly, exemptions from the prohibition may be granted if the vessels have an observer on board and the fishing is the subject of a knowledge acquisition. I agree with the ban, and I agree that we need more knowledge about the consequences of light fishing. My point is that in the cold water of the ban there appeared a marine scientist who claimed that light fishing for herring and sprat has no significance whatsoever for the development of the cod population. What is not said, however, is that the research data of the Marine Research Institute, that is, the basis for the assessments of light fishing, originate from the late 1960s and 1970s, when the composition of emergency catches in Hardanger, Sogn and Fjordane, Oslofjorden and Skagerrakskysten was investigated. I would, with respect to reporting, believe that the stock situation at the time was completely different from now, and that the knowledge acquisition of the time is not particularly relevant to today's situation. This means that we need more and more up-to-date research, not just on the stock situation and the total withdrawal of individual fish species, but on the ecosystem as a whole. I trust that the measures introduced from the turn of the year, with minimum targets, gear limits and fishing restrictions, will contribute positively to the restoration of coastal cod populations. Further measures have been announced in 2012 and the Directorate-General for Fisheries has been asked to assess possible measures in the fisheries with crepe trawls, the use of gills in shrimp fisheries and the establishment of their own protection areas. There will be a conflict between each of the measures launched because it obviously affects the work and income of fishermen, but the option is far worse. Finally, it is regrettable that restrictions on fishing must be followed by control measures. Humanity is, as we know, relatively fragile.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e375	I would like to thank you for the very good contributions and make a brief summary of some of the recordings that have been made. As far as tourist fishing is concerned, we have a regulation, but in my opinion, not a regulation that is good enough. First of all, it doesn't work, because you don't have a control system and you don't have a device in place to check it. It is enough that man is fragile both within and outside the limit, to quote Gullvåg. It's also true that there's no difference if there's a tourist coming here for 14 days, or if there's a tourist coming here for four hours: you can bring the same amount out. It's a problem for the industry and it doesn't promote those businessmen in travel who are really nice and have people here for a long time. So you should look at this a little bit. The market problem has been mentioned in part here. I also remember that there was a market crisis for white fish, but that's not the problem I'm talking about when I'm talking about environmental certification of products. For those who remember it and are unable to see any problems in the future market: Well, good market work is very much about trying to read a market in the future. That's what was my point. The precautionary principle in regulation is important, but we must never go so far as to say no to knowledge for the sake of the precautionary principle. That's a little bit of what we experience with the coastal cod. We actually have more knowledge of this being more population, but we're not using it in the reconstruction plan. That's my point. Then I was glad that the minister mentioned the industry's behaviour at sea in the last few days. I registered an interview where the minister said that she was shaken and did not believe that such was going on in the Norwegian fishing industry. That is probably true, because the Council of State has probably listened to her as Minister of Fisheries before her. At that time one could sometimes get the impression that the Workers' Party had invented the Barents' Sea. And that's not true -- the Barents Sea is enough even older than what Haakon Lie was. I have produced a 2004 report entitled ‘Commission for Action against Fish Drafts’, from a Commission set up under an excellent fisheries minister named Svein Ludvigsen. There the problem industry had been tackled when it came to drafts and stuff like that. And since I've noticed that this councillor's ability to harness knowledge, I've included the report and I'm going to deliver it to her, so she can take it to work further. All governance is based on knowledge, but there is also an important point that management must be anchored in the industry to be managed. If the administration loses confidence in the industry, we won't get good results. Coastal cod management can in many ways be an example that we have not been good enough to anchor this. Here's the knowledge that we're not willing to use. Then it doesn't always become such a good model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e394	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would also like to thank you for a report that I have already received. To that I have to say that we can take a separate debate on what has been done since this report was submitted. We have strengthened resource control, we have introduced an electronic fishing diary, we have introduced selective fishing gear – at all we have done a lot. What the former fisheries minister did just before he left the offices, however, was cut off the appropriations for the Fisheries Directorate and the resource control, so what I would say is not to follow up his own report. So to today's text: the coastal cod. The Borgundfjord has been mentioned by several. It's closed for fishing, with the exception of handcuffs in the spawning season in the spring. The marine scientists believe that this is important to ensure spawning and recruitment. Fish must therefore go a little further to fish. I understand that this can be a challenge. Then I would like to comment on what the representative Røbekk Nørve was in with regard to the sales. It has been claimed in several articles this week in the Fishery Magazine that havert, or graying, is responsible for the cod crisis in Canada, i.e. the grazing of the yard has led to the collapse of the cod population in eastern Canada. That information was claimed to come from a seminar on the impact of the garden on fish stocks, which was held at the beginning of October in Halifax, Canada. The marine research institute was represented at this meeting and they cannot join in such a conclusion. The final report is not written, but the workshop concludes that overfishing was the cause of the decline in the population in all areas. Then the representative Raja picked up sugar bars and the project that has been there. The ecosystem in which coastal cod grows and lives is important. This area is one of the areas we need to look at. Several projects have been launched to look at the importance of the tares forest, and of course we need to take the knowledge from this. Then, as far as the proposal on national cod fjords is concerned, I would just like to point out what I was in the post that we need to pay particular attention to the fjord cod. Both fishermen and researchers seem to agree that the population of stationary fjord cod is even worse than the population of coastal cod. At the same time, there is no doubt that the future management regime for the coastal cod population will require new knowledge and thorough assessments of what is going on and what is going to be the administrative units. The Institute of Marine Research is in the process of working, and an important point here is what several representatives have been involved in, taking with them the experience and knowledge of fishermen. The debate on the coastal cod has been fresh for several years, and it illustrates that there are no simple solutions or answers. To the representative of Bredvold, I just want to say that it is this government that has actually stopped illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. We did not invent the Barents Sea, but we had to stop the illegal fishing that was up to 100,000 tonnes. Last year no illegal withdrawal of cod was reported in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e407	Then there's case no. 2 completed. At the request of the Church Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that case No. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e434	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. The President will also propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e441	Competitive teachers are the most important factor in the learning of students. There is broad political agreement on the importance of high professional and pedagogical competences. It also provides a good basis for finding good solutions with wide lashing. Although the majority do not agree with all the proposals put forward by the rapporteurs behind the current proposals for representatives, we appreciate that they are raising a debate on which instruments will be the best. Such debates are useful to make the system work as well as possible. I am the case rapporteur for Document 8:150, and I feel that the Committee as a whole is concerned that the obstacles that teachers can face when they want continuing training should be removed, so that as much as possible they can make use of the offer. However, there is some disagreement about what the obstacles are and how they can best be removed. At the outset, it may be appropriate to stress that the strategy for continuing training must be seen in the context of the work done in general to strengthen the role of teachers. The GNIST campaign contributes to better recruitment for teacher training. From this fall, teacher training has been shifted to more specialisation towards subjects and steps. In 2008, the skills requirements at secondary school were strengthened, and in October this year a further increase in the competence requirement has also been issued. Guidance for newly-trained teachers has also started. The aim is for all new teachers to receive practical guidance. The permanent system of formal continuing vocational training is part of this picture. We must not forget the importance of the roles of school leaders and school owners, so that teachers can get the elbow space they need to play their role as fully as possible. The number of persons enrolled for further training with State sub-funding has increased, but we want more. There are still too many people who do not take advantage of the offers despite the fact that there are teachers who want to participate. Some teachers report that they do not experience the system as sufficiently flexible. Some schools are striving to find qualified temporary workers while their teachers are being refilled. There are feedback we take seriously, and we want to work to make the system more familiar and get the anchoring needed to allow even more people to make use of the offer. It is a central part of the employer’s responsibility to ensure that all teachers and school managers receive the professional offer they need, and it is part of the employer’s responsibility to facilitate this. It assumes that you are stockpiling and anchoring local escalation plans where local conditions are taken into account. This means that individual EVU accounts should be established, as proposed by the Right, but that there is a school owner who needs to assess the benefits and the need for this. The responsibility of the Ministry and the parties is to support this work, such as: make through the Quality Competence strategy. The state also contributes financially. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left also ask that the government increase the government's share of funding for further training for teachers. As we see it, it is a strength that the provision of continuing education is anchored as a partnership in commitment cooperation with school leaders, teachers' organisations, KS and the National Council for Teacher Education. It also makes it possible to anchor the offers with the parties involved. It contributes to the mutual commitment of responsibility for the success of establishing and providing good provision of continuing education and training. Then, of course, we need to continuously assess the form and content of the offers and how the funding is to be made and distributed in order to be sure that it works optimally. And we want to keep doing that. Furthermore, the Left proposes that the decision on hour extensions and fruit-and-green arrangements be reconsidered. The Christian People's Party joins in this. The majority do not consider it appropriate to set these measures against each other. It is not particularly sensible to compare apples and pears, as is well known, or in this case fruit-and-green scheme with continuing training for teachers. We believe it is right both to give priority to awakening students and to ensuring that teachers are professionally up-to-date. Finally, I would like to explain the position of the majority of the government in relation to the proposals for representatives. Document 8:150, from the right, is annexed to the Protocol and Document 8:145, from the left, is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e462	Now the rapporteur, Mr Tajik, has raised the issue. 4 and passed through it. In addition, she also commented on case No. 3, for which I am the case rapporteur. Since the issues in both cases relate to continuing training for teachers, the same argument remains. What distinguishes most in the cases is that the Left's proposal focuses on the fact that the State should assume greater financial responsibility for the financing of continuing education for primary school teachers during a transitional period. The right-hand proposal concerns the continuing training of teachers in Norwegian primary and secondary education. In addition, the proposal from the Right includes: proposals for more flexible solutions for continuing training. Both proposals address the need for mandatory escalation plans to ensure that more teachers receive further training. As rapporteur for case No. 3 I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the members of the Committee. The Committee has expressed concern on many issues and on a number of occasions that some students do not develop sufficient basic skills in schools, with the potential consequences for further education, private life and the working life of each student. Therefore, it is not unexpected that all parties agree on the importance of having the best up-to-date teachers in the school sector. Nor is it unexpected that the political parties have different solutions to reach the goal. Everyone agrees and stresses the importance of having good decentralised and online offers. This type of education offers good opportunities for flexibility in continuing training. In addition, such education will reduce the need for travel, with subsequent savings in travel and accommodation costs. With this in mind, the Progress Party hopes that this form of teaching will soon be offered, so that more people will be able to participate. Government parties are celebrating a large part of their argument on the matter to the importance of the conversion of teacher training — otherwise, the whole Storting agreed. But it doesn't help the students and teachers who are in today's school system. It does not seem to them that government parties have little choice of solutions that give priority to continuing education for as many of today’s teachers as possible, who may have to teach at school for as many as 20 and 30 years. It is also important to note that seven out of ten teachers themselves express the need for further training, cf. a survey conducted by the Education Association in 2009. School policy we adopt today will affect future knowledge developments. If Norway is to be able to compete in the ever-increasing international competition in the future, the focus on knowledge and competence must be first priority for both pupils and teachers. Already today, over 70 pst. of the total value creation of human capital in Norway, and this proportion will increase. If we are to be able to maintain and further develop today's prosperity and well-being, it is essential that we do things smarter and better – both in relation to how we do it today and in relation to other countries. It may take more than five to six years for teachers who have been trained by a new standard to teach at school. Another side of this case is that we also know that it is not the easiest thing in the world to get into a new job and believe that one can turn the new colleagues around after working in the same job for many years, if they have not received the same update in the subject. This also applies in school. The prerequisite for the success of new teachers is that both new and old teachers who teach at the same school should teach according to almost the same criteria. If this is not the case, the conversion of teacher training may be that it does not give the expected pay-out in terms of pupils' learning outcomes and that everything remains at the same age in school. All batches agree that the training offer should be extended. The majority of governments argue that the increase needs to be adapted to needs, demand from school owners and the development of quality assurance studies. They therefore consider it important not only that funds be allocated but also that sound and good instruments be found to increase participation. These are good arguments to which the Progress Party normally subscribes. But it's kind of creepy when the government parties use this argument right here. Why has the ministry bought far more places than the school owners have seen fit to accept, if the quality of the offer is not good enough? The reasons why municipalities do not accept the offer are not a lack of school needs or poor quality of studies offered, but simply a lack of economy. Evaluation, including: from the municipality of Stavanger, shows that the study offer is of very good quality, but that it is limited because of the high cost. In view of the fact that the time is running out for me, I have submitted an excessive contribution, I just have to go right over to say that I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party is part of in both cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e490	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e493	Thanks to the rapporteurs for reviewing the content of the proposals. The right will have a knowledge-based education policy, and at one point the research is unambiguous: if we want to raise the pupils’ learning outcomes, the school needs to be secured by well-qualified teachers. It's only partly the case in school today. In fact, the proportion of non-accredited teachers for the stage they teach has increased steadily in recent years. This means that thousands of Norwegian students meet teachers without expected qualifications. At the same time, we know that seven out of ten teachers themselves state the need for further professional development. This is a powerful signal to the education authorities and must be taken seriously. Government budget proposals in 2011 do not bear a bid to do so. There seems to be full agreement on the meaning of the teacher, and that's good. Then it should be logical to start by ensuring the good competence of the teachers who are in school today. But that's not the priority of the government. The importance of today's students seems to be coming into the background. The Minister of Knowledge seems to be much more concerned with the legalisation of a resource standard that is highly unrealistic. According to the NRK, SV has calculated for itself that this will require 3,000 new teachers and cost 1.6 billion. kr. To Nordlys, Kristin Halvorsen has said that the government has three years to get this done. In a situation of 2000 non-accredited teachers, it would be pointless to legislate a norm that is not qualified teachers to comply with. The right now challenges the government to change focus. If the Minister of Knowledge wants Norway on the PISA ranking, one of the objectives set for accession, she cannot settle down with the large number of teachers in primary school without a qualification, and most of them are in the 1–4 age group. steps. It is particularly worrying when we know how important initial training is. In the right, there is a need to increase the power of continuing training for Norwegian teachers. In order to combat the absence and absence of a master's degree at school, we need to invest heavily in teacher's skills and quality from the first class. The qualification of non-accredited teachers must be given the highest priority. If our 67,000 teachers are to be filled up professionally at today's pace, it will take many decades. No one can live with it, and not the students at all. Such a time perspective kills the motivation of all teachers who now need continuing training. It does not make school an attractive job, and can be devastating to the school’s ability to attract new skilled teachers in the years to come. Greater investment in continuing training for teachers is a good investment for the country. We need to raise ambitions, and for all those who are engaged in school as tools to balance social differences, motivated and qualified teachers in specialty are important. Earlier this year, the Storting heard the Minister of Knowledge legislating for more adapted continuing training courses in order to allow more people to participate. The 2011 budget refers to meetings with the parties and adjustments to the arrangement, but the allocation is on-site. I interpret it in such a way that the government either does not itself believe that the arrangements that have been made will work, or that other measures are considered more important. The consequences of the lack of commitment to continuing education in today’s situation will be that many students will have teachers without approved education for years to come. Several thousand teachers without formal approval and large teaching coal at the pension threshold are the biggest challenge of the Norwegian school. It seems more and more that the government is heading towards crisis-like conditions in school if, as the Right proposes, continuing training efforts are not stepped up radically as soon as possible. Right will make school a lighthouse in the community of competences. The school must be concerned with learning outcomes and must develop teaching skills in line with the needs of students and society. The struggle for the labour force is rife. Right-wing proposals for the right and obligation of continuing education and training with a personal EVU account for teachers in the country provide new opportunities for career development and can make school a much more attractive job and also encourage seniors to stand longer in the job, because that is what we will need. The scarcity of real-time trainers must be met by specific measures. The right and obligation to continue training is also the basis for an authorisation system for Norwegian teachers. Finally, I would like to mention our proposal, which is set out in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e525	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e528	One has to be concentrated, really quite well concentrated, to keep track of what's meant by who, and what's the difference or differences between the different parties on the civil side, by date, when one reads the two settings. It is clear that there is intense competition to be the best, or the most intense, of continuing training for teachers and that it must be marked by its own comments. So it's a little funny to read these two settings, for me at least. One must be particularly concerned about and interested in the political game in order to understand this marking competition between individual parties. For us red-green, it's particularly difficult to understand this need for self-marking in a field where there's a lot going on, where there's a lot of difference. A lot of it's right so good, there's a lot of dynamics, and there's a lot of open-ended testing, everyone agrees. And everyone agrees that someone with an open mind should be looking for better organisation and better content in this activity, cf. what the rapporteurs presented, and which I am sure the Council of State will present later. But wisely – because that’s a wise committee we’re dealing with – the sticks are almost completely gone when we come up with suggestions and recommendations. For example, in a situation where everyone agrees that EMU is something we need more, and that someone will bring this work together in a national escalation plan, while others see it as inappropriate, to me there is no dramatic disagreement. What else is suggested by the input, comes in line with many other good input that these days come from different parties and actors in this field. So it's very good that this is written down, and we've got a lot of different ideas. On one point I would particularly like to commend the Right and the Advancement Party. It's that the two parties don't seem to want to stand behind the proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party to take hours, fruits and greens out of our schools. I agree – to take a Bible-inspired formulation – that the schoolman cannot live on fruit alone. But I would have thought that the Left would soon suspend its fight against bananas in school, because I have noticed that there are in particular bananas that the Left dislikes in the Norwegian school. The committee was in Canada. There were several hours – half-nine-to-three school, as far as I discovered, what I would call a full-day school – and they were proud of it. They were so proud that they campaigned offensively to introduce food serving both in the morning and in the middle of the day. It was something far more than bananas they both showed us and served us. Note: there aren't so many days since we had a budget hearing where both the National Association for Public Health and the Cancer Association made clear contributions asking for more fruit and green. The current system is so good that it needs to be expanded, said the Cancer Association to us. Return to continuing education and some points from my side. First, in both settings, the teaching concept is used in the headings. We have to remember to also include instructors and other professionals who work at school, who also need the possibility of continuing education. I guess we all agree on that. So a little bit more about the general trend of continuing education in our society, which is so important, and which we need to pay more attention. The discussion on adult qualification does not apply only within the training field. Earlier in this room, I have referred to a book that I think is very important, which can almost represent us as a Bible, namely the Knowledge Society, which underlines a very important point, that the turning point for adults' qualification should be their own work, which is one of the main points of the book. ‘It is necessary to develop a culture of adult qualification and learning in relation to the areas of life in which they live and operate on a daily basis,’ they continue. In this context, we may need to challenge higher education institutions and universities in particular to develop both continuing and continuing training facilities that take this into account to a greater extent. Last night, several of us were committee members at a UN/NHO seminar where the headmaster of the Oslo College just underlined this point, that further development of the adult education profession is needed. Then it turns out that maybe we can get more out of the money, I think, by investing more in scholarships than what we do today. Maybe we could get more, maybe it could be a little less exclusive. The scholarship allows, and it lubricates. At the same time, we all certainly agree that entering into education while people are at work does not have to be seen as something weary and resource-consuming, but on the contrary that education at work should make learning richer, more relevant and thus more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e556	We get to believe that this is a wise committee that the representative claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e559	Continuing training of teachers has been a focus of the red-green government. If the school is to be current and relevant and create a good learning environment, it is absolutely necessary that we focus on the continuous development of the individual teacher's competence. And OECD reports state that teachers with a high level of professional and pedagogical competence are an important prerequisite for students’ learning. Therefore, it is worrying when Competence for Quality – Strategy for the further education of teachers 2009–2012 initially states that 40 pst. by primary school teachers, there is no professional depression in the subjects in which they teach. A so-called permanent system of continuing training, as set out in the strategy, is an answer to the need for continuous development of competence and to give all teachers professional competence. The proposals we are discussing here today deal with the rights and obligations of continuing education and more flexible provision of study and increase the proportion of funding by the state. For the Centre Party, it is important to stress that Quality Competence is a quite new strategy – a strategy that is unique because it obliges both state, school owners, school leaders and teacher organisations. We are therefore not going to support any of the proposals, as several of the proposals have been addressed through the strategy – the centre party also does not understand the fight against fruit – and not least because it is important to focus on how to meet skills for quality and use their experience to further develop the quality and scale of continuing training for teachers. Because we all have high ambitions in the field, there is no doubt about it. It is also an important point that the competence of teachers is not only ensured through state-funded continuing training. There are many good local arrangements and plans. I was a sailor and decided on a regional plan for the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen when I was in the local government in Dovre. It defines the region’s competence needs and situation and tailors the building of competence accordingly. The state contribution is part of a much larger whole. Then the committee has been given many impressions that the government offer is organized so that it is demanding to make use of it for schools and individual teachers. It also partly shows the recording numbers and the number of teachers that have been recorded. There is a problem that the parties involved, who have signed up to the strategy, must have a strong focus on the future. The offer must be organised in such a way that it is practicable to participate. The strategy must be effective, and there must be some experience, but the challenges of economics and organisation have been highlighted by the central parity. We will follow this closely forward and be open to discuss adjustments if developments are going in the wrong direction in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e572	One of the main goals of the Christian People's Party for the school is to put each individual student in the center and ensure all students challenges based on each individual's characteristics and potential. If we are to succeed, skilled and committed teachers are absolutely crucial. Both of the proposals we are considering today are about putting an even stronger pressure into the continuing training of teachers. It fully supports the Christian People's Party. Christian People's Party supports all Left's proposals in Document 8:145 S. We believe that these are good measures to increase funding for further training of teachers. We also support the proposal No. 1 and 2 in the proposal of the Right-wing Representative. A further pressure is needed for primary and secondary school teachers in the form of systematic continuing education. This, in addition to ensuring that there are a sufficient number of teachers, should be given the highest priority in the coming period. Adequate numbers of qualified teachers are far more important to prioritise than an extended school day, on which the government has chosen to invest the large amount of money. A study lab report has previously shown that the school has challenges related to uniform educational arrangements and inability to adapt education for students. At the same time, we know that there is a constant desire to adapt training to each individual student. With expectations of individual organisation and new up-to-date knowledge in education, it is essential to be able to provide teachers with time to improve their skills. Students in the Norwegian school are required to be engaged, up-to-date and knowledge-rich teachers. That's why we need to get teachers the best starting point for getting a school that's adapted to each student. Through the Knowledge Lift and the introduction of skills objectives in all curricula, teachers face new demands. Teachers need continuing training that covers both expertise, including vocational education, and more general pedagogical subjects. It is essential to ensure the participation of as many teachers as possible. In order to ensure the continuity of the needs of teachers and pre-school teachers for the maintenance and expansion of skills, a good, permanent system of continuing training must be in place to ensure the high quality of teachers related to the continuing objectives of learning. Further training, as a result of new nationally adopted reforms and changes, must be added and not be incorporated into an already existing system. Finally, I want to say that for the Christian People's Party, the teachers have been the key in all that time, and in all the things we've been sitting, both in position and in opposition, to get good results in school. Giving this profession an opportunity to perform the important role it has will allow one to see as a long, red thread in the history of the Christian People's Party, from Kjell Bondevik, from Jon Lilletun, and we want to maintain this pressure to give teachers the tools they need to give us the world's best school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e594	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e597	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e602	Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e605	I've been trying for a long time to think about what image I'm going to have on this debate, because it feels incredibly hopeless. It almost feels like being compulsive, and no one hears what you're saying. Same thing you say, they're just saying that they agree, clapping your head and asking you to keep going. It's kind of like the frustration you feel when you're four years old, and no one really hears what you're saying. I agree with everything you say about how important teachers are. That is the main reason why the Left is promoting this proposal that we are discussing today. The teacher is the most important input in the school. And I have to admit that I think there's almost no problem that the school is going to solve, that a good teacher can't solve. In the case of bullying, school results, poor pupils and strong students — there is nothing a good teacher can do to help. And that's what you say you agree with. Still, you can see that there are completely different things to bet on. The focus is completely different. We want to legislate on the knowledge of teachers – instead, there are other things you legislate. I'll come back to that, but first the important proposals. We need a plan to step up continuing education. You have to get it together with the municipalities. When we see that the municipalities do not use the offer that is there, we have to do something. We need to have some measures to ensure that the municipalities actually use the offer. We know that the reason the municipalities don't use it is not that the municipalities don't want it. The reason why it's not used is not that the teachers don't want to. There are other things that need to be done, and that's why you should have increased government funding – to get more people to use it, to get better teachers and to get better results. We see that we're going to have the same arrangement. Whether it's the doctor you're going to, or the academic at a university or someone else in our knowledge industries, it's seaworthy that everyone should have an ongoing education according to a certain plan. It's just our teachers who don't get it. The left is also open to discuss certification solutions, as proposed by the Right. However, we believe that this needs to be further investigated before we do – also because we have seen that the Left's sister party in Sweden introduced it a little too quickly, and made sure that there was a lot of trouble about introducing it. We can avoid that just as long as we prepare it well enough. And so: The fact that SV doesn't understand priorities, I'm not going to accuse SV of – they've never really done that. But what's important to understand is that here it's about priority, and maybe the other parties understand it. Because we know that the main input factor is the teachers. We know that the knowledge of the teachers is the most important thing we can do to make the school better. Why, then, are other things legitimized? Now you've been wearing five years, and what's the law? Well, you have legalized fruit and green -- bananas, pears or what it is. It is so important that we legislate! It was the first law enforcement in the school sector of this government. That's not what it's all about to come from. The fact that it costs a few hundred million kroner, it is not likely to come from – approx. 250 million. kr. That's what this government thought was most important. It's an irrevocable fact. The second thing to do is to expand the number of hours – when you know you don't have teachers! You know that the teacher is the most important input factor, but what do you spend money on? Yes, several hours with teachers who don't exist. And the last thing you do is bet on homework with unskilled! You know that teachers are the most important thing, so what's the third government rate on? Well, homework with unskilled. There are three important priorities; there are three major educational policy commitments. Then it doesn't matter to stand here and say that there are teachers who are most important, because then it's actually fruit and green, several hours and homework with unskilled who are most important. That is a clear priority. Then I don't understand why it's so hard to understand the panic and the feeling of being the little four-year-old that you just pat your head and say yes, that's okay, and then you go on with what you do. I realize it's fun to joke about bananas, but that's actually what you give the students. You know that it's wise teachers you have to give them, and that's not what you're betting on. The only thing you have done is to continue what was already in the promise of knowledge in the field of continuing training of teachers. I must say in all modesty that I am pleased, for it was the great victory of the Left in the promise of knowledge when we were in government. But we believe that it has to do more, and when you have a larger room for action, I think this would have been a much better bet than the priorities that the government has. It's called priority, and it would like to get an evening course if they want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e622	I understand that Left thinks SV has a lot to do with it. I can confirm that it's mutual. We're both parties, and all parties in this room are concerned with quality in school, and believe that it is related to the competence of the teachers. We need teachers who know their subjects and who are good knowledge intermediaries. As a result, priority number has been given to focusing on competences. 1 within the means available to the Ministry of Knowledge for the quality of initial training throughout our government period. Every year we've spent about 400 million on the state side. kr for continuing education. In addition, the municipalities have fulfilled their responsibilities and are committed to this. After the high-quality report of the school, which came in 2008, we have shifted the effort from a year-on-year post-secondary effort to a permanent system of formal continuing vocational training — and I stress further education — as part of the whole. The aim is to meet as much as possible the new skills requirements and to deepen the subjects in which they teach. It takes time to put this system in place, and during a phase-in period, a lot of funds have also been spent on continuing training, including: in evaluation and advice. Although the competence of school employees is a local employer responsibility, there is a broad political consensus that the State should contribute. The proposals from the Right and the Left that we are discussing today confirm this. They are aimed at increasing the proportion of state funding for continuing education, the introduction of grant schemes and obligatory escalation plans in order to increase participation in the continuing training studies. I agree with the goal of getting even more teachers into the further education system. But it's too easy to view this just as a money question. The emphasis on teacher competence extends beyond the investment in continuing education and training, and I will mention the recruitment of school leaders and teachers. Here, the GNIST campaign is set up in cooperation with the parties to improve the recruitment of teachers and the teaching profession and to increase the status of the teaching profession. We see an improvement in the recruitment process – and good! The parties cooperate on several different actions both at national and regional level. Then teacher training has been changed from now on in the autumn, with emphasis on more specialisation towards subjects and steps and with a new teaching and learning profession. Competence requirements at secondary school were strengthened in 2008. A minimum of 60 study credits were required in mathematics, Norwegian and English for all those to be enrolled to teach in these subjects. We have also now, in October, sent to the hearing a proposal for further strengthening of the competence code, with further demands for credits in specific subjects in order to teach at all levels of training. We are thus following up the big message about new teacher training, and we are doing all this to increase the quality of teachers. Guidance for newly-trained teachers has started. The government aims to provide guidance to all new teachers, and we have also launched a programme called ‘Evaluation for Learning’, which is a school-based competence development programme under assessment. So there is no lack of action. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left ask the Government to increase the State share of the funding related to continuing education for teachers and to present an obliging plan for continuing education, which shall include all teachers in Norwegian primary and secondary education. As I said, we use approx. annually. 400 million. kr on continuing training for teachers by the State. In addition, the contribution of the municipalities comes. I know that the municipalities want a higher proportion of government funding for the temporary employment costs for continuing training, and we will assess this distribution in more detail. However, when we do not fully reach the objectives of participation in the continuing education system today, there is little reason to believe that it is only the money that is involved. The challenge is to get teachers and school owners to take advantage of the study offerings developed and prioritised in formal cooperation between the State, KS, teacher and school leader organisations and National Council for Teacher Training. Some people have to do the job while the teacher is in further training. In a situation of very low unemployment among teachers, access to qualified temporary workers is a challenge. The aim of the students is that there must be quality in teaching at all times, even when teachers continue to train. And temporary costs are included in the agreement that the ‘Quality Competence’ strategy is about. Based on the numbers of applicants today, we have a reasonable level of the state framework for training. But of course I will consider this on an ongoing basis in future budgetary procedures. The distribution that the parties have agreed on in the strategy, I would say, is not a distribution that must remain forever. We will follow closely the participation in continuing education and training in the future and assess several new measures. However, obliging follow-up plans for the individual teacher are the school owners who have to take care of them. This is a clear employer's responsibility, and it is also the school owner who has to assess the usefulness and need of individual EVU accounts, as suggested by the Right. I think we have a good debate now on continuing training. But I would like to stress that the government is doing a lot of things to improve this, and the basis we have now is good for the further work we invite everyone to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e654	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e657	I hear no slamming of closed doors in this matter. It is quite natural, since the necessary measures are well anchored in the government's policies, for which the case-speaker did well. However, this does not mean that the theme of continuing education of teachers is immaterial to the teacher, to the school and not least to the pupils’ learning outcomes. It is often focused on the big difference it can be in results from a school to the next school. It's because we all too often experience a failing learning environment in some schools. This may, of course, be due to a lack of vocational training among teachers, but I would say that there is equally often a failure of the principal responsibility on the part of the school owner. I want to point out a bigger problem, that is, the difference we experience from one classroom to the next. There may be many times as big a difference as the difference between the different schools. And then we've come to the heart of this thing. The great inequality in results from one classroom to the next can mainly be traced back to different academic competences. However, it must be stressed that a commitment to continuing training is not enough to raise the result in the school. A little visit to the Left and Ski Grande: it must be possible to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. So I want to add that we have 3,000 schools in the country. We have 430 municipalities. They have the primary responsibility for this venture. In all modesty, I want to show you the good results that students in Sogn and Fjordne achieve. We have games at the top of most statistics in the country. Of course, I get flattered when one is constantly met with that this has its cause in the unique genetic origin with which all the soakings and fjords are equipped! Well, it could be. I'm not going to protest about it, but I'd rather rush to show you the systematic work being done in this area in Sogn and Fjordane. Local authorities are responsible for financing continuing training. On average, we have therefore been able to provide this to 300 teachers who have taken part in further training each year. And there's a lot in a state of only 1,500 students. The high ball in Sogn and Fjordane have made a huge effort – set up with 10–15 years of work. Another good example is regional cooperation between the municipalities of the inner Sogn. It has the title of ‘Studying — Turning Sogn’ and focuses on more competence and better results for students and enhanced cooperation. I would also like to mention different projects, which adapt training, digital school collaboration and focus on leadership and career planning in the school. That's the sum of this that's sent our students to the top of all statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e672	After the previous article I am happy that I am half sucking, because that promises well! Schools are constantly developing, many trials are being conducted, and many trials are required. Often sighting and testing are carried out without a basis in research. I think there'll always be a little bit of it in school. But there is one thing that is now behind research, which is determined, and that is that the quality of the teachers is absolutely crucial to the results of the school. The teachers themselves also say that they feel the need for continuing training. It has been shown here before that seven out of ten say that they need and want continuing education to become better teachers. I feel the need to establish that what we are discussing in these two cases today is not the new teacher training courses. No, it's the teachers who are in school teaching our children now and in the coming years, until those who are in the new education come. The proposals will establish the importance of this. With regard to the weighting from the position, which speaks nicely about this here today, I want to write myself into Trine Skei Grande's posts, because that's what I think she pointed out excellently. Our proposals address the obvious gap between intent and implementation. So, through the proposal of the Right, we want to grab hold of existing teachers, who are going to teach for many years yet and adapt in the short term. Because when it's like seven out of ten will, when there's a cooperation agreement on how to do it, and one doesn't get a payoff, then there's something wrong with the system, and we have to deal with that right now. That's what they're invited to do. I must say that I wish that the government parties could vote for today, but I am glad that they have not rejected our proposals. It is equally important now to think about the long term, so that one can commit and create predictability of a right and obligation on both sides, so that we ensure that there is constant development in teaching capacity and in the quality of teachers. So, in summary, even though Hagen is wondering about zeal and competition from the opposition parties about being on the track here, I take it as a reward. Yes, I will be eager. I would like to compete to be the best at equipping existing teachers for the future. We want to have a pressure on continuing education adapted to the teacher right away, and we want to create a systematic bet over time, with a right and duty and individual continuing training account. We still promise to be eager about this, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e694	The student is the most important resource in the school. The teacher must therefore meet the student at the level of the student and give the opportunity to develop on the basis of his own abilities and interests. The teacher's competence and manner of acting are crucial for the student's learning and development in the school. Unfortunately, it is still so that many teachers just turn the pile from the previous school year and continue with the same lesson as last year and the previous year. We don't want it like that in school. Adaptive and good training and continuous skills development for teachers and teachers must be at the heart of our education policy. The quality of teacher training needs to be improved and the information society of today needs to be adapted. In the school there is today, stronger than ever, competition for the student's attention and learning. The teacher should be able to learn all about current information technology developments and how these new technologies can and will be used in the training. Efforts to enhance the competence of teachers need to be targeted in an appropriate way with a view to quality. Teacher training schools can be a way to go. Motivated teachers with a high level of professional and pedagogical competence in all parts of the country must be our goal. This is why it is more important than ever to continue training in the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e705	I think it's a standing joke in prayer houses circles that it's easy to say hallelujah, but a little bit harder to do. I came to think of it when I heard the representative Hagen, who stamped at least right and certainly also the Left and the other parties in opposition who were only eager to participate in a marking competition. We're not just saying hallelujah when it comes to continuing training of teachers in Norwegian school, but we actually want to do it. It's possible that there we differ from the government parties. At least it sounded to Aksel Hagen as if it were a pretty big distinction. There's a red thread — or maybe a blue thread is a more correct expression — going through Right school policy. There are some key concepts that we actually mean something. We believe that knowledge is the most important result of the school, and we want to ensure that knowledge development and the production of knowledge in the school are of high quality. We are uncompromising on quality when we discuss different measures in school and school policy, and then we want to make demands. So there will be knowledge, quality and demands in this context for everyone: requirements for students, we are clear about that, demands for teachers, that is what we are discussing here today, demands for the principals, i.e. for the principals, and demands for the school owners, who are Norwegian politicians around the municipalities and county councils. Making demands has not always been legitimate to talk a lot about Norwegian school policy. We've probably had one too weak attitude to school content for too long, to school quality. That's why it might be the understatement of the year when it says the following in the government's competence strategy – it's been quoted in a previous post, but I repeat it anyway: ‘It is therefore a challenge that 40 per cent of primary school teachers have no professional depression in the subjects in which they teach’. It's a substatement that almost half of the teachers don't have it. I actually don't think that most people take on such a serious situation. In what other sector would this have been accepted? I can't imagine any other sector in which one would have accepted such a large part of what we can call unskilled labour, at least in terms of the professional content of what it is taught. That is why this matter is very important. That's why it's important for the Right not only to say that we're concerned with the quality and competence of teachers, but actually also to make concrete proposals to solve a situation that we can no longer accept to have in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e719	Yes, I opened my post a little freshly, but I concluded the more calmly, so at least I remember my own post. Because it's true, as Svein Harberg says, it's nice that you're eager. It's also nice for the position and government that the opposition is more eager than we are in the position and government. Therefore, so far – very good! Where I'm probably not willing to pull, is on what I said about fruit and green. Of course, we also agree that the teacher is important. We can also say the most important thing, but at the same time, everyone agrees that the teachers cannot be the only thing we are fully committed to. These include: What's called school construction, that's what's called teaching materials. There's also something called health, and there's something called well-being, which is also important in the context of learning. Then I can as well as other representatives here say that we know that well-being is important for learning, we know that health is important for learning, and that diet is part of it. So here's what Tor Bremer, among other things. I think we all agree on that: one must have several thoughts and instruments in his head at the same time. So a little bit more about this concern about the lack of competence of the teachers, which I share, so absolutely. What makes this even worse is that this is the situation of many professional groups in our society in the future. A few days ago, we heard that the same is true of clergymen, the same is true of civil engineers, the same is true of health, the same is true of dentists, etc. It shows that we have a bigger challenge in this field than just what is related to our school and education system. That's why this EVU effort in general in our society needs to be stronger and tougher than what we're doing today. Then, to take the point that I tried to make quite clear in my contribution too, it is not least important to go into the work situation, where people are at work, where people live, and get to the increased EVU activity with it as a starting point. In addition, I very much appreciate the fact that it is also clear that Nav is coming more and more on the track, so that we can also pick up those that are not exactly on a daily basis at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e729	This debate has made clear differences in priority between the opposition on the one hand and the government on the other. We agree with the meaning of the good teacher, but we obviously disagree on how much it should be spent to make the school a more attractive place for teachers and a better learning venue for whom the school is for, namely the students. Many students experience too little mastery at all levels of school, and other students are bored because they don't get enough challenges. In both cases, teachers with sound professional and pedagogical skills are needed to unload students for good results. When the teacher is most important and when research is so hard to establish, it is incomprehensible that the government will not give priority to continuing education. Instead, we feel that there is a focus on measures that we do not know about. It is a great paradox that the government is constantly legislating new measures that force municipalities to give priority to fruit and vegetables and homework rather than to bet on competent teachers. We are facing a challenging situation with an increasing teacher crisis in school, but funding for the further education strategy is on the ground. The right is in doubt about the government and the minister of knowledge seeing the full seriousness of today’s situation, where teacher competence largely and increasingly takes into account the needs of schools and students. The Tora Aasland Council noted that there was a reasonable framework for further training measures until next year. It is a little incomprehensible that the government can believe it when several thousand teachers in school today are without approved education where they teach, and when new skills requirements for teachers – both those adopted and the new ones notified and supported by the Right – will actually mean an even greater need for empowerment. The right believes that this can and must be done even more in order to make it better possible for teachers to combine continuing education and training with work and family obligations. I remind you again of the interpellation debate we had in ours, about better adapting the offers after recording both from the KS and from the teacher organisations. We need to learn from experience from the organisation of skills enhancement for the implementation of the Knowledge Promise and from municipalities and counties that have carried out extensive continuing training activities for a large number of teachers at a much lower price, even in combination with the fact that the teachers have been in their jobs. That's where the Council of State and several others have a point, that we have to be able to do both. While it is important to improve skills, it is also important that students have competent teachers in the classroom. I would like to say to Aksel Hagen: it is important to have an open mind, but it is also important that the Minister of Finance has an open money book in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e744	We have a good cooperation with the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance to get funding for schools in general. The 400 million. kr, which we have spent so far per year on continuing training, I believe is a very good contribution from the state. The strategy now in its second year, called Quality Competence, is the government's response to the questions put by the proposers. We want this to be the most important contribution to continuing training, in addition to what is now happening in the field of continuing training. Although we may have a little trouble getting enough participants in the continuing education system, we see that this is an improvement. Of course, we want to get it even better and will follow closely, so that we can change distribution keys, cost keys, as some of the measures. But competence for quality is a lasting commitment. It's a broad consensus, it's joined by many parties, it's a student point, and it's linked to the new teacher's education. It's not like we're going to wait until we get the first students from the new teacher training before we do something about continuing education. I'll do it at the same time. It is important that higher education institutions and teacher education institutions are also included in this agreement, because their efforts are crucial. The quality is guaranteed here, and there are very good feedback from the teachers about this particular continuing training. We are now working to facilitate more flexibility, facilitate the relationship between continuing education and training, and improve accessibility, because we are now linking the strategy to the regions established in the context of new teacher training. We must both ensure that there is a minimum distance between the teacher and the place of further training, we must ensure that the quality is maintained, and we must ensure that the enthusiasm for this action is maintained. So here I think we have a good answer. But as mentioned both by me earlier and by several: this is one of several measures. In the case of continuing education alone — which, of course, the municipalities, or the school owners, are responsible for — there were over 170,000 participants in various follow-up training measures in 2009. There are also quite a number of people in the field of continuing education, and there are measures that have been initiated by the school owners themselves. This is the contribution where the state goes in with quite a lot of money, and which we want to follow up, and this is the contribution that I hope will be a good guarantee that we will also get good teachers in the future, including teachers who are taking further training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e757	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Footing, see page 478]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e765	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e814	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e824	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e834	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 3, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, if necessary, to reverse previous decisions on, inter alia, hourly extensions and statutory distribution of fruit and vegetables in order to finance an increased investment in the further training of teachers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e861	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a transitional period to increase the State share of the funding related to the continuing training of teachers in order to make the system of continuing training effective.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e876	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present an obliging escalation plan to increase the number of teachers covered by the continuing education system beyond the current level of ambition of 2 500 teachers per year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e887	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e892	It's possible to fix it right here and now, if that's okay with the representative. That's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e909	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, proposal No. 4, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to put in place an authorisation system for Norwegian teachers in order to stimulate more active career planning and skills building based on the right and obligation of continuing training through the career cycle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e939	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish a system of individual EVU accounts for teachers, which is made available in cooperation with the employer.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e954	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement a specific programme of scholarships for the recruitment and further training of real-time teachers in secondary education in order to close the gap in competence that will otherwise arise.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e971	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit an obliging plan for continuing education for the 2012 budget covering all teachers in Norwegian primary and secondary education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more flexible models of continuing education and training to be organised by the government, where municipalities are given greater influence over the design of study facilities so that more teachers can increase their skills more quickly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-29.ana.ud2117e1013	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
