ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e84	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The request for sick leave has been lodged with the representative of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide from 15 December to 17 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Afshan Rafiq, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e107	Afshan Rafiq is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e123	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. Then we are ready to start with the first main question, which is from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e132	It may seem as if it has begun to become a habit for the red-green government and its politicians to make well-placed promises when there is a campaign, then to spend time between elections trying to explain all the promises you make in a campaign, which perhaps contributed to more people voting red-green than it should be strictly. After all, we have experienced it in several election campaigns, that suddenly and by chance, a happy message came from the red-green government about an industrial power regime, and that it was therefore important for the government to continue. After all, everyone sees the outcome – and it may not be entirely applause from the powerful industry. Similarly, I was at the hospital in Ålesund during the 2007 election campaign. I was going to have a meeting about the hospital development in More and Romesdal – so far linked to many other local hospitals around the country. Just that day, incidentally because I was in More and Romesdal, the Prime Minister found it reasonable to come sailing in a helicopter to promise both the new Children's Department to one hospital and the expansion of the Molde Hospital. It was a promise that was made unconditionally. The Prime Minister was so afraid to be misunderstood that he even sent out a press release in mid-2007, where he was quite clear that there were no conditions attached to the expansion of the Molde hospital, rather on the contrary. That was to happen, and the start was to take place in 2012. It has subsequently been confirmed by several health ministers in the red-green government. What has happened then, when the health minister who is sitting has now put this whole project on hold and is indebted to lack of money, and it is suggested that this will not be implemented until 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e141	First, I would like to wish the representative Siv Jensen Christmas. Then I'd say I'm flying helicopter when necessary. And then I want to say the following: we have invested significantly in hospitals in this period. We have invested significantly in hospitals after the state assumed responsibility for the hospitals. Investments have tripled, and the number of patients treated has increased significantly. We are committed to having equal and fair rules of play across the country, so that when we now build hospitals, for example. Ahus in Akershus, starts building a new hospital in Fredrikstad, invests large sums in St. Olav's Hospital, makes new investments in Stavanger and Bergen – Haukeland – Blackland and many other places in the country, it is because we have expanded the financial framework of health companies, and because we follow the same rules across the country, namely that investments should be financed within the framework. So we've changed the funding, so it takes into account what's called depreciation, precisely because we're also going to have money to invest in new hospitals. This also applies to Health Mid-Norway. Time and again, it is underlined that the investments to be made in hospitals in Health Mid-Norway are of course to be financed according to the same rules and in the same way as hospital investment in the rest of the country is financed. We have had room for large investments in Ålesund, we have had room for large investments in St. Olav's Hospital, we have had the aim of getting investments in Molde in 2012 – that is, start-up – but it has been underlined in writing and orally many times that it is assumed that it can be taken within the economic framework of Health Mid-Norway. Health Mid-Norway has made it clear that they do not have the opportunity, and therefore it will take longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e150	I would also like the Prime Minister to have a really good Christmas, but then he should use Christmas to think through how it feels for the voters out there to be thoroughly deceived by Stoltenberg's election vows. Instead, I referred to the promises he made in 2007, but he repeated them in 2009. He then said clearly that a new hospital in Molde would be carried out as previously promised. No conditions attached to it! After all, I hear from the Prime Minister's answer that he's fossilized so badly that it's as if he's replaced the years with a hanging engine. I understand that need, because it is a strenuous exercise to explain itself away from as clear and unambiguous promises that this government has made to maintain all the local hospitals – even building them out – so as to start explaining the same voters and the same inhabitants why you didn't think it that way. I have to say it's hollow to use economics as arguments. Norway is going by hundreds of billions in surplus. We can afford to do this if we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e157	I maintain what I have said all along, that our goal is to continue building a new hospital. But just as it was in Fredrikstad, just as it was in other major hospital investments, we've said that we can have goals about years, but that we're going to get it done within the financial framework. It has been said clearly several times by health ministers — both in writing and orally. This means that we have experienced that some projects have taken longer, that they have therefore been on time, but that they have come later. It would be completely unreasonable if we now discriminated against one project in central Norway over other projects elsewhere in the country. When Health Mid-Norway says that they do not have the opportunity to take this within the framework, it is entirely in line with what we have said, that it will take a little longer before the start of that project can happen. But there are now three times as many investments in hospitals as before the state assumed responsibility for hospitals. The size has joined an investment regime, i.e. rules on how to invest in hospitals, which just underlines that it should be financed within the framework of health enterprises. The State is prepared to make its share on the day on which the health business is ready for its part.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e164	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e167	Despite the fact that we have lots of what we see as promises, I understand the Prime Minister, and Raymond Johansen on TV yesterday, to the point that promises are not made. On the other hand, we have the entire population of Moldova, professionals in hospitals, trade unions, not least the local team of the Workers' Party, candidates from the Workers' Party, and big-time representatives here in the Chamber of the Workers' Party, who have seen this as a promise. I am now recording that the Prime Minister is once again trying to get away from these promises, trying to present it differently. The situation is that we have Raymond Johansen and the Prime Minister on the one hand, who say that there is no promise, and then we have on the other hand since all of the people I mentioned, who perceive that a promise has been made. Can the Prime Minister at least reach as far as to say that they have been somewhat unclear?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e174	I understand very well that it is a very strong commitment to the hospital. It's all over the country. So we're building a lot of new hospitals, we're investing significantly in hospitals, and we're going to keep doing that. We're also working on getting to the project we've been talking about all along in Health Mid-Norway. So what's the challenge is that this is clearly underlined over and over again – and I have, for example, a press release from 3 October 2008, i.e. in good time before the 2009 elections – both from the Minister of Health and from the health business. The assumption is that Health Mid-Norway as a whole keeps the economy in order, and that we stay within the financial framework allocated, says Kolbjørn Almlid in a press release – that is, as a prerequisite for implementing these investments. It is not possible to achieve it within the economic framework. We cannot discriminate between different hospital projects. Everyone has to be treated in the same system as Stortinget has joined, and then we say that the government is doing with its share the day Health Mid-Norway is able to do with its share. They are not in 2012 – Health Mid-Norway has made that clear. Then we can't start to discriminate between different projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e181	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e184	I understand that the Prime Minister started by wishing Siv Jensen Christmas, because trusting, or believing, promises from the Prime Minister and the Workers' Party is exactly the same as believing in Christmas. Now, vital decisions for the population are taken by faceless bureaucrats, while the Minister of Health is totally caught by the system she is actually responsible for governing. It is now the case that an overall opposition agrees with the Right that it is time to wind up regional health businesses. Yes, SV and the Central Party agree with the Right that it is time to wind up the regional health companies, and large counties in the Workers' Party, such as the Buskerud Workers' Party, now agree with the Right that it is time to wind up the regional health companies, place responsibility for health policy where it belongs, namely, in bulk and government, and leave the management of hospitals to those who work with the patients, to those who are close to the employees. When will the Prime Minister realise that it is time to wind up regional health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e194	The important thing we did in 2001 was we let the state take responsibility for the hospitals. There has been a very successful reform, which means that instead of dealing with almost 100 different hospital units, we are now dealing with 20 different health companies. Instead of dealing with 20 different hospital owners, 19 county municipalities and the state, we relate to one hospital owner – the state. This has led to a sharp increase in the number of patients treated, leading to a triple in hospital investment, leading to stronger activity growth – that is, a stronger increase in the number of patients now than when county authorities were responsible for hospitals – and this has led to a good productivity growth, i.e. we get more money back in hospitals. Of course, that doesn't mean we don't have many unresolved problems. We are concerned about waiting times, we see that there are large, increased needs, and that there are many unresolved problems in the Norwegian health system. But that the state took responsibility, that we got better coordination, for example. that we do not treat cancer in very many different hospitals, but have collected it in some hospitals and have been given a better distribution of work, thus providing better treatment, and there are many who survive after cancer treatment. Overall, there's a good way to do it. [[The President clubs.]] Then we'd like to discuss how we organize it, but that the state should be responsible, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e203	The President must be reminded that speaking time is 1 minute. Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e208	I also have a whole pile of broken promises from various government councils in today's government. The representative Siv Jensen himself referred to what the Prime Minister said in the 2007 election campaign, and I will refer to what Sylvia Brustad said in 2008. She said she didn't understand that people in the county – that is, in More and Romesdal – were worried about this coming into place. There was no reason, because the planning of the two projects would continue – people in More and Romesdal could be sure that both of these things came into place. So to a last statement from today's Health Minister, who yesterday asked the question, is this the right project for the future? My question then becomes the Prime Minister: does the government keep the population from being fooled? Or does the government have a hidden agenda, where the goal is that there will be fewer hospitals in More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e215	I stress again that we are continuing to work on the plans, we are continuing to work on the design, and we are investing significantly in hospitals. However, it has been said several times, in writing and orally in press releases and in other contexts, that the prerequisite to get started in 2012 is that it can be financed like all other hospital projects. It was also said by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on 3 October 2008: this, of course, provided that the overall picture will also have the economy to run the new hospital, and that the need for government loan funds will be assessed in individual budgets. And also Kolbjørn Almlid is clear that it will be financed within the usual investment frameworks. Health Mid-Norway says today that they do not have the opportunity to do so. On the state side, we're willing to do our share on the day that Health Mid-Norway has an economy that allows them to keep their share. They don't have it today. Then that assumption is not met, and then we can't get started in 2012. We are busy getting started as quickly as possible, but then we need to further strengthen the hospitals' economy, and the government will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e224	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e227	The Prime Minister says in a slightly top-down position that he understands that people are getting engaged in the hospital case. We see that in the Left too, because it's about the basic security that people feel. People now feel that they have a prime minister and a government council that has promised things they don't hold. The left started in the fight against the official state. Now we're actually seeing many of the contours we fought in 1884, in some corporations, that people feel totally powerless about. There are no elected bodies you can use to push something forward, because they've said something other than what they're really doing. Now we see that frustration is growing. But it's safe here. That's why it engages so many. In today's Firda, Jorunn Kirketeig of the Workers' Party says that one must stop being so afraid of not having a birth service nearby: ‘Those who arrive quickly in a taxi or car are doing well.’ This is what Jorunn Kirketeig said from the county pulpit. Does the Prime Minister realize that people feel insecure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e241	I understand very well that people are concerned about security. I understand very well that people are afraid of everything that can be experienced as a weakening of local health services. That is why we have said that we should maintain all local hospitals, and that is why we have said that we need to strengthen local health services, both public and municipal, not least through the cooperation reform. But we have also said that we should get a better work distribution between different hospitals, because it can improve quality. Quality is not always measured in kilometres, but it is actually measured in quality at the different hospitals. Now that we're collecting a lot of problems in some hospitals, we're getting better quality. The most important thing is not always to get to the nearest hospital, but it is to get to the best hospital. So the fact that we're going to have better work sharing between hospitals is not something that weakens security. This increases safety, because overall we get better health services. So there's almost 80,000 more patients being treated, and we're getting more successful treatment now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e248	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e251	On Saturday, Sweden experienced one of the most nightmare-like scenarios in many of our Western democracies: they experienced their first suicide bombing. The threat of terrorism has been a constant threat, at least in the last ten years, to many of the European countries. Therefore, there has been a great and important need to have good strategies both for preventing, combating and responding well to the challenges posed by international terrorism and the crunches and sources available to enable terrorist acts to take place in our country. In parallel with our neighbouring country experiencing a dramatic situation, we are now experiencing a discussion based on the new information that has come to light on our allies' assessment of our counter-terrorism, which gives cause for concern. There are descriptions, not least in relation to the case that is currently under investigation, that we do not have enough resources to carry out a survey, that the survey resources of the Norwegian PST are too poor. The cost picture is so big in these cases that we simply cannot follow all the tracks. At some point, we were offered a tactical team from the United Kingdom to assist in this matter. That's what PST said no thanks to. My question to the Prime Minister is: are these concerns that now arise from our allies, concerns that the government is also familiar with both in relation to the big picture and the matter in question, and was the government involved in saying no to a contribution from the United Kingdom to help in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e260	Compared with most other countries, Norway is a safe country to live in. Nevertheless, we must take threats and risks of terrorist acts in our own country in the greatest seriousness. This is not least because the police security service can tell us that there are now developments in Norway that make us more like countries where terrorist acts have taken place. This means that the government is doing a lot of things to prevent and combat possible terrorist acts in Norway. Point one: we're just following up the representative that Solberg was concerned about, that is, strengthening the PST. PST has been significantly strengthened in recent years. Since 2005, the budget has been increased by more than 50 pst. The number of persons employed in the PST has increased by 30 p.m., so that the police security service is significantly strengthened. In addition, the police are generally strengthened. Point two, we just put forward a plan to prevent terrorism. Some people believe that – what to say – is not effective. I believe that we need both police, surveillance – the classic police instruments – and prevention. We know, among other things: from the United States, and we know from our own work against neo-Nazi environments, that we are entering extreme environments early, we can dissolve them and reduce the basis for recruitment to terrorist acts. Point three: We are committed to providing the police with the tools they are occupied with, and one of the important tools the police and the police security service want is access to traffic data. Traffic data on the Internet, on mobile phones, is crucial according to the police themselves for, among other things, to combat terrorism, to investigate terrorism and to roll up networks. When we do not want Norway to have a significantly weaker and worse regulation than our European neighbours in this area and want to introduce the EU Data Storage Directive, it is not least because we want to have an effective tool in the fight against terrorism. We are aware that the PST wanted to increase resources. We've given the PST more resources, and we're looking at each budget every year. But also in this year's budget, the appropriations for the PST increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e273	I noticed that the Prime Minister did not respond to my question, whether he was familiar with the concerns from sources other than the PST, or whether he was in the process of assessing his no thanks to international assistance in this matter. I believe that it is absolutely right and good that we strengthen the PST. But today, Secretary of State Terje Moland Pedersen says, ‘there will always be a question of what is good enough.’ [[...]] It is this room that has to decide what is good enough in terms of budgetary appropriations. It's Storting's responsibility. The truth is that the Stortinge today does not receive information other than in the makeup that the Prime Minister gives of what has happened in terms of crime prevention and, in particular, terrorist prevention. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is very specific and simple: will the Prime Minister agree that an external review of the situation of the PST is now being carried out, what needs we have for resources and interpreting services, so that we can be strengthened in the fight against terrorism, and that a suitable forum is being presented within the Stortinget, so that we are sure that the Norwegian people will have security?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e288	We answer the questions about the size of different budget chapters, including, of course, those that can be published about PST's work. We have met with the PST on their budgetary needs. We've given PST significantly increased funds. All the details there are better that the Minister of Justice responds to the individual specific projects. But the PST has asked for more money, and they've got more money. The size can ask questions and then get answers to those questions. But one of the most important PST requests is access to traffic data, and it does not help to allocate more money to the PST if the PST is deprived of one of its main instruments, namely the ability to access traffic data online, on the mobile, and cannot use it in the fight against terrorism. The very serious thing is that if we do not introduce those kinds of rules in Norway, we will have substantially weaker legislation in Norway than in other European countries. It will weaken our work against terror.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e295	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e298	I understand that the Prime Minister is on some sort of autopilot from the government conferences trying to convince government colleagues about the Data Storage Directive. I'll leave it, because Erna Solberg's last question was really an outstretched hand to the government. Will the government seek contact with the Storting to in a way convince the Storting that the reports we have received are erroneous, when they give the impression that: ‘ Norway does not have the physical or technical resources necessary for monitoring: [[...]] [[...]] It's just one of several leaks that have occurred lately. I have to say that it's not quite different from the reports that we like to get from PST that scanning capacity towards people with a language that needs to be interpreted is a big problem for PST. We cannot live with that, and I ask the Prime Minister once again to assess whether he will not respond to this invitation other than to say that one will answer questions. Because you actually don't, and then you have to discuss where you can do it in a confidential way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e308	Firstly, I have no ambition to convince the other two government parties to be in favour of the Data Storage Directive. That's what I gave up in Soria Moria II. On the other hand, I have ambitions to convince the Right Party and the Advance Party that the police should be given the tools that they themselves believe are absolutely essential, among other things. to combat terrorism, which will mean that we do not have a significantly worse regulation in Norway than we do in other countries. This is what the police themselves believe is crucial, and they have told us. They have said that to the public, and they have to say that to the Storting. So I meant to be positive in the sense that I'm concerned that if the Right or other parties on the Storting have questions about PST's needs, about PST's work and about PST's budgets, you can usually ask those questions the Minister of Justice, I'm absolutely sure, is set to answer as far as it can be done in public. If, in addition, there is a need for more information in more confidentiality, first of all, Storting has bodies to handle it, so we can handle it there. If there is also a need for even more forms of communication, we can also discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e317	For follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e320	Let me first say that the police security service has access to traffic data, and the most important thing now is to ensure that the PST keeps access to the traffic data you already have today. But my challenge to the Prime Minister is, in the wake of both Erna Solberg and Per-Kristian Foss, better communication tools between big business, government and underlying agencies. Because there is no doubt that what this autumn has shown itself in a number of cases that PST has huge challenges, and that our secret services have great challenges. It seems that the description of reality, both in relation to the level of threat, the tools available, and the tools you need, needs to be reviewed and that you need to work on it continuously. The Progress Party has several times proposed a Security Committee on the Storting, which may have a continuous dialogue with government and underlying agencies, so that if large resources are needed, they can quickly be converted into the PST and the secret services. How does the Prime Minister feel about such a committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e327	Firstly, it's a little confusing what the Progress Party really thinks about police access to traffic data. One day they say that there is a very serious attack on privacy, and the other day they say that it is good that the police have access to this type of data. The problem with police access today is, first of all, that it is only justified for billing reasons – for commercial reasons. It is a little strange that our need for security reasons — for criminal reasons — should be conditional on what telecommunications providers need to store traffic data for purely commercial reasons, especially when commercial data storage is reduced because new billing methods make it less necessary to store traffic data in order to send reminders and collection requirements and what it may be. So I think it's strange that the Progress Party's attitude to these questions depends on billing practices around in telecommunications companies, and we have very poor access to data online. We're not talking about content. We're talking about traffic data. I believe that we have a good way to organise dialogue with the Storting – through questions, through the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. But I'm open to discuss other forms of giving the Storting the information Stortinget needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e334	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e337	It is difficult to believe in the Prime Minister today, because he takes the time to talk about the Data Storage Directive – a directive that came four, five years ago and that the government has agreed to introduce. So if it were as important as the prime minister trying to point out that it is, he should have brought it a long time ago. But the serious thing about this is that our allied US is so concerned about Norway's ability to fight terrorism. There's nothing new, but what's new is that the PST manager, or the then PST manager, paints a gloomy picture of Norway's ability to protect itself from terror. Does the Prime Minister share the concerns of the PST Chief, or is he mistaken?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e342	I'm talking about data storage because I got a question about what the government is doing to combat terrorism, preventing terror. The Data Protection Directive was drawn up in response to the terrorist acts taking place in London and Madrid. The reason why we should have a systematic access to traffic data – not content in text messages, not content in e-mails, but when and to whom people have called, if there is a suspicion of serious crime, and a court has said yes, the police can have access – is that the police believe that it is an important tool to combat serious crime and counter terrorism. That is why I am talking about the Data Storage Directive. It's true that we have some access to that type of data today, but it's completely dependent on commercial considerations, and access is getting smaller, and that's the problem. I want the same rules in Norway as in the rest of Europe. I'm aware that the PST wants increased resources. I've responded to it several times now. We have increased the appropriations by over 50 pst, the number of posts by 30 pst, and then we get back to further increases in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e351	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e355	I want to return to the situation in the hospital sector, which is very alarming, and which is marked by outrage. But first of all, a really good Christmas to the Prime Minister! It's not my job, and neither is it necessary to tell the Prime Minister why we're celebrating Christmas, but I have to remind you that Christmas is also about a young family who had problems finding a safe place to live in the small town. Hospitals are one of our most important welfare assets, and it takes great political wisdom to govern them. I remember one day in October 2001 when I was on my way up Akersgata. Earlier, and then departed, Prime Minister Stoltenberg was on his way to Stortinget. We met there, and the former Prime Minister said, "Now you're looking after my reform!" I promised to do that. It was introduced, as it was adopted at Stortinget. It's almost ten years ago. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that we now see clear need to reform the reform, because it has been used not to take responsibility, which was intended, but to push responsibility. We've seen this today. The Prime Minister shifts responsibility for his own promises to a regional health company because they have sent a letter saying that the framework does not hold up. But, Prime Minister, who is it that decides the framework? And if it wasn't that when the Prime Minister was in opposition, he ran next to the government and said that the frames are too small, the frames are too small, and we had to grant additional funds here in Stortinget. That's how you do it when the frames are too small, and you have to fulfill your promises to the inhabitants. So my question is, wouldn't it have been a thought that the Prime Minister would sit down with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health and found that we need to provide an increased framework for 2012, so that this start of construction can take place – and then start looking at whether the reform ‘our’, Prime Minister, should be reformed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e364	First I would like to wish the representative Højbräten also a very good Christmas. I fully agree that the local hospital offer and the emergency and food supply in Jerusalem 2 000 years ago were certainly deficient. I do not take full responsibility for it, but I am responsible for the food supply in Norway in 2010 and in the following years. I do so on, among other things. to follow up the reform that I am very pleased that the representative Højbräten, when he was Minister of Health, was busy implementing. Although there are many unsolved tasks, and although there are major remaining problems in the Norwegian health service, we still have to assume that there is a hospital where there are 115,000 people working every day, doing a fantastic job, where 100 billion are used. kr in the year at the hospital, and where we get significantly better results now than before the state took over responsibility for the hospitals, both measured in the number of patients treated and measured in terms of how much health we get per head used in health care. Productivity has increased. A separate research report from the Research Council involved in the reform documents this. The investments in hospitals are, as I say, tripled, and the most important thing is that we have improved quality, and we have significantly improved coordination between hospitals. You specialise and get better treatment, for example. within cancer. I believe that all reforms should be evaluated and evaluated. I believe that the main feature of a social democrat is to be able to reform the reforms, and I am at any time willing to discuss adjustments, changes in the means of achieving the basic objective: a good health service across the country. Then we must also extend the framework. We're expanding the framework, we're also doing it next year, but I'm concerned that the rules of the game are kept in relation to investment, and then it's the way that health companies have to invest in the framework they get.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e371	First, let me make it clear that I have no knowledge of the food supply in Jerusalem 2,000 years ago, but we have a very good record of the food supply in Bethlehem. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e376	We take responsibility for the food supply throughout the country, at local hospitals and at major hospitals, but we are busy doing it in a clean and proper way, where we take responsibility in the same way and do not discriminate between different hospitals. That's why we've been concerned about expanding the investment framework, i.e. the hospital framework, so that we can invest more in hospitals. We have tripled the investments in hospitals, and money will also be spent on refurbishment of the hospital in Molde, according to Health Mid-Norway. But what I'm concerned about is that we're going to be able to do it in a clean and proper way, where we don't discriminate in hospitals, and where there are the same rules that apply, whether we invest in the hospital in Eastfold, or it's Haukeland, or it's in Stavanger or in Molde. Then we have always said that investment in a new hospital in Health Mid-Norway must take place within the investment framework they have. As Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten in his time said, it was not appropriate to give extra money to it. He just exposed a hospital in Molde, referring to the financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e381	There will be additional questions – first Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e384	The other day, Arne Strand, chief editor of the Newspaper, had an article. I couldn't say it better myself. ‘Health policy has never been easy, but it has never been as sick as it is now. Had even the Minister of Health been able to explain to people that the purpose of the closure of emergency wards and the relocation of food departments is to provide better health services to people, she could be supported by the population. Here she failed. People think it's about saving money. In addition — and even more so for the government — the Minister of Health is no longer in control of developments. The directors of regional health establishments do what they like.’ They actually do. We don't have equivalent health services in our country. We have huge health differences. My question is: why does the government not take control of the national health plan, which is now to be developed, create a hospital plan for the whole country, define what a local hospital should be, and create security for the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e394	It is precisely so that the Stortinget has asked for its own plans to be made for the food supply around the country. It has now been done by health businesses. Some of what creates discussion and uncertainty around the country is that when health businesses go through it, they look at changes and adjustments, and then there is uncertainty. I think it is right for health care companies to make a unanimous decision, namely to go through the food supply – not to save money, but to ensure good quality. For this reason, separate guidelines have now been put in place to try to establish a stricter requirement for the quality of food supply around our country. The Minister for Health has said that she wants it on her table, so that we take a political view of it. We will also present a national health plan and the Stortinget will be given the opportunity to discuss general health policy guidelines on several occasions. Already until spring comes the first round.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e399	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e402	Then I think we're going to move from Jerusalem, Bethlehem and the West, which this matter is really about. I first want to address something the Prime Minister himself referred to in his previous reply to me, namely a press release from Health Mid-Norway in 2008, where he found it too easy to read a sentence of many sentences. I just want to remind you that in that press release, the headline is that it is realistic to start construction in Molde in 2012 if Health Mid-Norway keeps track of the economy. I would like to remind you that Health Mid-Norway is running out of money, while the hospital to be built in Eastfold is being built in a health region with deficits. So this isn't related. But now the status is such that it is expressed distrust, not from the opposition this time, but from the Prime Minister's own party traps and central working party tops in the West. My question will then be, how does it feel to have distrusted from one's own in contrast to the opposition, for once?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e407	There is – what to say – a long tradition in Norway that there is a very strong commitment around local hospitals. I understand that very well, because it is important for the provision of health in the local settings. It's an important job, and there's important skills there. That's why this government has said that we're not going to shut down local hospitals, but we're going to look at the division of work between local hospitals. In addition, we have said that we are committed to increasing investment in hospitals. We have increased the framework considerably. Therefore, there is now more investment in hospitals than ever before. But we've also been concerned that there should be the same rules, the same arrangements, that apply throughout the country for investing in new hospitals. This is why, among other things: in the press release and elsewhere said that the prerequisite for us to start investing in a new hospital, whether it's in Molde or Sarpsborg in Health South-East, is that the health company can take its share, and then we come with our share. The state is prepared to give its share when Health Mid-Norway has an economy that allows them to finance their share.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e412	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e416	I find that asking the Prime Minister for health policy questions gives the same answers as when asking the Minister for Health. That's the system to defend. One is not concerned with finding solutions that work for patients, and generally points to regional health businesses. The need for a new hospital in Molde is obvious to everyone who has been and seen the condition of that hospital. The situation is so serious that even the health minister says there is a need to use a hundred million kroner to adjust that hospital, while waiting for Health Mid-Norway to get liquidity to invest in a new hospital. Wouldn't it be more reasonable then to open up to Public Private Cooperation, which would allow one to build a new hospital faster, get it in place, instead of wasting hundreds of millions of dollars on a hospital building that in any case will not be used for that business in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e423	No matter when you start building a new hospital in Molde, it will require refurbishment of the existing hospital. It takes time to build a new hospital, and the constitution of that hospital is so bad – among other things. windows must be replaced – that refurbishment must take place in any case, according to Health Mid-Norway, and that will happen. Then, in the case of Public Private Cooperation, it was actually launched in 2004. It was then rejected by the then government, where the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left sat. Dagfinn Højbräten had a long interview in Romsdal's Budstikke where he explained why he was against the construction of a new hospital in Molde, and refused private funding. I expect the government to be behind it at that time. It was economics that made Dagfinn the Høybråten postpone the construction of a new hospital in Molde in 2004, and it is economics that makes us now also postponing the construction of a new hospital. But we say that when Health Mid-Norway is able to finance the investments, the state is ready to stand still with its share.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e430	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e433	If you listen to the Prime Minister today, you hear a whole tirate of excuses from previous promises. We see a government trying to say that this isn't really their responsibility, it's really a mechanism and a being out there. But then we see that the Minister of Health would like to intervene directly in order to name hospitals in Oslo. The Prime Minister said, "We are responsible for the food supply throughout the country." I want to repeat my question, and that is a simple yes-or-no question. The poor workers' party people who have been sent around the country to defend what the government stands for are becoming quite desperate in their argumentation, as I referred to from today's Firda. Then I simply want to ask the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister share the view that it is perfectly right to have to be born in a car, boat or taxi on the way to the hospital – because most of the births are going well, and then you also have to be able to carry out a birth in a car? Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e440	No, I think it is not good to be born in a car, boat or in other means of transport. I believe that people should be born in maternity wards, women's clinics, feeding rooms in reassuring conditions, and that is what we are doing. But it's the way we're concerned that there's going to be good quality on that offer. This is also the reason why a unanimous increase has asked for a review of the food supply, and that is what health businesses have done. It is precisely to ensure that people should be close to good offers across the country and that we should have less differences in quality and food provision for people throughout Norway. We're working on that, and it's strange if the government didn't do what the Storting has decided to do when reviewing the food supply. The aim is to improve it, to strengthen it and to improve it — of course not to impair its quality. So it's much less about money, it's much more about quality than many people think.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e445	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e448	In my hand I keep a sheet about something that certainly warms a social economist's mind. There is an overview from the Nord Pool power exchange that shows that we realize the values in Norwegian hydropower. Yesterday – shows the overview – the power companies were able to sell the electricity for more than 2 kroner per kWh, parts of the day, and that is before charging electricity, VAT and network rentals. That's good income for the state. While the state smiles, business and people experience most of the situation as difficult and unacceptable. The economy is becoming uncertain, and businesses are shutting down. Of course, the solution to these things is long-term, one needs to improve power generation, have more one-way and get more power lines. The government promised to have a plan of action for Middle Norway, but it is probably a breach of promise – a package of measures like this has never been delivered to Stortinget. But it is possible to give a handshake to ordinary people in this situation, even in the short term. On 25 November this year, the opposition promoted a proposal to use the housing aid to remedy the situation of those suffering particularly in periods of high electricity prices. The parties to the government selected to vote against it. The party proposed to reduce the electricity charge in times of high electricity prices. The government has refused. Enova, which is to provide support for anincreased measure in households, is now running out of money. But there is power production in central Norway that is not in use. The government's spent $2.5 billion. NOK to buy two mobile gas plants – which are standing still. Today they're only going to start up if it's more than 50 pst. the possibility of collapse of the system. I think we should take the price signals seriously. When the electricity price is over 2 kroner per kilowatt hour, the market signal is that something is serious wrong. It makes no sense to keep a power plant stationary when the market says it is in deep imbalance. Last year the electricity price was over 14 kroner per kWh for periods, without the government thinking it was worth starting up the mobile gas power plants. The question is: will the government now take lessons from last year's situation and change the policy-specific rules for the mobile gas power plants, so that one can have a precautionary approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e461	Firstly, I am also concerned about the power balance, the power situation, in Norway. The important things are about fundamental changes. On the one hand, it is about increasing power generation, but on the other hand, it is important – it is about increasing power transmission, i.e. building up the grid. For the problem in Norway is that over the years, we have normal excess power, but we do not have power in those places in the country – and in those seasons – where there is a shortage of power. That's why we get big variation in price. That is why we need to strengthen power generation, but essentially by power delivery. The government is doing something about that. We are building a pipeline from Sima to Samnanger – plant start has started. We are ready to make a decision about not so long in the case of Ørskog-Fardal, which will be a very important contribution to strengthening the power situation in Middle Norway. We opened a new line in spring, from Sweden and into Middle Norway, and this year, Mid Norway has had very large imports – 7 TWh – and the ability to import power into Middle Norway will be strengthened when we get another line in place. It's true that these things take some time, even though some of them are already in operation, that is, the new management from Sweden. In addition, the government has ensured that we have received two mobile gas power plants. We have been notified of – or I think we may have already received – an application from Statnett to change the conditions for start-up. We're set to do that, get a quick treatment, so the threshold for using the mobile gas power plants is going to be a little lower than today. At the same time, we need to know that this is a power plant where costs are high. So basically it's about animal power, and it's actually small volumes compared to what we get through, for example. the new management from Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e468	The Prime Minister is predictable. We all agree on this with force lines. When we discussed this in 2005, it was promised that the power line for Middle Norway would be in place in 2010 or 2011. Now the decision on the line comes up in 2011 at the earliest, and then there are appeals. So you could have a solution in place next year, but the government has now trained this for five years. There is nothing to brag about, but it has to be in place – I agree. So it's true that Statnet has applied to change the concession rules. They did that last year, so there's no news either. Last year they could not be allowed to use them based on price, only based on collapse. I don't think 50 pst. the risk of collapse before putting them into service is acceptable. Then the prime minister says it's expensive power. With today's gas price to Europe and with the efficiency of mobile gas power plants, the electricity price is out of 51,8 ø/kWh. When the electricity price in Mid Norway is NOK 2, there is a win to Statnett of SEK 1.50/kWh. Does the Prime Minister think that is unreasonable for Statnett?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e477	What I'm referring to is that Statnet has applied for changes to the terms to start. We're going to deal with that application quickly. But at the same time, I think it's important to realize that the dimension above this is not such that it in itself solves the power problems in central Norway. Mid Norway is now connected to the rest of the Nordic region, to Sweden and to North Norway, and therefore the increased capacity has to be assessed in view of the total capacity in Sweden, Central Norway and North Norway and indeed parts of Denmark. Then it is not that two mobile gas plants have a special impact on the price, if it is possible to measure at all. It is if it is locked up, i.e. bottleneck problems, that these mobile gas power stations are crucial. That's not the problem in central Norway now. Mid-Norway has the same price as in Sweden and North Norway, and then limited increased capacity from mobile gas power plants will have very little effect on prices as long as it is connected to the Nordic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e484	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e488	I don't think you should underestimate the mobile gas power plants. After all, they're equivalent to 50 small power plants. So there are dimensions above it as well. I would like to refer to the introduction of Mr Solvik-Olsen. The Progress Party has proposed the use of housing support and, where appropriate, tax relief to help businesses and families with children in Central Norway. Now the prices are so high that some families with lower incomes actually consider dropping the Christmas preparations. Indirectly, children are now hit by the high electricity prices. But then I record that after the 2011 budget has been adopted, and after the government parties have voted down these proposals from the Progress Party, the Minister of Finance has suggested that the government might consider using housing support and other instruments to help businesses, families and pensioners in Central Norway. Is the Prime Minister also at the level that he believes that the price is now so high that the measures of the Progress Party are assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e497	Housing aid has been used in the past. We've said that we're open to consider using it again. This is what we are now assessing in the light of both the evolution of power prices and the evolution of the current situation. It is vital that we be aware that we live in Norway in a country where there are fluctuating electricity prices, where we are now in large parts of Norway at the same price as in our neighbouring country — not least Middle Norway — and where there is the total supply of power in the Nordic region that decides, for example, on the issue of drugs. prices in Central Norway. Then it's the total supply of power in this whole area that decides. It is then clear that small power plants or small mobile gas plants are important, but they have little impact on the total electricity price in the Nordic region, which is valid in many parts of Norway most of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e504	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e507	The right is concerned with the energy supply to Central Norway and also with the possibility of the region for increased self-production. We are behind the government's commitment to CCS, carbon capture and storage, but as a sewage treatment plant at the gas power plant in Mongstad is becoming both more expensive, because it is being built in a refinery area, and it is being postponed in time, the Right has arranged to move the cleaning project to a completely new gas power plant, usually in an area of the country that has a deficit in its own power generation, such as that. The wave of Elnes in Mid-Norway. This would be a much cheaper solution, and we can get clean-up earlier. Will the Prime Minister assess his moon landing in Mongstad, that the sewage treatment plant in Mongstad can be moved elsewhere in Norway to bring it forward both more fairly and faster than the government has so far provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e514	What the government does is to hold on to a two-step approach, a two-step approach, to the commitment to power and CO2 storage in Mongstad by doing two things: one thing we do is to build a world-leading technology center. We're doing great. It is expected to be completed as planned in 2012. It's about $6 billion. kr and will lead in its kind with regard to the development of carbon capture technology. That's what we're doing in Mongstad. Then, obviously, we've had bigger challenges related to costs and technology at full-scale capture facilities in Mongstad. That is why we have said that we are postponing the investment decision. We expect that this can happen in 2014, but there are also reservations about that time. What I now think will be unfortunate, is if we now completely change these plans. Because it's spent quite a lot of time, quite a lot of effort and a lot of money on developing the full-scale concept at Mongstad. I think we'll go one way if we change those plans now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e526	Then we go to the next main question. It's also going to be today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e529	The hospital reform was to end the discussion between the state and county councils about the responsibility for hospital provision. But the answer game about hospitals has never gone beyond what it does now. Health companies say that they follow instructions from the health minister when they convert the hospital service. The Minister of Health owes a debt to the Stortinget for decisions proposed by the government itself, while Minister Navarsete, in Dagbladet, on 6 December, states that the Stortinget has abdidicated in favour of the governments of health businesses. The Central Party's health policy spokespersons call the government's own policy a mockery of people. And the Prime Minister himself points to health businesses when the population is on torches for what they experience as vital questions. Evaluation of the reform of health enterprises shows that there are considerable variations in the provision of health between regions. The objective of an equivalent health offer has not been achieved across the country. Employees experience little participation in the migration processes, and the distance between those who control and those who actually exercise health care is great, and the responsibility is unclear. On the right, a state acquisition of hospitals was supported, but we did not want regional health companies. We proposed a different governance model at the time, and agreed that the Storting should define the structure and take responsibility for the content of the health service. In 2009, we again proposed more measures to ensure clearer political governance of health businesses, including: through an operational national health plan and the winding-up of regional health businesses – precisely in order to ensure better consistency between political responsibility and political authority. Even the architect behind the reform, former State Secretary Lars Erik Flatø, said in 2004 that it was time to wind up regional health businesses. When will the Prime Minister see that having a national health plan makes it possible to remove this bureaucratic, unnecessary intermediary?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e542	Firstly, I think it is good that the Right and Workers' Party and several other parties felt it was right in 2001 that the State took responsibility for the hospitals. And so although there are still many things that are unsolved, many problems that remain, the overall summary is that that acquisition has given us a significantly better hospital offer, measured in many different ways, but primarily measured by the number of treated patients and the growth in activity, which has been stronger now than it is, for example. was in the 1990s. The hospital economy has also come to a balance – it was not because the county municipalities were responsible for hospitals. Now there has finally become a balance and order in the economy of health businesses and hospitals. And, as I say, the investments are about tripled, and the productivity – that is, what we get back for the money invested – has increased. So that's a lot of good things. But that doesn't mean we're satisfied with everything. That's why I'm open to discussing changes, adjustments. But when someone thinks that we should go back to the old model, where we have 19 county municipalities and one state hospital owner, it is at least a bad model, and I also believe that the Right agrees with us. So is it that even if you abolish the regional health companies, you do not abolish the business model, because there are still about 20 companies responsible for the different hospitals. So I think that's part, what we're going to say, different conceptual usage in this debate that creates a little bit of misunderstanding. We discuss and evaluate the health reform, we are open to discuss and evaluate how it is organised. But I'm very sure that the state will still be the owner, and that we still need companies in the hospital sector. How we're going to organise it, how we're going to allocate responsibility, I'd like to be open to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e551	An excellent opportunity to do so is when the government is now working on a new national health plan. In that case, a proposal for a process to be launched to liquidate regional health businesses may be submitted to an operational national health plan defining the contents of hospitals, so that people actually know what is behind the door, when it is accompanied by the heading ‘Infirmary’ above a door. But the government itself is helping to undermine the governance model that is now. Among other things, we can read in a press release from Buskerud Arbeiderparti on 8 December that there has been a meeting between Health South-East, Health Minister Ström-Erichsen and the management of the Buskerud Arbeiderparti, and that in this forum one decided that the plans for the purchase of the land on Gullaug should be scrapped – which is also a wise decision. However, the Health Business Act explicitly states that the State that owns cannot exercise ownership management in the enterprises outside the business meeting. Is it to have the management of the Buskerud Workers' Party meeting with Health South-East in line with the Business Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e558	Buskerud Arbeiderpartei is an important and significant party in the Norwegian Labour Party, with many prominent members. But they don't play the role of corporate meeting in Health South-East, so there are others who decide whether to use the site at Gullaug to build a new hospital. But of course it has political significance what the Buskerud Workers' Party believes, what other local politicians in Buskerud think, and so the state and the government have the opportunity to intervene in decisions. But then it's through the corporate meeting the state does. The state is not an anonymous person, the state is what politicians want the state to be. The state is fundamentally governed by government and big business, and government and big business can, of course, have opinions and beliefs about hospital structure. The government has it, and it has the Storting. However, what we have been concerned about in the area of health reform was precisely to have clear responsibilities – that the state should be committed to steering the major decisions, that we should have better coordination – and that is what we have done, among other things. through the regional health establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e563	There will be follow-up questions – Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e567	When I hear the Prime Minister here today, I really think he could have needed a midwife, I, who masters the art of redemption, so that he could get a little further in this debate. One of the objectives of the health enterprise reform was also to ensure a more equivalent offer to patients across the country. The evaluation of the health enterprise reform shows that this objective has not been achieved. The same applies to health surveillance reports, which have documented considerable differences in the supply of patients for years. 76 pst. of the patients in Health Central Norway are entitled to health care, while only 45 pst is involved. by patients in North Norway. Children from the east who need mental health protection have to wait for two months for help, while in North Norway they have to wait for three months. And a quarter of those addicts in central Norway don't get treatment in time, which is twice as many as in the East. Does the Prime Minister agree that health provision should not depend on which health region you live in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e576	I agree that we should have equivalent and good health services across the country and that hospital services should be equivalent. This is also one of the reasons why Stortinget has asked for it, for example. a review of the food supply – precisely to ensure good quality and equivalent supply across the country. And I'm absolutely sure that we get a more equivalent offer when we have one owner of the hospitals, and when we have regional health companies that can coordinate and organise the offer in the best possible way, than we had when we had 19 county municipalities and the state as 20 owners of total Norwegian hospitals. So it's like we still have to do a lot to balance the differences in health services – I've said this earlier today, but it's a little about getting the same questions, so it's easy to get the same answers, fortunately. We're going to do that in several ways, by getting better worksharing between hospitals, we're going to do it by expanding the hospital framework so that we can invest more and treat more patients, but also by using free hospital choice, which is a way to balance the differences in when people can choose hospitals in different places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e583	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e586	In fact, I see the answer from the Prime Minister as being open to looking at the regional health companies – as many parties, including the Progress Party, have thought for a long time – that has been one of the contributions that we have today to have more health bureaucrats in Norway than we have doctors employed in Norwegian hospitals. So it's high time to do something about it. But I want to grasp something the Prime Minister has also responded to what he calls functional division. It means in good Norwegian that the sign is maintained on the outside of the wall, that it says ‘Local Hospital’, but inside the local hospital you no longer drive what people expect; you operate some knees, etc. In fact, if you have a heart attack or are in a car accident, you expect to receive help from the hospital in which it says ‘Local Hospital’. The representative, Kjersti Toppe, who is a Health Policy spokesman for the Center Party, has now said that it is high time that we defined what a local hospital should contain and that there should be a minimum of emergency functions. Does the Prime Minister agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e595	What a local hospital offers, will and should vary greatly between different local hospitals, precisely because we need work sharing between different local hospitals. That's why I'm a little afraid to set square demands. I just think it could weaken the offer, because there should and must be a work sharing between different local hospitals. It's because we're getting more and more specialization, and more and more specialization in different emergency functions. What's an emergency reception varies a lot. We know that for very many acute disorders, there are few hospitals that can offer completely specialised services. That's why we need a work division, and so it can often be that the best thing is not to get to the nearest hospital, but to the best hospital for your acute illness. That's why I'm afraid we're going to have standardised requirements for exactly what a local hospital should be, simply because there's got to be differences in the offers to ensure a good quality offer for everyone wherever they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e602	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e605	I'm glad the Prime Minister spends his time reading seven-year-old quotes from a former Minister of Health from the Christian People's Party. I have read through the interview in Romsdal's Budstikke, and I stand by every word I said at the time, because the point is the same today as it was then. At that time it was priority No. 1 to get built St. Olav's Hospital. All the money went there, and Health Middle Norway had to have more money than it was in their frame to realize St. Olav's Hospital. That was the job then. We spent more money in the framework of building St. Olav's hospital. Now that job is done. Now the next step is for More and Romesdal, and they also need more money to implement the plans that are now there and that had to be pushed on because there were other things that had to be done only seven years ago. I think it is very good that today's news is that the Prime Minister is opening up a discussion about the future of regional health companies. We see that as a positive. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can also plan a national hospital plan, so that we can have overall political control over this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e614	When I referred to the Commandments of Romsdal, it was really in two contexts. One was that I was asked about Public Private Cooperation, and then I showed that the Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätt in Romsdal's Budstik rejected it by saying that the calculation is not different if the money comes from private or from the state. The second is a look-up on 22 April 2004, where the Høybräten refuses to give any extra money, because he is concerned that the hospital in Molde is to be financed within the investment framework of the hospitals, and postpones it until 2014. There were reactions in Molde at that time. And that's not strange, because of course you want hospitals as soon as possible. We are concerned with the same system, namely that we have to fund hospitals in the same way across the country, stick to the rules of the game. It is true that some of the hospitals that started under the old regime were given special funding. It was a transitional arrangement. Since then, Stortinget has agreed that we should finance investments within the hospital framework. We've done that, and we should stick to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e621	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e624	The left has said over a long time that we do not necessarily believe that majority governments are a scoop for democracy. Here today we have seen a significant arrogance with both our own population, I believe, and our own promises. Last week we saw an enormous commitment from Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister of Justice to another case, while the Minister of Health was sent to the lion's den in Molde yesterday. I wonder if we can see an equal degree of commitment from so many government councils to the implementation of hospital policy – whether the Prime Minister could have intended to travel to More and Romesdal and meet people and tell what he meant in this area – or whether there are some issues that are so important that you roll out two councils and the Prime Minister together, like the last week, while other matters get the Minister of Health fixed against demonstrators alone. The Prime Minister had a helicopter in the election campaign. Will he use it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e633	I have also traveled a lot around and visited Norwegian hospitals. I participated in the consultation with the National Health Level, the follow-up to the Cooperation Reform with the Minister for Health, and I am busy working a lot on health policy, because there are so many important issues. That is also why I participated in the launch of the major health documents we have now sent to the hearing, such as: is about hospitals and implementing the Interaction Reform. Just when and where I'm going to travel around the country, we get back to, but I'm absolutely sure I'm going to continue traveling around the country and meet engaged people, because this government is busy that we're going to have good health services across the country. We are concerned that we should increase the hospital framework, so that we can invest even more in hospitals. But we are committed to having the same rules of play and to following the rules that Stortinget has adopted, in terms of when we're going to invest in which hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e641	So the oral question procedure is over. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2–5 is dealt with together – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e690	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the 45 minutes working party, the 30 minutes progress party, the 20 minutes right, the 10 minutes Socialist Left Party, the 10 minutes centre party, the 5 minutes Christian People's Party and the 5 minutes left. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines in response to contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines in response to contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e699	Today, the world’s population is about 6.9 billion people. In August 2008, the World Bank estimated that 1.4 billion people live in poverty. Every year the ILO presents a report on unemployment in the world, and the report estimates that the number of registered unemployed persons is 220 million in 2009. This means an increase of almost 42 million people from 2007. Most of this increase occurred in 2009. The proportion of employed people in Norway between 16 and 64 years of age has increased under red-green rule, as opposed to what we see around the world. In 2004, the proportion employed was 75 pst, and in 2009 was 76.5 pst. This percentage tells us that Norway has a large proportion of its working-age population at work. In comparison, Sweden has 72 pst., USA 67 pst. and EU 66 pst. We have the highest employment rate and the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. 253,900 new jobs have been created in Norway from 2004 to 2009, despite a decline in 2009 due to the financial crisis. 190 000 of the new jobs are in the private sector. This means that about three out of four new jobs have come in the private sector. Ensuring high employment and low unemployment are particularly important and must be a key objective of industrial policy. There should be no deep discussion of ranking conditions, one should not understand in detail the degree of innovation, but one should be able to recognise these simple facts in order to understand that Norway is in a particularly favourable position. Business in Norway represents a diversity, where we have nearly 500,000 enterprises. This is a small picture of the diverse business world in Norway — a diversity composed of the large industrial locomotives, complemented by the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the heart of this diversity is the human beings and the knowledge that humans possess. Workers and businesses create enormous values for the country. It's precisely because we recognize that our most important and deciduous share of national wealth is placed in people's heads and hands. It is widely hoped that everyone in Norway will have good basic knowledge, good vocational training, and that many will also go through a higher education cycle. It is of enormous importance. It benefits the value creation, it benefits the businesses, and it benefits the whole community. So in this diversity, over 250,000 new jobs are created, and we have an employment rate of 76.5 pst. Nor is it irrelevant that we recognize once again the principle that the values contained in our vast natural resources are the property of the people. Developing, processing and selling natural resources through that principle has made us rich. One of the companies that has developed on the basis of Norwegian natural resources is Statkraft. State power is one of the most important and valuable companies owned by the State. Statkraft manages significant Norwegian hydropower resources, which will benefit the entire community. State power has, and has, an expansionary growth strategy and has positioned itself well in Europe in the field of renewable energy. The growth potential of the renewable energy company is high and there is now an important open time window that needs to be used. When the Storting today adopts an equity deposit to State power of 14 billion. kr, while a dividend of about 80 p.m. is taken into account, the company is judged for further growth, which in turn will contribute to future values for the company and society. In other words, it is an extremely important underpinning of a state-owned company with significant growth potential. I would like to stress that there are significant expectations for the company. This applies, of course, to the company’s international potential, but not least to investment in new power generation in Norway. And expectations have not been reduced since the government has now gained clarity with Sweden about a common green certification market from 2012. It is also expected that State power as a company will contribute strongly to research and good national innovation solutions. There is one last expectation that I particularly want to get into, and I need to put two lines below the following: State power as the largest hydroelectric power producer in Norway has to take a special responsibility for developing good price models and solutions for long-term power contracts to industry. This is a matter of particular importance and topicality and is historically a direct reason why Norway is a major hydroelectric power producer. I expect the company to contribute to meeting these expectations. The welfare country depends on good value creation and a strong export-oriented sector that contributes to large export revenues. It is of great importance that we constantly have this relationship to political assessment. As a nation and through the business world in Norway, we need to attract investment for future value creation. This is generally particularly important, but especially in the competitive export sector, which is facing tougher and tougher global competition. Nutrition policy must respond to this need. Part of this is a responsible economic policy, and this is where the big political divisions actually lie. In the context of the financial crisis, major instruments were put in place at the right time. That through the 2011 budget, we are reducing some of the measures taken to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis is correct and necessary. It is about financial accountability, while at the same time helping to get back to a normal situation, which in turn suggests that one can turn up the activity when any need arises. We propose to rigge down something around Innovation Norway, but at the same time we grant money to be able to deal with this situation in a good way. At the same time, in the current year, we have provided a significant yard package to underpin the activities of the maritime sector. In total: this is an active and dynamic enterprise policy. The debate on simplification has been a major one in this Chamber during the autumn. We want – and I stress – to remove unnecessary work and free resources in business to strengthen competitiveness. There are several examples that I could draw out, but I would stress that through the simplification work, we will free up time for the companies of value-creating activities. I guess the time period we're in now will describe history as the time of simplification for businesses. It's a moral obligation to use the resources that we've accumulated. Hunger affects nearly 1 billion people daily. By 2050, we can expect 9 billion people to live on what we can produce from food. If we're going to do the task of feeding 9 billion people without anyone having to get hungry, we also have to make demands on ourselves. We need to build on the goals that are now established to maintain a living agriculture with a varied structure of use across the country. We need to further develop the opportunities and attractiveness of the industry, including: by further developing income and welfare policies. We must maintain a strong import protection for domestic production. We cannot, as the Progress Party and the Right propose in the budget, remove much of the support for this moral task. We cannot remove import protection, and we cannot make dramatic structuralisations, because then we leave our moral obligations. A clean sea and large fishing resources have given us yet another important industry in Norway. Seafood is a significant industry for Norway. In 2009, seafood was exported from Norway to a value of almost 45 billion. kr. This year it seems that the industry will export for even greater values. Marine nutrition is of great importance for employment and housing in districts. Fishing resources are part of the Community's resources and must be managed as a starting point. Regulations shall result in sustainable management and allocation of resources benefiting the whole country. We have the possibilities, we have the resources, and we have the knowledge. We have a good starting point for further development of Norwegian business. The budget we are adopting today is good. It is adapted to the situation, and it will facilitate large value creation even next year. It is a budget that will continue to facilitate high employment and low unemployment in Norway. I would like to say in the end that when you look around the world with both legs planted on Norwegian soil, it must be allowed to feel a certain degree of enthusiasm for the prospects of a diverse Norwegian business life. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed at the premises of the representatives, which deals with the power of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to the effect that the government budget for 2011 may charge the purchase of shares in Norsk Hydro ASA, which was part of the assumption that Norsk Hydro was engaged in Vale.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e741	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e746	It is quite obvious that the government parties are well pleased with the government's budget proposals, because no room has been found to change on a single crown in the committee – that is, the fraction that has been sitting and working on this budget this whole autumn – despite the input we have received from a number of environments. In this respect, I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee a question. It is a fact that, in particular, the seed funds, those that are fully involved in the start-up phase to run new businesses, are running out of capital, and it is now said that it is not possible to introduce new enterprises into the systems and programmes that you have. My question to the representative of Aasland is this: do you not take these signals seriously, or have you simply failed to assess it, so that you do not now have access to new seed capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e753	First of all, I would like to stress what the representative, Mr Nesvik, says: I am very pleased with the state budget that has been presented. I am very pleased with the budget which deals with the three economic areas we are dealing with today. It is important that 253,900 new jobs have been created in Norway during the period 2004-2009. There is evidence that there are opportunities — great opportunities — in Norwegian business. Then we've also recorded what's being said about seed capital. That's why we have also said very clearly in the budget and in our position that the seed capital and capital of business are something we're concerned about, and we're following the situation very closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e760	The Chairman of the Committee spent a lot of time talking about Statkraft in his article. That, I think, was an entirely correct assessment by the committee chairman. It's, as he himself described in the highest possible terms -- I was about to say high-ranking terms -- one of our most important companies. That might be the most important thing. Then I would like to ask the representative of Aasland how he assesses the treatment that the capital need and the new strategy in State Power have been subjected to over nearly two years, when a government asked for feedback on how to finance the new strategy, without hearing any of the world's things. Is there anything that corresponds to the description that the representative of Aasland has now given of the importance of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e767	I fully agree with Mr Fletten that Statkraft is a very important company. And that's a very important thing we do today, when one capitalizes the company so that they can implement a focused strategy. I think it has been absolutely necessary that one has taken the process and the round that has now been between the owner and the board, and sees it as quite natural when a company addresses the owner about such a large amount as this is added up to. Then I fully agree that our approach to the capital injection to Statkraft is to add capital to the company, but at the same time limit some of the withdrawal in the future, so that the company can continue to evolve in a positive direction. I record that the Right has a slightly different approach to how to recapitalise the company, and likewise that they will continue to have a somewhat higher yield than the government party adds. Then it could be challenging to hear what the representative might later think about Statkraft, because we also have an additional dimension that it is a very important political tool for the state of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e774	The representative of Aasland was concerned that the world's population is growing, and he focused on work and employment. It's important. The world’s population should also have food, so food security is also important in Norway. 3 pst. of the area is cultivated land here in the country, and we see that the food soil goes to, among other things. construction of roads and commercial buildings. Then my question is to the representative: should the administration of soil protection be moved from the municipalities and returned to the state, so that pressure on local politicians is released when good projects are to be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e781	The most important thing in the case of Norwegian agricultural production in the future is that one ensures at least that Norwegian agricultural enterprises have good framework conditions, that they have a system of incomes and opportunities for development in line with what the government proposes and has been involved in through agricultural operations in recent years and, to this extent, has also laid the foundations for 2011. In terms of soil protection in concrete terms, I will not take a stand on it and conclude now. I am concerned that one can maintain as much as possible a large area within the 3 pst. That's right. 3 pst. is important to try to maintain. Whether it should be done through government control or local self-government, we'd better get back to it. I think the starting point is that we have to focus on the importance of maintaining valuable food soils in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e792	Initially, I will only be allowed to deal with the proposals that the Progress Party either stands alone or together with others on all of these matters that we now have to deal with, so that it is done and you will not forget it at a later stage. Then to the debate itself. In the context of the government’s presentation of its budget for 2011, the comments from both the opposition, from industry itself, from the media and from others were that this was a budget at regular intervals, and not least that it was an oil-smurred budget. There were great hopes that the government would fulfill some of the many and relatively costly promises from the 2009 election campaign in this budget, since the current year’s budget was unable to meet and take the big steps that had been promised. It must be noted that the coverage of the great promises was also lacking this time, of course for various reasons. However, what did not go wrong this time was that one is adding up to a growth in the public sector in 2011. At least there is a certain sign of the harvest that the government is bringing forward a growth in the public sector. The Economic and Social Committee has the primary responsibility for industrial policy in Norway, and it is a relatively large area. The problem is that the instrument is largely located elsewhere, at least if one ignores what is under the responsibility of the State of Innovation in Norway and what is happening under the agricultural discussions. This harvest has been marked by a number of issues and discussions on how to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, as well as on how to make it easier to start enterprises, but not least on how to make sure that those engaged in this type of activity will be allowed to spend their time creating jobs and values instead of having to spend more and more time on forms and reports, and then to be rewarded with very high taxes. An overall opposition has repeatedly proposed improvements, but the red-green parties have been able to vote against all the proposals, despite the fact that many of the proposals are very good and interesting. I thought for a long time that one in the political system as well as in normal life is in favour of what you are for, and is in favour of what you are against. But, as I said, this has not happened in these cases. Such an example is the proposal of the Progress Party to remove the audit obligation for enterprises with a turnover of less than 5 million. kr, currently under consideration in the Financial Committee. I look forward to just this treatment, all the while the Minister of Industry has also put in place a work to look at what has to do with the audit obligations of small businesses. As I said earlier, the small and medium-sized enterprises are the very bearer of the Norwegian economy. There is a lot of value creation going on here, and – not least – there are many jobs in the whole country. The Progress Party does not conceal that both the property tax and the inheritance tax are a significant challenge in this respect. When a family-owned enterprise has to pay extraordinary dividends to its owners because they have to afford to pay their property tax, preferably in an enterprise that has a relatively laborious economy initially, this actually contributes to jeopardising jobs. Instead, they should take the challenges of these companies seriously and secure jobs. I now want to look at a number of individual areas of industrial policy in general. I would also like to address a number of fisheries policy challenges. As regards agriculture and the many challenges facing it, with an out-of-date regulatory and support-based agricultural policy, others in the Progress Party will take that part of this debate into account. I have mentioned earlier the issues related to the fact that the Enterprise Committee, and not least the Ministry of Industry and Trade, is responsible for industrial policy, while the very tool to be used is largely the responsibility of others. This presents major challenges, not least when we see that it is precisely the business policy we are going to pursue, that is to finance what we are talking about as the common good and the well-being of society. That is also significant what we have just discussed here today. Earlier this morning, when we were going to discuss in the Questionnaire, they had up, among other things. Hospitals out in the districts were a relatively full press release. Then we are going to discuss the way in which we are going to finance these well-being goods, namely business policy. Even before the committee leader got to the pulpit, the press release was empty. I had hoped that the media could also show a greater commitment to discussion about just what's going on with business policy. In the future, we'll see if this is followed up when you sit and watch this debate on TV. Let's at least hope that something comes out of it. I would first like to say a little bit about Innovation Norway. In this context, the Progress Party finds reason to ask questions about how the funds for Innovation Norway are distributed. Do you get out of these funds what you actually want to get out of them? Has support systems been designed in such a way that it is the very idea you reward when you are going to further develop, and not only what is related to where the idea comes from, in the form of the residence address of the person who has the idea, or where you want to start the business? I think the time has come to evaluate Innovation Norway – with which the Council of State has started work, and with which it has been said that you will come to Stortinget – and look forward to getting a case, because I think it's time that it's the very idea we have to put in the high seat, and not where the idea comes from. In my question to the chairman of the committee, I was concerned with what has to do with seed capital and access to seed capital. This is becoming a major problem, because there are difficulties in getting new businesses and new ideas under the seed capital scheme. All funds are then exhausted, and as I said, there are no new ideas that come under this scheme, because there is no capacity or economy to follow up more. It's time we assumed that we needed more investment funds. Instead of the State sitting and giving clear guidance as to what the money will be used for, several new professional funds should be set up according to the Argentum model. In addition, it is necessary to improve the tax FUNN scheme so that businesses can manage their own R & D activities even more according to what they actually need. Then you also have to go in and look at the hourly price underlying the current R & D system, because it is too low. Now, it is right under another committee, but it clearly shows that there are a number of different government councils and committees that need to play a role in order to implement what is involved in industrial policy. Innovation Furniture have also been a recurring theme from this pulpit. Several government councils, not least former Minister of Industry Sylvia Brustad, traveled around the last election campaign and promised significant funds for Innovation Furniture. After that time, the government has jumped from its promises and just referred to Innovation Norway, and that instead of granting the necessary until this project has shut down approx. One million. SEK to Innovation Norway for the current year. The demand is between 15 and 20 million. kr. in order to be able to proceed with this. The Progress Party believes that this is a good project, and that it should have been funded. I also hope that the Council of State – there is a proposal for treatment today – through its channels and letters of order to Innovation Norway will ensure that the Innovation Furniture will be added at least 20 million. kr, so that they can carry out their projects. It has been an explicit objective that from the Norwegian side you want to be a leading shipping nation. I have to say that the Council of State has done a good job putting this on the agenda. But it is clear that if we are to be able to maintain our position and ensure that we have Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian boats, it is also important that the net pay system is competitive. The current net pay scheme we call it, which is actually a reimbursement scheme with a reimbursement amount of NOK 198 000, has not been amended and regulated since its introduction. In this regard, it is quite natural that I ask the Council of State to ensure that a work is just started to regulate this amount, so that it is in line with the reality we have to deal with. Then these are NOK 198 000 too small. As I said, the amount has not been regulated, and it is time for it to be regulated. This is incredible – even if you thought you had a very good time, speaking time disappears very quickly. That's why I'm going to move on to another theme that's very close to my heart. It concerns fisheries matters. The Council of State has put forward a budget which addresses the issues we are facing. But it is obvious that we have major challenges in the fisheries sector. In the farming industry, not only is the economic situation the problem, because there are good times, but there are of course problems related to salmon, escape and also the opinion of governments, on the part of government councils, of different opinions. Not least you have directors of different directorates who express themselves differently. There's a lot of reason to ask the question: what really is the government's policy? I really hope it will be the Minister for Fisheries who will take the lead, because at least the Minister for Fisheries has an approach to this issue that is very positive. That's the way we have to go. We all have to assume that we need to find solutions to the loop situation. We also have to assume that we have to find solutions to what is involved in escape from farming facilities. You don't get to go in a clinic with each other. The solutions are found when the industry joins with the governing directorates and departments and tries to find ways to do this. Common debugging is something you've had as an experiment, and you've definitely got to keep going. Furthermore, it is obvious that, in the case of the discussion on closed installations or not, it is soon necessary to start discussing from a practical and realistic point of view. With today's technology, it is not possible to combine Norwegian farming in dense and closed mercenaries. Furthermore, it is quite clear that in the wildfish area, the vast majority of Norwegian populations are now in good standing. Good fisheries management has been successful – we have to take that with us. But the situation is also such that the discussion now concerns whether we are able to put in place good enough agreements with the countries to which we are going to relate. It's been about that 90 pst. of the fish stocks on which Norway fishes, we manage together with other countries. It is important to also do a good job both internationally and nationally in relation to the challenges facing them. Of course, it's in the unregulated illegal fishing that exists. We've come a long way with Russia, but unfortunately we've seen that it's not just foreign boats that are a problem. We also have cases with our own that also have to be followed up. In this context, it is precisely important to ensure that both traceability and not least the control measures that we are to have, it is important to follow up properly. Personally, I think there has also been too little focus on the fact that the situation in the sea, i.e. what is related to feed in the sea, can be a contributing factor in the problem of the wild species, and not just the lice situation. We have a lot of challenges. The state budget is, as I have said, a budget on the level, and I believe that in a number of of these areas you get to the goal, but I would of course wish you had been a little more offensive in some fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e843	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e846	In fact, the idea of continuing the leadership grant to ensure good coastal reception structures comes from this government. The contribution to fish management and support for reception stations is important in a continuing difficult situation following the financial crisis — for some districts. So why is the Progress Party against this? Is it because the Progress Party does not want a decentralised reception structure? In addition, it is natural that the Progress Party follows up what they point out in one of their comments, that they want to liberalise the Norwegian fishing industry – yes, it is considered to be too slow. How does the Progress Party feel that the reception structure will look along the coast, and how will the fisheries policy evolve?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e853	The problem with the current system of state-funded or grant-based reception stations is that benefits are given to one part of the country versus other places. It is very unfortunate because this has now been a while, and it seems to persist. This is then put in almost as a subsidy element. The fact is, if you go in and look at both the prices and the way fish are traded, you have already regulated this in such a way that you should also look at the financing of this. And as we write in our notes, we don't feel it's right that it's the state that's going to go in and subsidize this. It must be taken through the ordinary sales apparatus, either through the raw fish layer or through purchasers of the fish. That's actually where the cost is going to be added. We say you have to liberalize. It's obviously something that's wrong when you even live in a generation shift in the fishing industry in order to be able to participate in and run your own business. Yes, it's hunting time to do something!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e860	I hear that the representative of the Progress Party reasonably agrees that the budget presented by the government is good. But I also noticed that the representative has one sentence on agricultural policy, and that is a criticism of what the government is doing. Then I have seen that the Progress Party is concerned with the supervision of animal welfare – yes, even increased supervision is important. I can only confirm that the local representatives of the Advance Party in our state are too exactly what they call even me and say that it is important to increase the appropriations for the Food Authority. The Progress Party cuts in its alternative budget 35 million. kr on the Danish Food Authority. This applies to the right fee, but it weakens the income and, of course, makes it more difficult to go out and do the job that the Progress Party is also engaged in. Does the representative, Mr Nesvik, think this is a matter of concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e867	Yes, it really is in touch! First, I said it was a regular budget, I didn't say the budget was good. I said we had more challenges. I think it's a little bit important to separate the two things. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, there is clearly room for improvement, and there is a clear need for it. The background is, among other things, that we have just received a doctoral thesis from Ivar Gaasland, which indicates that there are then great opportunities for those degrees, and that there is also a time to do something in the agricultural sector. What the Progress Party wants is to release the farmer to produce more in line with the market demand, and not least to rule the earth better – at its own keel – than what you are doing today. As far as the Food Authority is concerned, it is clear that there is considerable room for improvement, including in terms of funding the Food Authority. It can't be that you just keep putting money into a system without also making greater demands on the way you work. The potential for improvement is high, and we must also ensure that control is maintained – it is stated in our remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e878	The representative, Nesvik, dealt with several important issues. I want to ask some questions about agriculture. The progress party wants to cut $7.7 billion. kr in the agricultural agreement. It will have dramatic consequences for agriculture. At the same time, they indicate that the country will continue to provide financial support to agriculture, but that this will be more targeted and less bureaucratic. I would therefore like to ask Mr Nesvik if he can elaborate on what the Progress Party will target more, and how they will make agriculture less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e885	Firstly, we want to remove some of the laws and regulations, including: in the case of the winding-up of concession limits granted under the Animal Concession Act and also in the case of the concession in the case of the acquisition of immovable property. We want a red tape of the agricultural industry’s framework conditions. We will ensure that restrictions and quota ceilings for dairy co-operatives are abolished. There are a number of such things that are now bureaucratic in agriculture. It makes no sense that we have a system that even goes in and defines how many farmers are allowed to join together in a cooperative venture. If you're one over, you get no, it doesn't work, because now the state thinks there's plenty of people who've joined each other. It's obvious that there's a lot of things to do. As far as agricultural transfers are concerned, the Progress Party has proposed the removal of the system of agricultural agreements in the agricultural negotiations. Instead, this shall follow the ordinary budgetary negotiations. Furthermore, we will also remove some of the screening mechanisms, so that Norwegian consumers can have access to more reasonable food.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e892	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e895	I agree with the chairman of the committee that much is good in Norwegian business. But in a reply we heard from the representative Lillian Hansen that parts of the business world are still in a difficult situation, such as: fisheries. Thus, after the financial crisis, some industries remain uncertain. It is in this way that the value creation of the country's business is failing, and the foundation of the welfare society is also failing. Even in Norway, with our solid economy and good regulation, it was a short period after the crisis, and during the crisis, that fear and nervousness in the markets could have made everything worse. I would like to stress that the measures that were taken at the time were fully agreed by all political parties in the Stortinget. The attempts to monopolize ownership that Norway got out of that situation well, I think both now, and in a longer reflection, will fall on its own unfairness. This disagreement was about the strength of the measures and the areas in which they were to be implemented, and perhaps their duration. After all, the results also show that there was not a full impact of all measures, nor can it be. But the crisis taught us something, namely that it is possible to stimulate the economy in times of recession and get results. Of course, it is also possible to stimulate it in other situations. That's what's now the situation when we make the 2011 budget. We have to raise our eyes, and then we have to see the challenges ahead of us in the years ahead. In the future, economic policy will be crucial when the revenue from the petroleum sector will gradually fall and the cost of pensions, health and care for the elderly will increase. Therefore, our security and future well-being depends on our ability to create value, to create jobs and new jobs. Therefore, offensive industrial policies are also offensive social policies and offensive welfare policies. These elements are insolublely linked. We can't afford to be well-being, we can only afford to be well-being when we've created the financial basis for doing this through value creation. That's what's the challenge with the long lines. But even this one must eventually go on. Our continued well-being requires that value creation become more focused, even when there is no crisis. We need to ensure that people are stimulated to create businesses, to keep and expand existing businesses and not least to participate in the labour market rather than be passive. We need to put in place significant measures, including: on the tax side, to make it profitable to take on a job and not least to do business, so as to create these jobs. Tax costs are specific to Norway; they are higher than in many comparable countries. The competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises is also still weakened by our level of costs. We have a number of proposals in our 2011 budget that will be positive for this, both for the coming year and in the years to come, and that is what is important. We also have to make sure that we have a well-trained population. We need to increase the knowledge of the population. This is why we are increasing funding for research, education and quality in schools, but we are also investing much more strongly in transport, especially road construction in our long-term country. Then it is that the innovation capacity and pace of Norwegian business are declining. Innovation Norway is a central element in this context. Now there is an evaluation at the department, and it has to go to Stortinget, so that we have a broad debate on the use of instruments. The National Audit Service has pointed out that there is a lot of work to do here. Most of Norway’s value creation takes place in small and medium-sized enterprises. Small businesses are in many ways the very lifeblood of Norwegian business. When the story of simplification is written, I don't think it will be as the representative of Aasland described it in rather lyrical terms, that it's about the story of the "time of simplification". I think most companies will disagree very much with that. A number of recent proposals on this simplification have been made. It is no surprise that they have not been adopted. Nor should it be any surprise that at least we, for our part and certainly the rest of the opposition, will continue with proposals and announcements of not least progress, until something happens. I think we have all the small businesses in the country and their employees in the back of that case. There is no heavy should, but there is a significant thrust, because it is the creation of value that provides the basis for well-being. Therefore, good conditions must be provided for, not least, small enterprises. Employee participation may be a small matter, but it is very important for small businesses. It increases loyalty and motivation. This year we are proposing improvements in this area as in previous years. I'm eagerly waiting for the Soria Moria II statement, which also has objectives on this, to meet us. It is good examples that this works well in business. Then to the larger businesses. The notified ownership message must ensure once again that a professional ownership is established by the State. It is not lacking that it has not been adopted by the Storting before, but there are too many examples that this has not happened, and there are too many episodes under changing business ministers where the professional has had to give way to more random political decisions. The funding of Statkraft's new strategy is a good example, for the only reaction within almost two years of the Board's request was the removal of the Chairman of the Board and parts of the Board, but without responding to the enquiry itself. Then, at the last moment, you've come to the Stortinget with an additional proposition. That's good, and it's been treated quickly and well in the nutrition committee. But also in that case, the treatment is still characterised by impurity, where dividends are brought back and forth – I should not say as in a sausage stall, but it is close to getting that kind of association. We strongly support the fact that State power is invested in capital, but we believe that it could have been done in other ways in the time that has now passed. You could arrange your assets and assets in a completely different way. I want to spend some time on agriculture. It's important, and it's going to be very important in the coming year, considering the agricultural notification. The review by the National Audit Office has shown, so far as it is not disputed, that the objectives are weak, that there are too many objectives, that there are conflicts between the objectives, that there are little precise instruments, that they are not effective enough – and perhaps also for bureaucratic ones. Then I have brought most – in short, a cruel ointment. The debate after on income levels and structures in agriculture has shown considerable uncertainty as to what are the existing facts about this industry, where the state is such a strong player. Obviously, public instruments have a strong impact on structures and revenues. Then we have to have the right knowledge, so that the policy comes first, and does not come after development. Do we get the increase in income where it is most efficient in production? Many of the income statistics indicate that the economic instruments are not accurate enough. That is why we believe in our agricultural policy that more needs to be done in particular. grant schemes that can take care of both full-time and combined farmers and adapt the distribution in a way that can become more cost-effective in the economy. It's not just the Right who means it, this is what you mean far into agriculture. The investment drought observed, which has affected Norwegian agriculture in the future, shows that the uncertainty has also reached down to those who are working on it. Investment capacity needs to be increased. In our budget, we have a good package for agriculture of about 500 million. kr on an annual basis, with tax changes, incentives, depreciation and other measures. The peasants have asked for more than ten years an investment need of 13 billion. kr. Our proposal from a decade's perspective, in addition to our proposals to remove the wealth tax, which alone amounts to 1.3 billion. kr in the year of agriculture, would actually give the Farmer 50 pst. more than they ask, 18 billion. SEK in increased investment capacity of 10 years. It's a number that's a numerator. Overtime, I allow myself to address the suggestions in the settings that we have alone or together with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e939	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e944	If I do not agree with everything the fleet representative said, at least I agree with something, not least the fact that the creation of value is very important for the welfare of society. And then I can actually replicate a little: despite the fact that we have total taxes and taxes as a share of the value creation in Norway much lower than in both Denmark and Sweden, we have a very high level of well-being, well above the level in both Denmark and Sweden. We also record that there may be some reason why industry is doing well in Norway. The representative was concerned about stimulating business. So am I. Then I'm a little surprised that right this time maybe chooses to ignore a whole, when they cut close to 2 billion. kr, or well over 1.5 billion. kr, in the grant to the county councils for regional development. I recognize that they're adding in some other places, but in sum, there's a lot less in terms of boosting business. My question to the representative Fleet is: Is he satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e951	I'm very satisfied with that. I am even of those in the Right who have proposed this for the financial fraction, because we're filling in with, as the representative points out, a lot of other funds very many other places. In addition, of course, the tax relief we propose will also stimulate businesses. After all, industry does not consist primarily of subsidies exceeding the State budget. It is primarily about what businesses themselves can do, how much they themselves can keep from what they serve, which increases their investment capacity – just what I talked about in relation to agriculture. It's the most important thing. With regard to the economy out in District Norway, not least in the county municipalities, it is my experience that mainly the county municipalities have a relatively good economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e960	Right has proposed, in its note on the capitalisation of State power, to take the full sum to be contributed to State power as capital contributions. Now it's like Statkraft is a whole company. Shooting capital under the line of a wholly owned company while taking dividends over the line is usually seen as a way of circumventing the rule of action. Does the representative Fleet think that it is good budgetary practice to put capital under the line of a whole company in the same year as a take-out of dividends over the line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e967	What I think is an unfortunate practice in this case is that you do it so little predictable for an enterprise to introduce principles that you first take dividends, then you bring the dividends back. In addition, in this matter of State Power, we also say something about the future dividends. With my relatively modest background from business, I have at least learned so much that saying something about dividends that are far ahead of time is quite unusual. It's okay to deal with the result of the year before doing anything about the dividends that are coming. So yes, I think we've dealt with this in as neat a way as the government and the positioning parties have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e974	I had hoped that I would once avoid taking a line on the Right in the agricultural policy, but unfortunately it is not useful. The frequency of the Right Party is so high that it's time for professionals to tell us about the economic reality. The concept of ‘realistic’ has now been introduced to the right — there must be realism in the forthcoming agricultural notification and it is realistic to reduce revenue by 1,970 million. kr. The right's own figures in the statement refer to a remuneration for work and equity per year of NOK 163 900. With 5 pst. The return on the asset is 1 million. NOK in equity, we're down to NOK 113 900. Divided by 1,865 hours, it's $64 per hour. If we take away the right-hand deduction, we get to $40. So the right here performs to talk about having ‘a forward-looking and profitable agricultural industry across the country’ and increasing investment. Why should a youth invest in agriculture when income is like that? Is that realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e983	The President will point out that the representative Lundtigen certainly has good enough arguments so that he can avoid using the expression 'frequence' about another party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e986	At least at my own expense, let me say that I don't see our policy as rude. I think some of the problem in this discussion about agricultural policy and the economy is that we have fundamentalists who believe that any alternative, any other thinking, is completely indisposed and must not occur. But I have heard the representative Lundtigen in other contexts, where he also stands and wonders where we are and where we are going. It is possible to present estimates of agricultural inputs that have been broken down at both hourly and minute levels. But I ask the representative Lundtegen to also look at our proposals for increased investment capacity in agriculture. 18 B.C.E. NOK over 10 years – there will be a few dollars in the hour as well!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e995	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e998	In a budgetary discussion like this, there may be grounds for lifting a little attention and looking at the individual budget lines in a wider perspective. It is not for a southerner to boast, nor for a westerner either, but when the opposition is constantly trying to discuss the consequences of economic policy, it is necessary to recall some key issues in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian business community. Norway is the country that has been most affected by the financial crisis, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Norway has also made good use of some competitiveness indices. The reputable institution IMD places Norway in ninth place. There are three better places than last year. Only one European country operates in Norway on this index, which measures different aspects of competitiveness. Other indices can give other results, so we should be careful about overinterpreting such indicators whether they go up or down. However, these examples show that there is no real reason for any black paint of the situation in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, there is good reason to be offensive in order to meet new challenges. We meet the challenges best by building on the strengths of the Norwegian model. The right-hand side tends to overfocus on taxation and to produce the welfare state as a cling to the foot of value creation and industrial development. But it's turning the case complex completely on the head. It is the Norwegian welfare model that has laid the foundation for the transition potential and the innovation potential that we have here in the country. I could talk a long time about this, but I'll limit myself to some points: Security frees time and energy to invest in business. Full babysitting makes it possible for everyone to participate. We have a high level of professional participation in Norway. High competence at all levels of organisations is one of the hallmarks of Norwegian business and is a competitive advantage. Good environmental policy is good business policy. All of this is part of a welfare state that is important to business, and not a cling around the foot of it. Recently, the red-green government has provided a strong boost for renewable energy, and thus also for Norwegian industry. The government proposes to strengthen the state capital by 14 billion. kr. This makes it possible for the company to invest 82 billion. kr in environmentally friendly energy. Through state ownership, we have triggered a strong commitment to renewable energy and environmental technologies. The bet is based on the fact that we raise capital, and then we trigger more capital on business terms. Last week, the agreement with Sweden on green certificates was signed. It will trigger billions of investments in new renewable energy and renewable energy. Furthermore, in the State budget for 2011, we have established an environmental technology programme of nearly 300 million. kr. It shall include, inter alia: support pilot plants and prototypes, as requested by industry. The large companies in particular have seen that today's tool has not been good enough for the major environmental technology lifts. This week it became known that a selection should look at the long-term evolution of the force and energy balance. This is a very important measure both for the power-using industry and for the power-producing industry. These four measures remain important for environmentally friendly energy and for Norwegian business. The collection represents a bet of historical dimensions. No previous government has been in the vicinity of such a lift for environmentally friendly energy. But this is not just a commitment to environmentally friendly energy, it is also a strong industrial policy commitment. Billion investments in environmentally friendly energy open up a large market for supplies from high-tech Norwegian companies. This is not least true of the supplier industry. Central people in the supplier industry, not least from my country, have stood out and said that now we have a strong growing market in environmental technology. Together with government measures, they create a springboard to enter a market that is highly expanding. It is precisely the technology that the offshore industry, as the supplier industry, in Norway, has, that allows one to go into it with, for example, sea wind turbines in the United Kingdom. It'll be one way to get more legs to stand on, so we don't let down crews in this industry when we start approaching the end of the oil age. SV is concerned about facilitating a varied business with both small and large enterprises. Sometimes I have the impression that some people are trying to make a difference between small and large companies. It's going to be very positive about small businesses – and that's what we think in SV is good – but the point is that we need both, and my experience is that they can support each other. This may include, inter alia: through sectoral networks between large and small enterprises, including academic environments, such as universities or higher education institutions, participating. I have had the pleasure of participating in such networks and have seen how much effect it can have. This means that large enterprises have more resources to work with universities and universities with regard to research and development programmes that require both effort and competence. Small businesses may not have enough time to be involved in the major projects, but through networking, they may be able to transfer competences from larger enterprises, which may have joint skills development with universities and universities. The kind of networks I'm talking about here are often networks established through public support schemes. We have two major programs that build such networks. It is the Arena programme, and it is the Norwegian Centres of Expertise programme. I have seen several cases in which it is that once we've got the clusters, the food clusters, within these programmes, it has lifted the regional industrial cluster quite strongly both competently and respectfully, also with regard to recruiting qualified personnel and getting positions on the market. That's why it surprises me very much that the Right in its alternative state budget is cutting precisely in the budget line that, among other things, is. contribute to financing the Arena programme and the Norwegian Centres of Expertise. I think it's got to be clear that the game hasn't gotten into the good effects of the two programs. Primary industries are an important part of industrial policy, not least in the districts. Climate crisis and global food shortages have seen a new focus on agriculture. We are facing a situation where climate change can threaten global food supply. It is therefore important for Norway to take care of and further develop agricultural policy. Agriculture also produces important common good. Agriculture is the basis for busses in many rural areas of the district of Norway. Without viable agriculture in the districts, many rural areas will be depopulated. Agriculture also provides the basis for other district industries, such as the food industry, travel and experience tourism. Norway has a topography that makes it imperative to operate agriculture in many places. In such a country, market forces cannot ensure food security and living communities. It is important to further develop the well-established cooperation between the country and the agricultural organisations and to continue the system of agricultural negotiations if we are to maintain an active agricultural and rural population throughout the country. The right-hand side cuts heavily in agricultural support and will deregulate agriculture. This is a scheme for centralising and building up Norwegian agriculture. If the Right Party and the Advance Party were to gain power, I doubt that the small settlers in my home country would have a good future. There is no reason to hide that we are facing some challenges in agriculture. It's good that the opposition is also committed to these challenges, which we appreciate very much. We look with interest at the recordings that are coming. But the cut-off and the cut-off that the right hand part provides will only accelerate the problems and increase the exit from the industry. Norway is a large fishing nation. The wild marine resources are common to their property. It is important to ensure these resources for future generations through resilient management and resilient housing. It is also important to have a varied fleet that secures the employment and construction of coastal communities. The breeding industry has grown up to become a major and important industry, which is now exporting 26 billion. kr per year. The industry is also important for many communities and many coastal communities. Based on the fishing and farming industries, the government has set itself the goal of becoming a leading maritime nation. This is an important effort that can help to increase the value creation in the industry, while at the same time we continue with a robust governance regime. But farming is facing major challenges. The problem with salmoneus threatens the wild species and reduces the value of the farmed fish. Escape leads to a lot of farmed fish in important salmon seals, and we get the incorporation of genes from farmed fish into wild fish strains. The industry also has a problem with fish diseases. It is important that the industry gets control of these problems. Otherwise, not only will it go beyond the wild axis, it will also threaten the future of the industry. We know from other young industries that strict public environmental requirements are important. It is crucial both for the wild and for the farmed industries that governments follow developments closely and take the necessary measures and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1073	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1077	Today's government, consisting of SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party, has been in government for many years, including: agricultural policy is an area of concern. But never before have there been so many empty, unoccupied farms that now — nearly 35,000. Never before have there been so few full-time or part-time farmers. Never before have we had as little food soil as we have now, and never before have we built down as much food soil as we have now. Never before have farmers paid so little for their work — in recent times — and 2009 was a particularly bad year for some of the farmers. Never before has there been so much frustration between farmers who have buffed as a profession, in relation to predators, such as SV wants many of them. Never before have so many transfers been made to agriculture, set against the number of users and the number of drivers. Never before has there been so much lack of new ideas, solutions or investments. What went wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1082	As I said in my article, agriculture is an important industry, and it is a very important basis for district policy and for us to have living settlements throughout the country. What I also said in my article is that it's good that the opposition comes in and looks at those issues. But what I'm experiencing here again from the Progress Party is that they have a good overview and a list of the issues in the industry, but they don't have solutions. The solution to the Progress Party is cut, and it's cut, and it's cut-off, which everyone in the industry is completely over-exploited if only will lead to accelerating problems, and not reverse the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1087	The representative Holmelid referred in warm terms to the national focus on State power and the national focus on renewable energy. Now it's like Statkraft is a pretty big owner of a German energy company called E.ON. E.ON operates an energy production that is distributed as follows: 38 pst. is oil and gas, 34 pst. based on coal, 15 pst. based on nuclear power, 7 pst. on hydropower and 6 pst. on new renewable resources. My question to Holmelid is: would it have strengthened the profile of Statkraft to focus on the sustainable and renewable resource, if one had sold out of E.ON and perhaps used that capital to raise capital to focus on the new focused strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1094	I am pleased that the Right is busy with new renewable energy, because it is also, as I stressed in my post, something of what SV has worked heavily for. We've actually made it into an investment of 82 billion. kr in new renewable energy – none of the crowns will go to fossil energy. It is an unparalleled renewable energy that has simply been realised through a good ownership dialogue between Statkraft and the state. So all the money that is now entering from the state's side, and the new funds that are triggered, are triggered in relation to new renewable energy, and none of them go to gas power plants or fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1099	The Christian People's Party is associated with the Committee and SV in the Commentary on Food Safety, where at the end of the comment we address the challenge of fur animal nutrition. The Christian People's Party leaves the comment in the last paragraph. Maybe you're wondering why? It says that the majority asks the Food Authority to ‘apply sanctions to eliminate any unprofessional breeders in the industry’. The Christian People's Party is not against sanctions. But does the representative Holmelid, who is behind the remark, think that there are unprofessional breeders in the industry, since one stands behind the word «possible»?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1106	Then I can hire by saying that there is nothing secret that SV is skeptical about the whole industry. But as long as we have the nutrition, we have to try to clean up as much as we can, and one cannot judge single breeders in advance. When we talk about some being unprofessional, it has to be "possible" until the opposite is proven. Something else is that I'm skeptical about the whole industry, and I don't think she has the strength to bear. But as long as we talk about single breeders, we're not going to judge them as unprofessional until they're proven, and then we use the word 'possible'.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1111	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1114	Through an active and offensive fiscal policy, the government has led the country through the worst financial crisis the world has ever seen. Now it's important to keep going. The Centre is committed to pursuing an industrial policy that facilitates an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business. Let me start by referring to an area that we in the Center Party are very concerned about, and that has great significance both for people and business, namely, transport. In 2011, 2.8 billion is granted. kr more for transport purposes. This is a growth of 10.6 pst. In doing so, the government is on a regular basis following the promises made in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Transport for this work. Environmental technology and renewable energy investment are forward-looking, and the government is putting up a number of efforts in this area. The government will also spend close to 2 billion in 2011. through Enova on measures to increase production of renewable energy and heat, to drive energy efficiency in construction and industry and to contribute to new technologies in this area. In addition, Innovation Norway is provided with funds to invest in environmental technologies. The Green Certificate Agreement, which was signed last week, will contribute to 26.4 TWh of new energy, with the aim of ensuring an equal distribution of this between Norway and Sweden. Strengthening State power shows the possibility, through state ownership, to build up under renewable efforts both in Norway and outside its borders. I would also like to highlight the Government's strategy for renewable energy production at sea, which points out the direction of a long-term effort to turn sea wind into a new Norwegian industry, technologically and energyically. In addition, it is important that the aid scheme for extracting raw material for the production of forest chips be continued as part of the government's bioenergy effort. Agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. The main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population. It is also important to see this task in the context of population development, both internationally and nationally. In this picture, we, as a nation, have to take responsibility for to feed our own people. In this context, I would like to characterise the proposals of the Progress Party for cuts in this area as being directly irresponsible. The Progress Party proposes a cut within the agricultural agreement of 7.7 billion. kr, i.e. a cut of nearly 60 pst. in a single year. The cut-off proposals in support, combined with the other proposals, will centralise agriculture in Norway around the largest cities after a bankruptcy wave, while it is hardly possible to maintain any agriculture in the rest of the country. It is not only the primary production that will be affected, but also to a significant extent the processing, turnover and supply chain. Right-hand cut proposal, almost 2 billion. kr is also dramatic. Nor is it helpful for agricultural families that the main measures of the Right to compensate for cuts are to remove price controls, so that they can buy their agricultural property a little more expensive. The centre party is engaged in economic development throughout the country. Entrepreneurship, small businesses and regional development are therefore also important. I therefore think it is positive that the allocation to local food funds is increasing, and that a new business gardening programme will be established from 1 January 2011, which will also strengthen the framework. The government also emphasises the follow-up to the North Region Strategy, New North Building Stones, and has focused on the development of nutrition on land in the further follow-up. In particular, I would like to highlight tourism, mining, bio-prospecting, aquaculture and oil and gas as exciting areas with great potential. The new transport investigation for the north, recently presented in Tromsø, shows how we can achieve a more coordinated interaction between business development in the north and investment in infrastructure. I look forward to the follow-up to this message. The government aims to make Norway the world’s leading maritime nation, and the Central Party is pleased that the government is facilitating 5 pst. increase in MTB in Troms and Finnmark in 2011. This is a sustainable and forward-looking initiative, and I have expectations that the loop situation in 2012 will be at such a level that the government can assess further capacity growth across the country, as the government statement also states. The Central Party is pleased that the Government of the State Budget for 2011 is making an offensive effort to facilitate economic development throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1146	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1149	Today’s agricultural aid is designed to produce more than consumers need, for example: of milk. Excess milk is used to produce cheese and butter exported abroad at a lower price than the price of the products in Norway. In this way, Norwegian taxpayers and milk drinkers — often families with young children — contribute to sponsoring the consumption of cheap Jarlsbergost by foreigners. This is a very expensive way to keep up the activity in agriculture. We get a transfer of funds from Norwegian citizens that costs each family 800 kroner a year – or rather Norwegian taxpayers 1 billion. kr. 1 billion. In hospital settings, 2000 new sick places, which Norway needs, would be given to us. My question to the representative will be: How can the representative Lange Nordahl defend this use of money? And how many sick homes are the representatives of Lange Nordahl willing to sacrifice to maintain today's faulty agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1158	I think it is very interesting that the Progress Party shows concern for agriculture. I particularly think it is interesting that the Progress Party in its proposal adds up to a cut of 7.7 billion. kr. I do not believe that the Progress Party is particularly concerned with what the Centre party is about, namely an increased level of self-sufficiency, based on Norwegian resources and agriculture throughout the country. We are concerned that food production should be the bearer of Norwegian agriculture, and we are committed to strengthening the economy of grass-based livestock. The representative of the Progress Party here is a small problem in the big picture. Here we have to be concerned about how we are going to conduct agricultural policy and feed our own population, in a world where the number of people is increasing, and where the number of people in Norway is also increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1168	An action has been initiated, «Let the towns live, Jens». The activists shall demonstrate outside the Storting on Friday and shall end by providing a requirement for a change in predatory policy. This shows just how important predatory policy is for Building Norway, but the government speaks with at least two tongues, and the uncertainty is total. Last night we were able to read in the Nations that the Ministry of Agriculture is cancelling an investigation into the compensation rules that the Ministry of the Environment started. Can the representative Lange Nordahl and the government parties now promise that predatory policies will be taken into account, so that it will live with District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1177	I want to thank you for the question and the commitment from the Right. The government statement makes it clear that we need to have new stocking targets for wolves and bears. This is a work that is in progress. There's a lot of commitment in this area, and it's important that we get into a policy that allows us to have both grazing animals and predators in this country. The government statement also states that compensation should be based on actual losses. I'm assuming this is being followed up. I also see that the Minister of Agriculture has been very clear on this in his statements. Robbery policy will be an opportunity to discuss further in this Chamber. I think it is very important that we have a great deal of attention also to this part of the basis for farming throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1186	The government budget reduced its operating budget in excess of 2 pst. – this at a time when the detections in both fur and aquaculture industries are high, and at a time of food additives challenges. As the representative himself said, we want safe food. This makes the cuts seem quite incomprehensible. Is this also incomprehensible to the representative, Lange Nordahl, or is this a sensible reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1191	The center part is concerned with safe food, and we're also concerned with animal welfare. I assume that the Food Safety Authority will give priority to its use of resources according to the frameworks they have, and that they will also follow up the instructions they have given, and the assignment they have received from accumulation and government. We are committed to following the situation closely, not least in the case of fur animals. It is also a new legislation that is under review, which I believe the representative of Andersen Eide is also aware of. It is important that we pay attention to the area, and it is important that we follow this closely, but as I said, I base on the fact that the Food Safety Authority will give priority to its tasks and follow them up within the framework they have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1196	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1199	I want to start my article by raising the needs of agriculture. The Christian People's Party wants active agriculture in all parts of the country. This is essential for maintaining the main features of the housing pattern and a living cultural landscape. A prerequisite for recruitment is that agriculture provides income to live on. Therefore, it is important that farmers receive income growth in line with other groups in society. The Christian People's Party will facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and opportunities for different forms of cooperation. We will give greater freedom of choice to active agricultural businesses. At the same time, alternative business development should be pursued in order to provide a basis for more robust and forward-looking agricultural production across the country. Agriculture has long faced challenges related to investment in new operations. The Christian People's Party proposed to increase the depreciation rate of agricultural buildings – group g – from 4 to 6 pst in the financial position. Agricultural buildings have a higher rate of impairment than other production buildings, and the tax depreciation period, as it is today, is 100 years longer than the operating economy and 100 years longer in Norway than for similar buildings in Sweden and Denmark. The low depreciation rate is very hampered by the ability to invest in Norwegian agriculture and provides a high level of liquidity burden in the case of larger investments. With the government’s proposal, the Food Authority actually reduces its operating budget by more than 2 pst. The detection of poor control of fur animal nutrition, the challenges of food additives and the problems of lice in the farming industry make the cut incomprehensible, taking into account the challenges to be addressed by the Food Safety Authority. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed to increase the funding by 10 million. in addition to the government's proposals to strengthen food safety, improve the supervision of fur production and contribute to an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is essential for the creation of value added and employment along the coast. The marine industry is in strong growth and the export value of salmon in the first half of 2010 was 13.9 billion. kr – an increase of 31 pst. compared to last year. Research and technological development are essential for the possibility of sustainable and profitable production in the aquaculture industry in the long term. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed 40 million in the financial position. In addition to government proposals for research and technology development for sustainable fish farming under Framework Area 16. In this connection, I would also like to mention the representative proposal by the Christian People's Party on binding environmental measures for the farming industry, which is now under consideration in the nutrition committee. In the Christian People's Party, we are happy to be able to grant money for many good purposes, but at the same time, we are aware that there will be neither cash support, sick homes, child protection nor new teachers if we do not have tax revenues. Value creation in business is the basis for our well-being, and the Christian People's Party will facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. The government's proposal does not provide the necessary strengthening of the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy that we need to finance future welfare. Increased commitment to research, innovation and good public infrastructure are key success criteria for a value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. The Christian People's Party therefore proposed in the financial setting to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme and the User-driven Innovation Arena to stimulate the research and innovation capacity of businesses and to increase the appropriation for transport with a combined total of nearly 700 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. We further prioritised increasing SIVA's contribution to innovation and business development by 25 million. NOK 25 million. in addition to the government's proposal for seed funds for initial investment capital. The Christian People's Party further proposed in the financial position to remove the inheritance tax on generation change in family businesses in order to secure jobs and value creation. In order to prevent many young people from falling out of the labour market, we proposed halving the employer’s fee for new apprentices, so that more people can gain a job and fit into the labour market. We can't afford to get young people out of work until they get really started. There is a poor social economy and an abuse of young people who want to contribute their labour force to such an enterprise. Then I would like to address the suggestions made by the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1220	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1225	In its strategy, the government has taken a firm stand in relation to maritime policy. It contains many important measures, including: maintaining the ceiling of NOK 198 000 in the net pay scheme. I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party representative, who otherwise has a great commitment within the maritime industry, can stand behind a cut in the net payroll scheme of a total of 550 million. kr in relation to the budget submitted by the government. Who are the more than 2,500 seafarers to be set ashore, out of the Christian People's Party's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1232	The net pay scheme is important for the maritime industry. The net pay system, as it is today, and as it will be in the future, is something the Christian People's Party is working on. When we stand by the system we stand for today, it is to underline the distorting effect it has had on other industries, especially the fishing industry. That's the basis for us on the scheme that we have today. But as I said, we want to get on with a renewed net pay system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1239	I think it is very positive that the representative Andersen Eide shows a great commitment to agriculture. The Christian People's Party is committed to an active agriculture in all parts of the country, and maintains the main features of the housing pattern and a living cultural landscape. My question to the representative is: what will the Christian People's Party do to strengthen the economy of agriculture in those areas where cooperatives and forms of cooperation are not possible for practical reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1246	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the development of income in agriculture. As far as cooperatives are concerned, there has been a major theme on which we have spent a lot of time in the Christian People's Party. We see that the co-operation model can be positive for many, but it doesn't work for everyone. Then we also have to look at the schemes that stimulate growth for the others. We have many proposals – investment grants to farmers, we look at the different parts of the country where there is agriculture, and we are concerned about the West, where we want to strengthen grass-based livestock. So we have many incentives and many suggestions to increase the income of the farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1252	In a longer comment on salmon farming, Christian Folkeparti writes that they want a strong farming industry in Norway. I very much agree with that. They also describe the problems of sustainability and the environment, and propose some measures, including: closed rearing facilities. I'm not going to go into it directly, but we have a situation where it's really hard to know what is the status of Norwegian farming in relation to disease, sustainability, and the fact that directorates and departments are opposing each other. It's pretty hard to be a politician about this. That's at least our opinion. Does the Christian People's Party think that some of these measures will be implemented before a more detailed status is obtained from the responsible authorities, or does it see that more is needed now, if not an investigation, so at least that a good political platform is given to believe something about this in relation to environmental measures as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1259	We are very concerned about the farming industry. The farming industry is, as both the representative from the Right and I believe, important to our coast. It's a very important industry, especially where I come from. We are concerned that it should be operated in a sustainable way. We're also concerned that the information we get from different teams is not consistent. We get different signals from different directorates and departments, and that's why we've also asked for more neutral information on several occasions. We have a proposal in the Industry Committee on sustainable nutrition, and proposals on how we want to move forward. That is why I look forward to the treatment, which I hope will also receive support from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1264	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1267	This fall — and not least in the last few weeks — has had a number of discussions on industrial policy. It is in itself positive that we often discuss industrial policy, but the way these debates are conducted has not been particularly constructive. Instead of a real willingness to assess the opposition's proposal and to engage in dialogue, the government's parties are most concerned either with caricing single sentences or with individual proposals for the unrecognizable, or with being extremely backward and solely concerned with what the previous government has done. Yes, you can, as it is called in the movie "My life as a dog", "jamfära", but then the basis for comparison must be real. This government has had a huge economic space that the previous government didn't have. In reality, money has been allocated for a quantity of more or less good purposes on the expenditure pages of the State budget. Unfortunately, within such a space of action, the government has not given priority to industrial policy in particular. Here there is a significant distinction between the government and the government parties on the one hand and the Left, and some other opposition parties on the other hand. Each year, the Left has proposed a significant effort on better framework conditions for Norwegian business in general and for small businesses in particular. It's e.g. a statement that the government and the government parties are not appreciably concerned about the conditions of self-employed persons. Even prominent representatives of the government parties have warned against developments in which several go from ordinary work to self-employment. The left, on the other hand, wants such a development. We want to make sure that more people are dry and want to bet on ideas. We will reward and praise those who take the chance of creating a job for themselves, and perhaps some more. That is why we propose a number of targeted tax proposals relating to self-employed people. That is why we are proposing to reintroduce grants for unremunerated research efforts into the SkatteFUNN scheme, and therefore we are proposing to improve the social rights of pensioners, sick pay and care for their own children for self-employed workers. Many of the debates we have had recently have been about whether there are good conditions for doing business in Norway or whether it is not. And we have on both sides referred to statistics that show both the one and the other. Now that Christmas peace is about to sink over us, I think we can all be useful in establishing that yes, it is generally good to do business in Norway. We can agree on that if it helps us further, because that's exactly what the left hand point is: we have to move on. We have to build on what's good, and then we have to improve where it's not good, because we also have to be able to recognize that there are things that don't work well. I would particularly like to point out three things, and there is access to capital in the start-up phase, a far too extensive form fields, and that it must be easier and cheaper to start new businesses. In order to create and secure jobs, it is essential to have a generally good framework for all sectors of business, combined with targeted efforts to ensure undergrowth of the unborn enterprises and the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. Public sector instruments need to be strongly stimulated for conversion and innovation rather than traditional activities, geographical considerations and conservation. The economy depends on innovation and innovation to be competitive and meet the challenges of the future. In the alternative state budget of the Left, we have measures to improve the conditions of the Norwegian business community for a total of 5 billion. kr, broken down by approximately the same amount in targeted tax measures and targeted measures across the expenditure side of the State budget. As far as the latter is concerned, it is primarily linked to a strong commitment to infrastructure, to research and to the environment-friendly and climate-friendly business on which we depend in the future. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Left will support the proposal No. 1-8, 10, 15, 20, 21, 27 and 28 in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1289	The food industry is an important part of the value chain of food production in Norway. There is a mutual dependence between agriculture and the food industry, and a strong and competitive food industry is important for agriculture. But it's competitive, and in that light, what I don't understand is why the Left Cutter $45 million. RAK appropriations again, which reduces the competitiveness of industry. What's the reason for that cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1294	As the representative knows, policy is to prioritise, and as I said in my post here right now, we have prioritised improving the framework conditions for small businesses. We're even using 5 billion. kr on it. So let's just simplify it. We want to create a rule board. It costs money. We will increase access to initial capital in the start-up phase of the enterprises. We have a number of measures to stimulate in the start-up phase, and we also want to make it cheaper to hire more people. These are the three areas that small businesses point to, which is a challenge, and we give priority to it. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1299	The Progress Party and the Left have agreed this autumn on a number of proposals relating to simplification and framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the context of simplifying and, in particular, reducing the costs for these small and medium-sized enterprises, the Progress Party has made a proposal to remove the audit obligation for companies with a turnover of less than 5 million. kr and to reduce the retention period for accounts from 10 to 5 years. These are two things that will significantly reduce the costs of enterprises, and the proposal is now under consideration in the Financial Committee. My question to the Left is: is this proposal in which the Left agrees with the Progress Party, so that we can move forward in reducing the costs for small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1306	Yes, we are. We agree. I thought the representative might know that, but then I get to say it. In five minutes we will not be told everything about the good left-wing policy we have in this area. And then I would also say that I'm happy for the support we get in terms of simplification. There I know that the Progress Party is also very offensive. I hope they support us in establishing a rule board, and I think they do. Altin, as the Minister of Industry constantly boasts, was actually the Bondevik government that introduced in December 2002. So in the case of the jewelry list that always comes, first with the Altin, it's actually the Bondevik government that introduced the Altin. But we agree on simplification, and we agree on audit obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1313	Apprentices and vocational training are very important for many small and medium-sized enterprises. Now, in its alternative state budget, the Left has proposed to reduce the benefit of apprentices and will instead opt for exemption from VAT. Now, we've differentiated VAT in Norway, so this will result in significantly less social benefits in those parts of the country that have low VAT rates than in those parts that have normal VAT rates. Then my question to the representative is: why should there be less benefit for apprentices in Finnmark than in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1318	First, I want to commend the post of the representative. I thought that was very good. He was talking about big businesses and small businesses that were interdependent. I thought that was very wise to say, and it seemed as if he had good knowledge of what he was talking about. With regard to SV's policy, I am more concerned about the self-employed. The left has a number of tax havens to stimulate business. It's about the whole country. We look at the country as a whole. For example, in start-ups there shall be no employer’s fee in the first three years and there shall be a minimum deduction for self-employed persons. We have a number of good measures, but they should apply simply to the whole country and not to some parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1329	The previous speaker said that the government parties were most concerned about the past. Well, I'm more than happy to talk about the present. If we look and look around, we see Norway in particular in a fabulous position in terms of economic security, in terms of industrial development, in terms of employment — and not least in terms of a sound government budget and governance. The budgetary position of the Committee on page 10 really contains the whole of history. It says: ‘From 2004 to 2009, 253,900 new jobs were created in Norway at the same time as employment rose from 75 pst. in 2005 to 76,4 pst. in 2009. ‘... It's a story of a country that has managed through the financial crisis with an increase in employment, an increase in employment and a low unemployment, quite unlike any other Western country. The previous representative referred to the film "My Life as a Dog". I can say that in my life as Trond, I never thought that we would be as good as we were when the international economy was hit so hard. It is only through systematic efforts, safe governance and action against the financial crisis that we have ensured that Norwegian workers have a better situation than any other. I heard earlier here that there was concern that there was strong employment growth in the public sector. But most of the employment growth comes in the private sector. I also wonder how the opposition thinks when they keep pushing for us to do even more for our schools, for those who need health care, for the elderly who need care, if at the same time we're not also going to strengthen employment in these areas. We have to do both, and that's what we do. With sound economic governance, we also ensure the well-being of sound public revenues, through profits from the state budget and through investments in the future. I guess when the Chief Speaker of the Advancement Party says that this is a budget on the even, there's some of the prettiest one of the FrP's ever going to characterize a red-green budget that. So I take that as a solid declaration of trust. The 2011 budget is solid. That's suggested $7.45. kr in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Key priorities are trade and international cooperation, innovation and research, the commercialisation of environmental technologies, business simplification, and, above all, through the North Region Initiative, the mapping of our natural resources and the basis for new economic activity. International markets play a major role in business. We now notice that when things go bad in many other countries. Export-oriented sectors depend on what happens outside. And while the EU remains our most important market, we now see, not least after the financial crisis, that countries such as China, Brazil and India are becoming increasingly important to the world economy, and therefore also increasingly important to Norwegian foreign trade. The world is changing, and we have to change as it changes. Therefore, we spend a lot of time facilitating Norwegian business in these countries through trade agreement negotiations, and not least by being with businesses and businesses out, opening doors, connecting contacts, meeting business partners and facilitating us to be where it happens. I am also pleased that the high guarantee framework for the Export Credit Guarantee Institute in 2010 was continued next year. This was an important part of the response package to the yard crisis in our country, and there is a great deal of activity in this area. In the 2011 budget, about 2.18 billion have been set aside. kr for industry-related research in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Most of the funds, 1.34 billion. kr, goes to the Research Council, with key initiatives such as user-driven innovation arena, marine bio-prospecting and environmental technologies. And even though international quotas lead to some items on the government's research budget being adjusted, this is one of the biggest research budgets we've ever had. I think we've never spent more on research in Norway than we do in the 2011 budget. It's an investment in the future. There is a basis for new jobs. Not least we know that if we're going to solve the climate problems, we're going to meet the environmental challenges, we're going to have to work with the business community. We have to use the whole force, the commitment, the innovation that exists in the business world, to get to this. That's why it was a happy day yesterday when, together with the Minister for the Environment, I could be present during the signing of a new period of the NOx agreement that uses the charging system in an excellent way to make it unprofitable to pollute, while at the same time channelling money back to innovation and innovation, so that we can develop the new products that enable us to combine jobs and business development and good environment. Environmental technologies contribute to addressing environmental challenges. At the same time, we are creating new jobs, and, not least, we are ensuring that Norwegian companies are competitive when international environmental requirements become more stringent, because they are going to be. Many enterprises in Norway are already in the process of creating environmentally friendly technologies and goods and services. We will shortly be presenting a national strategy for environmental technologies, but in the 2011 budget, we are already fully committed to increasing the appropriations for environmental technologies. We have a strategy that includes a program of 500 million. DKK in the course of three years, of which 167 million. kr in increase of the 2011 budget. Innovation Norway is probably our main tool in the field of business. In 2011, it's set at 1.47 billion. SEK to Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway did a brilliant job through the financial crisis in managing the government’s extraordinary actions. Now we're back to a normal budgetary situation. Most of the exceptional measures have been reversed through the 2010 budget and the 2011 proposal, and Innovation Norway shall adapt its administration to a normal reality. Therefore, Innovation Norway has a cut in its administrative budget. At the same time, in the new age of 2010, we have a slightly larger grant, so that the migration process can go well. SIVA is another key driver of innovation and value creation. In 2010, an evaluation of SIVA was presented. The evaluation was initiated on the initiative of the Ministry and the comments of the Committee’s representatives from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party that the evaluation initiated by the Riksrevision is therefore not correct. The northern regions are important to the government. What we're doing now to map the geological resources, that we're actually doubling NGU's capacity and sending out planes, helicopters and technicians to identify what we have of the potential for mineral resources, I think it's forward-looking. It's not just going to lead to a lot of good jobs, but it's also giving our part of the world safer access to important minerals. The maritime sector is one of the main areas of government activity. I am pleased that we continue important parts of the action package from in ours. The State owns Norwegian companies to ensure long-term value creation and the interests of the community. Today, when we deal with the changes to the 2010 budget, we also carry out one of the largest capital increases in any state company. This has a background in a long and comprehensive discussion, several reviews of the Government Board and changes in strategy, good dialogue with the Ministry and external evaluation of investment plans. This has now resulted in the government recommending that we reverse the dividend for 2010 and increase equity, thus increasing the company by a total of 14 billion. kr. This will provide an investment programme of about 82 billion. kr. The company then made a high profit, at around the current level. This will be the most comprehensive investment in renewable energy ever, and it's really a cheek egg: we provide jobs and competences in renewable energy, we ensure that we have more access to energy for other businesses and households, and we get profits in the treasury by actually increasing the return on external consultants' estimates with the new strategy than with the old one. It can't be done better. We've used an external financial advisor. We've spent a long time, because we know that this is community money, we want to be sure that they're being used in a good way, and that this is a good placement of money. This is not a cost, it is an investment that will give more money back to good government budget action. In this context, we have proposed strengthening equity. I am pleased to see that the whole committee supports the proposal. For such a large company, continuity, long-termity and predictability are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1390	I fully agree with the Minister of Industry that the appropriations adopted by the Stortinget to counter the financial crisis were absurd. It was also a unanimous biging that was behind these appropriations. The government has followed up, and it's positive. In this context, it was also clearly stated that part of the additional appropriations allocated to Innovation Norway to address the financial crisis would be temporary. It was also suggested that it would be temporary. It is strange that today we are invited to make a decision where, despite the signals from Innovation Norway that this would be temporary, we need to spend 20 million. the taxpayers’ money to reduce the staffing of the business. In connection with the Storting granted money, it should be taken over, and then it would be unnecessary to spend 20 million. Extra to take down the crew. My question is: does the Council of State disagree with the fact that this was a temporary allocation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1399	No, it was a temporary bet. But when we launched the crisis response, through 2009 and into 2010, nobody knew how long this crisis would last. It goes without saying that when Innovation Norway had to build up a staff, build skills, provide external assistance and ensure that staffing is sufficient to implement the measures, it may also be difficult to conclude this in a short time. We're taking a significant cut in Innovation Norway's budget in 2011. I don't think you'll find many examples where you've taken such a big cut in public administration anywhere in such a short time, so this is demanding both for employees, for management and for the board of Innovation Norway. Then we are concerned that this can be done in a good way, not only for the sake of employees, but also for the purpose of Innovation Norway's operation in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1404	Travel life and tourism employmentettes approx. 160,000 and means a lot to District Norway. I get a lot of enquiries from companies that are facing a generation change where the children or others will not take over, even if some of the companies are going with a decent profit. This scepticism is due to the fact that Norway, among other things, has a rigid code, high taxes, inheritance taxes, property taxes, property taxes, rich alcohol laws, different VAT rates, long working days, high competition with neighbouring countries as they can deliver a cheaper product, no snowmobiles, etc. Of course, it depends on where you live in the country and what kind of industry you live in. These are points in which the Progress Party agrees with the industry and in which we will contribute to solving. My question is then: What does the government intend to do so that young people will take over the business of their parents or others, or create their own job as self-employed workers? There's a lot of scepticism about that in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1411	The representative has a warm heart for travel life. We've experienced that many times in this hall. I think that's good, because this is an important industry. It's one of the industries that grow fastest globally. That is why, after we took over in 2005, we have stepped up the investment in travel life enormously. We spend about a quarter of a billion dollars in the 2011 budget on supporting travel, not least through the marketing of Norway internationally to get more people to come here as tourists and visitors. We're never going to be a country that attracts many tourists because of cheap liquor and cheap labour. We have to offer something else, and we have a lot of different and unique things to offer. Travel life must also be based on the high level of costs we have in Norway, because that is what our standard of living is, and we want to maintain it. Then we have to have better products, we have to have high quality, we have to have competence, and we have to have the unique offers. And I am absolutely convinced that together with the industry we will be able to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1418	Governments use a lot of good words about State power in their posts. I guess that's what's deserved for the company. But then it's amazing that you've spent almost two years deciding what to do. The Committee's chairman said earlier today that a long process was needed. My opinion is that there has been no process, and that is what the opposition has criticized. I hear the Council of State say here today that when we are going to spend taxpayers' money, long processes are necessary. But if my memory doesn't fail me completely, then I absolutely remember a government that has occasionally come running to the Storting, with capital expansion in SAS and other, when money is needed. And then it goes pretty fast. When the Council of State looks back at the time that has passed with regard to the treatment of the Government of State and their strategy, is he satisfied with the treatment given to such an important company?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1425	Yes, I think we have done a solid job with the expansion of capital in Statkraft. Not least, I am very pleased with the conclusion of implementing this investment strategy that the new board has now come to. It's true that we sometimes have to get to Stortinget with urgent matters. This is due, for example, to: that you get completely unique opportunities, as Hydro got when you bought Vale, where we have to act quickly and take a decision on what the board is presenting to the owners. Sometimes we have better time, where there is a company that adds up to an investment strategy that is not acute, but that may have something to do with it. Our assessment becomes especially important when we're the only owner, as in Statkraft. Here's what we're responsible for the entire amount of investment. Here we must take this decision on our own. We use external experts and have thorough dialogues with the board. We have done that in this case, and the conclusion is, in my view, excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1432	Increased commitment to research, innovation and good public infrastructure are key success criteria for a value-creating business. The Christian People's Party proposed in the financial setting to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme and user-driven innovation to stimulate this value creation. When the Business Committee comes out into different parts of the country and meets entrepreneurs and fund managers, the theme is the same: lack of available seed capital. Does the Council of State see that the supply of this type of capital at an early stage for businesses is so important that it needs to be strengthened in the future, i.e. more money in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1440	Yes, I think that public and private players are also involved in providing risk capital, support to entrepreneurs, support to entrepreneurs, seed funds, etc., is an important tool for us to do it as well as we do in Norway. We now have a full evaluation of both Innovation Norway and SIVA, which manages some of these instruments. It's going to be interesting to see what the final result is going to be there. I think we need to have a discussion of the entire capital supply to Norwegian companies from birth to full production. We have a review of the experience with the seed funds. We know that the new seed funds are running out of capital, at least they are running out of potential for investing in new businesses. We follow it closely too. We're a capital-rich country, and the state has a lot of capital. The question is how can we help to use it so that it provides the basis for good business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1447	The left is particularly concerned with the conditions of the self-employed. It's going on simplification, and it's going on capital injection, especially in the initial phase. The Council of State has been very constructive in its approach and says that he will consider the proposals we are making in this Chamber. That's why I want to challenge him right before Christmas, that's a little Christmas present, to see if he can point to one of the suggestions that we've made in this room, which he will actively work to get through to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1452	I read the wish list from the Left before Christmas with interest. I always think that the left has had a heart for the small businesses, and I know that you have a lot of good input. We have said that we want to be more concrete in terms of the goal of simplification. We want to have concrete strategies and actions to get results. One of the measures is what also affects the budget, namely a strengthening of the ALTIN, getting more electronic reporting and form, so that we increase this from around 50 pst. up to 95 pst. in 2012. Other things that we look at are auditing obligations, accounting laws and stock laws. We're going through this, and we're going to Stortinget with the conclusions we draw, continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1457	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1460	It is very nice to represent the government fraction in a debate on industrial policy. The framework conditions for business in Norway are good. So it goes down, and there's every reason to be in a good mood. We get through the financial crisis in a good way – not because of the oil, but almost despite it, foreign observers say. We have had a responsible economic policy that has facilitated a stable and historically low interest rate and a low exchange rate. The Council of State just referred to the good figures for labour market developments. I think it must be allowed to be both a little proud, and happy, about it. History speaks for itself, and I'm not going to spend any more time on it, but I'd rather link some comments to things that lie ahead of us. We are going into a year when we are going to complete a big deal on agricultural and food policy. The Labour Party is involved in this work on ambitious objectives both for the agricultural industry and the processing industry. We assume that this is a message covering the whole value chain, from land to table. And unlike the right parties that meet this industry with cut suggestions, we have ambitions for the industry and the whole value chain. We're going to lay the groundwork so that the agricultural actors can continue to invest in an honest and sober description of reality, and with an ambition that we're going to have agriculture all over the country, with a varied structure of use. Different framework conditions, such as climate, topography and different regional advantages, together with state-owned non-performing instruments, need to be achieved in order to achieve the objective of agriculture across the country. In addition, we go in to make some changes to property law. It is extremely important that this communication on agricultural and food policy creates enthusiasm and optimism, and that it is also understood and appreciated by – to say – most people. Another high-potential industry is the mining industry. To me, it's completely incomprehensible that it's been so difficult to get political attention about this industry, because everything we're dealing with about technology and dolls, just comes from this industry. Europe consumes 26 pst. of the world's minerals, but has only 3 pst. Europe's eyes are now directed towards North Norway, which is the Norwegian part of the Fennoscandian shield. What is especially true of the mining industry is that workplaces and local and regional development come where resources are located. That is why this industry is important for the districts and for North Norway. The minerals are crucial to our well-being. We do not yet have a single policy or strategy for this industry, but the red-green government has taken decisive and important offensive action: first new mineral law, which is an important basis for developing a forward-looking and sustainable industrial policy, a work that is now being prioritised in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and then an offensive commitment to mineral mapping in North Norway – 25 million. kr in 2011, to be continued for three more years. I consider this to be a breakthrough in developing a forward-looking mineral and mining policy in Norway. Otherwise, I have to say that I am very satisfied that the government is now starting work on minimising the mining pollution on the loop. It's set at $30 million. kr in its budget and an authorisation to impose commitments on the State in addition to the financial year of up to 190 million. kr. The fact that we are now dealing with those areas where there is the greatest risk of pollution is, in my view, a right priority. The removal of the huge mountains, approx. 1 million tonnes of contaminated mass, or 100 000 lorry, is a large and complex mass movement with a significant risk of point emissions and unforeseen events close to a centre-building, with run-off to one of our main salmon rivers. I am aware that the municipality has asked for an impact assessment of this work on the basis of the Planning and Building Act. No similar action has ever been taken in Norway. People are concerned about how this is going to work, and I assume that the necessary precautions are taken to ensure that the interests of the cultural landscape and the environment are cared for in an acceptable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1471	The socialist agricultural policy system has led to a dramatic decline in Norwegian agriculture with a halve of producers of 20 years and poor income trends in industry — and as many as 34 000 farms are currently empty. Agriculture policy deprives food producers of most of their freedom of activity and the content of their ownership. This means that there are few opportunities for development. Recruitment to an industry that is so well regulated is, of course, difficult with an extensive bureaucracy. In order to reverse this persistently negative trend in agriculture, fundamental changes are necessary to enable the farmer to control his own production and to reduce the influence of politicians and bureaucrats. Less agricultural rules and regulations would mean more development and revenue opportunities than the current regulatory framework conditions for business transfers. It will eventually become a freer world trade, including with food, and then it is important to take the time to ensure that Norwegian agriculture receives the framework conditions adapted to a new trading system. Free trade — including with agricultural products — will result in increased competition in the Norwegian food market, which will benefit consumers. It will also involve export opportunities and new market and income opportunities for food producers. While the government is most concerned about sticking to an old-fashioned regulatory policy that does not work, the Progress Party believes that we need to seize the opportunities that free trade provides for agriculture. We have also recently been able to read the doctoral thesis on Norwegian agriculture by Ivar Gaasland. He means, among other things: that the food security and the cultural landscape can be maintained with a cut of 12 billion. NOK – I say cut at 12 billion. kr. The cut he proposes amounts to NOK 2 500 per capita in Norway. It's about as much as the government spends on running police, law enforcement and justice in Norway. Today’s agricultural aid is designed to produce more than consumers need — for example: milk. Excess milk is used to make cheese and butter exported abroad at a lower price than the price of the products in Norway. In this way, Norwegian taxpayers and dairy drinkers, often families with young children, contribute to sponsoring the consumption of cheap jarlsbergost by foreigners. This is a very expensive way to keep up the activity in agriculture. We get a transfer of funds from Norwegian citizens to foreign cheese specialists who cost each family in Norway 800 kroner a year, or Norwegian taxpayers 1 billion. NOK, which would be converted into hospital places, would give 2000 new places. I asked the representative Nordahl a question instead of where the border would go, but she chose not to answer. So I hope the representative can come back to my question and answer afterwards, there was nothing in her post about it. A short time ago, I attended a seminar in the State Agriculture Administration, which included: researcher Nils Ivar Pettersen said that the doctoral thesis to Ivar Gaasland makes sense – it comes from Nils’ own people. He also called for a look at agricultural conversion and research into the rationality of agricultural policy, which he thought the government had failed and been very bad at. Pettersen also said that those who claim that the policy of the Progress Party would upset agriculture were wrong. So this is from scientists. It is just to record that the researchers in Norway are on a collision course with the government. The National Audit Office is also critical of government policies and states that there is a need for increased targeting and more risk-based control of grants, and that the difference between the actual situation and the objective is too small to govern the design and distribution of grants. The national audit points out the same year after year, namely a lack of control-command. You can also read that you pay a lot of money, without presenting the invoice or documentation. Although the industry itself pays dearly for current policies through extensive restrictions and red tape, consumers have to take the bill. Then it is paradoxical that the consumer is not represented in the negotiating system, but is presented only in terms of high prices and taxes. Today's situation is that agriculture gets over 20 billion. Tax crowns transferred over the State budget, as well as a price level of products far above our neighbouring countries. Compared to Sweden and Denmark, the price of meat and dairy products is over 50 pst. higher. The government has introduced a milk toll on a staggering 388 pst. Consumers are presented at a special price level and at a poor range of products as a result of the agricultural policy system. The result of the agricultural policy pursued shows that it serves neither consumers nor producers. The Progress Party believes that it is time to clean up the agricultural governance system, where producers are given the opportunity to exploit production opportunities on the farm, and where farmers are given more power, at the expense of bureaucracy. The agricultural agreement has played its part and should be terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1497	The foundation of our welfare society is the daily value creation of all the small and larger enterprises in the country. Therefore, the right considers that a business policy that creates sustainable growth and provides the basis not only for the present but also for the future's well-being. On the right, it is disappointed that the government budget lacks a clear strategy for growth growth – despite the fact that new figures show that all Nordic countries around us, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, which do not have the oil smurfed economy of Norway, experience higher growth than Norway. The fact that Norway is now also one of the few countries in the world where, according to the World Bank report, industrial activity has become more difficult over the past five years should really concern the Council of State. The right considers that the government’s 2011 budget is not sufficiently capable of seeing the future challenges facing Norwegian business. The tax consolidation of jobs becomes, for the right, a total misguided policy, all the time we know that increasing growth and new jobs are what will ensure future well-being. In order for Norwegian business to regain international competitiveness, the anti-job special purpose property tax must be removed, together with the inheritance tax. Both represent an additional burden that enterprises in most countries do not have. It is a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian investors that foreign capital invested in Norwegian jobs has fairer tax conditions than our own investors. As if this is not enough: the government has mourned it all with an additional poison pill and introduced the term ‘nutrition property’ as a new printing category in the Property Tax Act. Municipalities that choose to make use of this tax will have a negative impact on investment intentions. The NHO Travel Life indicates that hotels and accommodations will be particularly exposed. They have therefore gone out and warned the municipalities against imposing this property tax, which may seem very distorting. On the right, small businesses’ framework conditions are expected to receive more attention in the public debate than we experience with today’s government. We feel that it is urgent to put in place an industrial policy that provides good soil for creating new jobs. The right proposes a strong simplification of the form field, the removal of the audit obligation and the simplification of the accounting rules for small companies. The right will also improve the tax conditions for individual enterprises through the introduction of a minimum deduction or a separate deduction. We will also simplify share law by introducing an investment fund that will make the form of the individual more equal in terms of investments in its own company – a scheme that will also benefit many farmers. On the right, the government believes that the increase made in the initial write-off rates on machines and equipment reversed from 30 to 20 pst. The right is still proposing 30 pst, because we believe the depreciation rates are an important part of the yard package that should continue with the loan schemes that were given through GIEK and Export Finance. If I was allowed to be a Christmas event and bring Christmas presents to the business community, I know very well what I would have taken with me in my purse to companies and traders around the country: I would have removed the inheritance fee completely. I would have done the same with the property tax, but first of all the taxes on working capital. These are both important policy measures that will help to strengthen businesses and the equity of jobs, making them far more competitive in a new year of hard international competition. I am not surprised, but it is very disappointing that the red-greens have not listened to the furniture industry in this year’s budget and added extra funds to the Innovation Furniture project – nor do they show any interest in Nofima’s facilities in Averøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1520	This government has shown that it wants to maintain high national food production, to use agricultural land throughout the country and to facilitate profitable operation on the use of variable sizes. Of course, the government’s goal of maintaining a living agriculture throughout the country is a very demanding one. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee is so clearly in favour of this, and that the Stortinget sees that agriculture and the resources it represents play an important role in employment and housing. I am also pleased that the majority emphasises that the main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce pure food for its own population. In the field of agriculture and food, the ideological and political differences between the government and the opposition are very evident. I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party are still running their race to cut transfers to agriculture in a way that could almost lead to a fury in the whole or part of the industry. As has been pointed out by several speakers, the Progress Party proposes that the agricultural agreement be approved at a rate of 7.7 billion. kr lower than the government's proposal, i.e. a cut of nearly 60 pst. in one year. It is almost impossible to make a realistic forecast of the consequences such a policy would have. But I can certainly say that over time it will result in bankruptcy and involve a comprehensive reorganisation of Norwegian agriculture. It is not only the primary agricultural sector that is affected, but also to a significant extent the level of processing, turnover and supply. I'll call it an irresponsible business policy. Right-hand cut proposal, almost 2 billion. kr will also be very serious, not least for those young people who have invested and invested in their future that the industry will provide them with income, both to serve the invested capital and to ensure the necessary private consumption for the family. I would like to stress that this government is continuing a sound agricultural policy which, of course, costs in the form of the necessary budgetary provisions and demands effective management. For 2011, we have made clear priorities related to income, forest, climate and food-based research. We get these profilings because we have the ability to prioritise, among other things. by streamlining agricultural and food management. I have entrusted all the activities relating to my department with the task of continuing and strengthening the work on efficiency and conversion, so that we can get as much back for the budgetary resources allocated. Food safety and good animal health are important areas for the supervision of food. We must take seriously the challenges that climate change can pose in the field of animal health. Good preparedness, monitoring and preventive measures are important in order to respond to increased livestock infectious pressures. Attention is focused on animal welfare. I think it's positive that people are concerned with good animal welfare. I have also noticed that the Committee expects an active follow-up on the basis of the new Animal Welfare Act. Good regulation and active supervision provide an important basis for good animal welfare in Norwegian livestock farming. Food surveillance will therefore have animal welfare as one of its particularly priority areas in 2011. Good income development for businessmen is the cornerstone of this government's agricultural policy. From our first agricultural settlement in 2006 until today, an income development that is higher than the average for other groups in crowns has been facilitated, on average, over DKK 90 000 per year, tax taken into account and including forecasts for 2011. This is necessary in the interests of industry itself and the simple fact that income and well-being are essential in order to ensure continued recruitment to the industry. Then, of course, we have to be able to increase the incomes of agriculture in the future as well. Without viable and varied farming across the country, society will not over time achieve the objectives of safe food, living settlements and open and well-kept cultural landscapes. The agricultural agreement concluded this year contains several measures which, assessed as a whole, will specifically strengthen grass-based livestock and milk production. My conclusion on income is that in recent years we have reversed a trend. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are not satisfied with the status of the agricultural economy, and we will continue to focus on improving profitability. But I also want to remember what could have been the alternative. I've already talked about that. Follow-up of St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture has been an important part of the solution. The primary objective of forest policy is increased activity in the forest – we need more raw materials to achieve the objectives of increasing wood use and bioenergy. For 2011, therefore, an increase in the instruments for forestry, climate and energy actions has been proposed. In my time as the Council of State, I have learned that attitudes towards food production have changed, not least internationally. The growing population makes the world need more food, and the food has to be distributed more fairly. Norwegian food production is not large in a global perspective, but is equally an important contribution. We can't just rely on imports of food from other countries. We also need to exploit our natural resources through active agriculture and an active agricultural sector throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1544	I have to say that I almost jumped in the chair when I heard on Wednesday 30 November that Minister of Agriculture, Breck, at NRK Vestfold, said that he reacted to the cheap rib price that was used as bait in the shops. Then came State Council Brekk with the following vocabulary: It may be appropriate to set a lower price limit on groceries. So the Council of State further states that we are concerned that consumers should be faced with the right prices. No, this was no April joke from the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture assessed this in such a way that cheap ribs can be banned throughout the Kingdom. Nortura was stockpiled with 4,800 tonnes of pork in September this year. Then the price war started on the rib, and the stocks went empty in record time. This is evidence of a better outcome when market forces operate without political regulation. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture is: Will the Minister of Agriculture follow up his statements by providing a list of minimum prices for all foodstuffs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1557	It is correct that I have stated that it is both ethically irresponsible and economically irresponsible to sell ribs down to NOK 9.90 per kg – or NOK 14.50 or whatever – in a situation where we are to promote the use of good Norwegian quality food. That's the party food we're talking about, and that's cheaper than dog food. I think it's been an unwise strategy of the food chain. Then I have also said that the issue of the lower price limit is a matter for which the Food Chains Committee will have to review and make an assessment. That was also said by the chairman of the Matkette Committee, Einar Steensnæs, in his comment. What he has said – and as I have said – is in line with assessments that are also carried out internationally. So here there was no demand for a lower price limit on my part. It has been said here that this question needs to be considered, whether a product should be sold below cost, and whether it is right for consumers and for suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1567	I record that the Council of State goes back a little on what he said earlier. But he talks about it being ethically irresponsible when the rib costs a little over 10 kroner. However, the market regulator Nortura has therefore exported – or in good Norwegian dumped nearly 2 000 tonnes of pigmeat to Ukraine for well under 10 DKK per year. kilos. Then you can ask the Council of State: Is it ethically irresponsible, and why is it? This shows that State Council Breck, along with the majority of the Stortinget, is more concerned with subsidising cheap food to Ukraine than with adding up to a policy that works. This is typical socialist policy at its best – give the world cheap meat and let Ola and Kari North pay the bill, in good central spirit. Can the Council of State guarantee that Norway does not import the meat they have dumped into Ukraine, back to Norway, so that the taxpayers in Norway have to pay the bill twice? And: Will the Minister of Agriculture ensure that Norwegian taxpayers do not travel to Ukraine to buy cheap Norwegian meat for which Norwegian taxpayers have already paid through the agricultural settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1578	It is a little difficult for me to know if Norwegian consumers choose to take the trip to Ukraine to buy cheap pork. In fact, it is quite impossible to predict for a Minister of Agriculture and Food. What Nortura does is, of course, to play the role of market regulator. They will ensure that we are able to maintain a balance of demand and production in Norway. Here it is that there has been a small overproduction, and a user as the means of selling out meat internationally – in line with what all other countries also do in the same way when they come in such situations. So this practice has been used before, and it's probably going to be used in the future as well. The point is that we must create stability – both in prices and in production, for Norwegian farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1585	According to the magazine Ren Mat, SVs Heidi Sørensen in the Ministry of Environmental Protection has stated that ‘injectors are poisoned’. She claimed that a number of harms and health problems are caused by the unecological way in which one produces food and that sprays cause serious problems for the ecosystem. On my written question to the Minister of Agriculture, whether he shares the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of the Environment, the Council of State answers that there are no points of reference to say this. It seems that opposition policy from the ministry has become a habit of this government. This creates uncertainty for both Norwegian farmers and consumers. My question to the Council of State is: Who are consumers going to believe in? Should they believe in SV, which governs the Ministry of the Environment, or in the Senterpartiet, which is responsible for the safety of food for the Norwegian population?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1592	I would like to stress that the answer I gave to the question asked by the representative is correct. I would also like to stress that there has been a major and important development in the use of injecting drugs in Norway. We have a strict code. We have legislation to protect the interests of consumers and also the health and welfare of farmers. Therefore, there are many products that have been subsequently banned or whose use has been modified. So this control that is conducted within the system organized by, among other things. Food surveillance is important and appropriate in the interests of consumers. We are committed to using as little as possible sprays in Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, individual products need to be used in some situations, and they must then be controlled so that they do not have negative effects that are not known.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1599	I know that the Minister of Agriculture shares the Christian People's Party's concern that there are few countries in the world that have a lower area of full-grown land per person than Norway has. According to the SSB, it was re-disposaled well over 8 000 deer of cultivated land in 2009. The area of full-grown land in Norway is now down to 1.75 dekar per person. Soil degradation is a major problem, and this is unfortunate for both Norwegian agriculture, the environment and the international food crisis. What concrete action will the Council of State take to reverse this trend here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1606	It's true that I'm concerned about the development of the area of food soil that we have at our disposal, in the perspective that we will continue to produce food in Norway for the Norwegian population for many years to come. We've been able to reduce the re-disposal by approx. 30 pst. The target has been 50 pst., down to the lower edge of 6,000 Dec. Unfortunately, we haven't reached the last goal that far. That's the same goal that the previous government had, and that we've passed on. We are now working on clarifying further measures in the field of soil protection, and we will come back to that. But I would like to stress that the biggest challenge in that area today is the planning of land management by individual municipalities. I believe that the municipalities planning their land must take the soil protection challenges much more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1613	Earlier this year, the Minister of Agriculture had a very high and affordable profile in relation to the conditions for local producers of alcohol. He said to the VG on April 14th: ‘Sale to consumers from farm sales and microbreweries of alcoholic beverages will provide a great opportunity for value creation and will strengthen Norwegian food diversity.’ [[...]] The left promoted a proposal in this Chamber, and then all the representatives of the central parties – insofar as all the government parties – voted against this proposal on the grounds that it would challenge the wine monopoly regime. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture is therefore: Does he agree with this, and will his statements from the VG on 14 April challenge the wine monopoly system, and has he therefore come up with other thoughts? Or is it that he does not get a say in his own party or his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1625	There's an exciting discussion of the representative from the left here taking up. I would like to stress that my views on this matter are the same as before. I have said in the same interviews and in the same context that I have stressed that if we are going to make changes, the starting point must be that we do not destroy the wine monopoly system. I do not think that was in the proposal from the Left, among other things, which was necessary to vote against. In Sweden, too, one is investigating the framework conditions we have for locally produced alcohol. We will also do that in Norway, and we will possibly get back to the necessary changes that will then be made, if it is possible to make changes in line with the wine monopoly system that we have and which is very strongly controlled by the EU system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1633	There is all reason for great optimism for the Norwegian fishing industry. The draft budget by the government bears the mark of that. That is a good budget proposal. As has been said before, this will be the case, among other things. marine research and e.g. marine bio-prospecting, which will be very important for the future. No other government has put the north areas on the map as this government has done here. Part of the industry is still struggling with the aftermath of the financial turmoil. There is still a need for extended and extended credits for parts of the fishing industry in 2011. That is why it is important to continue the guarantee system, and that is also what the government has put in the proposal. I know that it must be terribly annoying for the opposition that I repeatedly stand on this pulpit and boast of Norwegian fisheries management and the fishing industry in general. The export of Norwegian fish is going down. Yes, in the last few days we have even read in the media that Norwegian consumers eat more salmon than before, much more. Although there have been challenges in recent years, things are much better now. New export records are set every year – yes, to some extent every month. The opposition must be some cold fisherman if they are not excited about this. The results I'm referring to don't count on a mountain. The first thing you have, which is very important, and which will be important for the Workers' Party in the years to come, is to keep order in the Norwegian economy. The words of the Norwegian economy are crucial to our business life. A curious increase in interest rates and strong crowns as a result of irresponsible use of money will weaken Norwegian business. This will particularly affect export-oriented industries, such as the fishing industry. Back to the food budget: through this budgetary procedure and the opposition's alternative budget proposals, we see clear policy lines. It's fine, because the fight for social orientation is every day through the little steps and the choices we make. Why change what works? The representative Fleet said in his post that we must raise our eyes. In the fisheries policy, I have to say that it is difficult to see where they are partying. The right is unclear about its priorities in its fisheries policy and, in essence, little concrete. If you're going to draw something out, it has to be something that's not new, and I don't choose to spend time on it. However, it is worth noting that the Right-wing Party is getting close to – and including – the Progress Party in the remarks on fisheries policy. Progress Party: It is no surprise that the Progress Party wants a turnaround in the management of the fishing industry. In the Official Journal of Bergen one could read a statement by Harald T. Nesvik that if the Advance Party comes to power, there will be an embellishment in the demand for who will be allowed to own the fishing boats here in the country. Maybe it'll be clear, he said. The most frightening thing is that the Right too, with Frank Bakke-Jensen in the head, snuffs out to give several land crabs the right to own fishing boats, according to Bergen's Official Journal. I don't think that's good news, especially for North Norway, which is struggling with little capital. That means a dramatic embellishment in the demand for who will own the fishing boats here to land. So these parties are hiding behind that it's a challenge with the generation change that's the cause of this. No, in fact, these are also the political objectives of these parties: release. Then it will not be as the Progress Party has as its goal in one of its notes, a varied fleet structure. Fishing resources will be owned by those who have a financial backbone to buy these rights, and this party's touching care for the many coastal fisheries-dependent communities is falling. This will lead to a purely commercialisation of this important industry for the coast and for the country, where market forces are free of charge. We see what this has led to in recent years. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that the aim is that the values of the sea should benefit coastal communities. The Progress Party on the one hand says that it will strengthen the control of non-regulated and illegal fishing, while at the same time cutting heavily in the allocations to the Directorate of Fisheries. In addition, the Progress Party will cut various fees and charges, but it should be borne in mind that the objectives of these fees are to cover the costs of the operation of supervision and control. At the top of it all, there's a big cut in the Food Authority. It looks like one hand doesn't know what the other does in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1667	Former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, now County of Hedmark, Sylvia Brustad, said through the government's Soria Moria Declaration that travel life was one of five industries in which Norway has specific prerequisites for success. A strategy was put forward to bet on this particular industry. I guess the same thing did the present Soria Moria statement and the same red-green government, and the new Minister of Economic Affairs also says this – i.e. Travel life and tourism – is something the government has to invest in. I have to say that I am not particularly impressed with this development, or we should say the lack of positive development. Compared to our Nordic neighbouring countries, where, for example: Sweden has had an increase, Norway, with the exception of some hotels in and around the largest cities and airports, has had a negative trend. It is often healthy to, for example, hotels are for sale, and new owners come with new ideas and ideas, and often – almost always – they are invested in innovation and expansion. But so many hotels and accommodations that have been and are available for sale now because of failing economy and bankruptcy, it has never been. This is particularly true for high mountain hotels. All 35 pst. of all hotels had a negative result in 2009, and, as I said, the trend continues in 2010 and maybe in 2011. Now, of course, one can say that something is natural development, and that something is due to the financial crisis. Yeah, maybe. But when you look at the legislation that this industry has to fight, as well as all the challenges that the industry has to face, it's not surprising that many people do. It was, compared to other industries, little help from the government in the context of the financial crisis. At the beginning of 2010, the average number of hotels was 25 pst. lower booking rates compared to 2009. 14 pst. they said they would have liquidity problems in the near future. It is for the tourist industry – which employs about 160,000 people, often women, and that there are important jobs out in the districts – a disaster of great importance if you don’t get the economy plus. Tourism is often the most important and most important job in the countryside, and it balances the economy of the municipality. It gives many ring-effects to craftsmen and other private traders, and it makes the municipality exciting, as well as the individual being aware that what is taken for granted is something unique and exciting that tourists from elsewhere in Norway, and perhaps especially from abroad, experience as very interesting and are willing to pay for to experience. Norway is unique as a country. We have as much different nature as others are willing to pay to experience. We have much more we could have sold as experiences if we had allowed creative people to exploit nature in a simple way. An example – and this is a simple example that does not cost anything – is to say yes to snowmobile rides within the given conductor and with some limitations. Today many travel to Sweden with their hobby. There it is yes to this type of driving. The Nordics rent themselves in hotels or cabins, live there for several days, buy services and enjoy themselves. This could provide many millions of income to Norwegian tourist destinations along the borders of both Sweden and Finland. Another thing that would give a lot of loved ones is more tourism combined with agriculture. There are enormous opportunities here, but strict legislation and spatial and regulatory plans often put an end to good plans. This would also give agriculture itself a boost, which would save and not least develop agriculture. I think this would also make the youth more positive to take over. It has not been long since we had a debate here in the Chamber on the production and sale of alcoholic goods on some farms in combination with, for example, tourism. Before the case came up for treatment, both Minister of Agriculture Breck and Minister of Industry Giske were very positive, but in the Chamber both the Workers' Party and the Senter Party voted no. Strange! There has been a lot of positive talk about short-term food. I guess there wouldn't be anything negative about short-range alcohol either, for example. in Hedmark has had for many years. The last one was a joke! Otherwise, it is also to note that when we Norwegians travel on vacation abroad, we spend much more money than foreigners do when they leave Norway. It must be a goal for us that tourists stay here for several days, spend more money and not least are satisfied with what they have paid for. The advertising the satisfied tourists give is unfeasible. The Progress Party believes in tourism and tourism as an important industry in which it is positive to bet. That's why the Progress Party will spend 50 million. kr more than the government to market Norway abroad, and that we are proposing an increase of 2 million. kr in this case to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1699	Norway is a maritime nation – yes, we are actually the world’s second largest export nation of seafood. More than 90 pst. by the fish we pick up from the sea in Norway, exported out of the country. In 2009, we exported seafood for nearly 45 billion dollars. kr. Preliminary figures for 2010 tell us that this year we will pass 50 billion. Norwegian Krone in export value. In addition, the industry creates added value through significant ring-effects. These include: developed leading equipment environments with high export potential. The maritime food industry also contributes to a high level of activity in the transport sector. For an industry that is so export-oriented, it is essential that the price and the level of interest are as low as possible. This is particularly true in Norway, as we have high prices and compensation of employees. That is why I have been very concerned that we housekeepers are wise about the oil money, among other things. because the seafood industry is the first to know the problems if the price and the interest rate increase. The government has the vision that Norway will be the world’s leading maritime nation. We have all the prerequisites for doing that. We have clean and rich seas and a long-distance coast with people who can and will create something. And we work every day for environmental and industrial reasons to live side by side. The situation of the vast majority of fish stocks is now very good, resulting from the good management of resources for several years. This government has made a great effort to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea. It is therefore very gratifying that the work has produced good results. In 2009, no illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing for cod was actually recorded in the Barents Sea. We also continue the fight against unreduced drafts, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore very gratifying that, in the light of a Norwegian proposal, the UN Food Organisation Member States have agreed this week on common international guidelines for by-catch management and reduction of discards. The marine industry is important for Norway. It contributes with high export incomes to the country and creates great activity and many jobs in coastal municipalities. At the same time, the aquaculture industry faces environmental challenges, particularly those related to escape and salmon industry. The government's starting point is that we want to facilitate growth in the aquaculture industry, but under the clear assumption that it is within a sustainable framework. In Finnmark and Troms, lice numbers are low and resistance has not been demonstrated. That's why we believe that in the two northernmost states it can be arranged for 5 pst. growth in 2011. The situation in the rest of the country is different. However, we have said that a new assessment of the issue of capacity increase will take place in 2012. Until 2012, both authorities and industry will have to make good use of time to provide a good basis for further sustainable growth. For the government, this means working on knowledge and technology development, following up the sustainability strategy and developing environmental sustainability measurement units. I would also like to look at measures that can stimulate good attitudes among business actors. Norway is defined by many as a commodity nation. Marine nutrition should have greater ambitions. I believe that we have a great potential to extract added values, among other things. by further processing. Almost all of Norway’s seafood is processed, but mostly in other countries. In systematic product development and good market work, I am convinced that moving further into the value chain will be both economic and socio-economic. It is not least about getting closer to consumers in order to avoid competing with cheap products from low-cost countries. At the same time, there is no concealment that the more seafood products are processed, the higher the customs barriers they encounter. That is why the job of the government, with the Minister of Industry and Trade at the head, by negotiating good trade agreements with our trading partners is very important. The goal of becoming the world's leading maritime nation requires that we have a competitive business. We have to create to be able to share. For this reason, the government’s responsible economic policy is important for Norwegian maritime food industry and for reaching the vision: Norway — the world’s leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1725	I fully agree with the Council of State that Norway should be a prominent maritime nation. We are what we need to be, and we need to move on one step. But my question to the Council of State relates to a gift the Council of State has just received – a living one as such. I like to take some of it in boiled form back again, but it's going to be a completely different discussion. The Kamchatka crab, or the royal crab, which is now spreading on the Finnish coast, and which is also now said to be heading further south, has become a major problem, especially in the fisheries and what is related to the seabed. Some have also said that it is an undesirable species. So obviously there are different levels of conflict. In the current year, the limits on free fishing etc. have been moved. It makes it look like you're actually regulating the catches down instead of up for this species. Can the council say anything if you consider moving the boundaries again, so you get to pick up more of the royal crab?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1732	Let me make it quite clear at the outset that there's something I'm sure of, is that the same king crab will still give us new questions and new challenges. It is a relatively new species in Norwegian fauna that I can conclude that we do not have enough knowledge of. At the same time, those who have lived with the longest, i.e. the fishermen in East Finland, have actually learned to live with it and make good use of it. It is also the case that researchers – mainly one researcher who is an expert in this field – say that yes, there are changes on the seabed, but it is not a wasteland. As for the limits, we haven't fixed next year's management, but we'll follow what the Storting has decided on a two-part administration. When the boundaries were moved, it was first of all to put an end to illegal fishing within the border, while there were challenges related to biology at the heart of a fjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1741	Then we're going to move into a new field, and it's going on breeding. My question to the Council of State is linked to the various signals coming from different departments. Governments – the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs – have one view related to farming. It is obvious that Minister for the Environment, Solheim, has a completely different view of it. Furthermore, we see different opinions from different directorates and institutes. While the Director of the Directorate of Nature Management has one vision and will almost slaughter half of Norwegian farmed fish, fortunately we have other directorates who are in contrast to this. There's just been a meeting where you were going to try to get a step further. The signals that came out of that meeting are that you stand on the spot resting and nothing happens. My question to the Council of State is this: Who is it that we should listen to from the government related to the farming industry and the administration there? Can we now trust that it is the Minister for Fisheries who is, so that the industry meets good times, or is it the Minister for the Environment, so that we face bad times?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1748	Let me first say that the government has one view of this matter. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Minister for Environmental Protection fully agree that the aquaculture industry is an important industry and that it is important for future value creation. At the same time, we agree that this industry has some challenges that need to be solved. It's put a big focus on it. Then we have a structure under the different departments. There is no doubt that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is responsible for the aquaculture industry and its development, while there is no doubt that the Minister for the Environment is responsible for the welfare and challenges of the wild species. So we meet to discuss this, because it's at the intersection of the wild and the farmed that the challenges are. We have a very good dialogue. Otherwise, I look forward to coming back to this room after consuming both Christmas ribs, turkey and Christmas cod and everything, to discuss this further. It is the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs who is still responsible and responsible for the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1755	I interpret it so that there will not be camshaft crabs on the Christmas table of the Minister of Fisheries. Not very many days ago, we had a discussion in this room about the regulation of fisheries. Then we discussed the obligation to live in a company during a generation change. At that time, the Council of State was quite clear that there was no obligation to settle for a generation change. It was in a discussion with the representative Harald Nesvik. So we heard today that Harald Nesvik in reply to a reply repeated the obligation to live as one of the problems. My question to the Council of State is: Is it more uncertain now whether the obligation to live is valid for generational changes, or can the Council of State confirm that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1764	Governments are significantly safer now than the night we discussed it. Then I took a small reservation about my interpretation of the legislation, but carried me back to the department to find out what it was like. It is true that in the event of a generation change in the case of death, there is no obligation to live. Then a person can live in Oslo and take over the company – that is, of course, an activity requirement – and operate it administratively from Oslo. However, if there is a generation change not due to death, but a planned generation change, the matter is different. Then I'll be very honest to say that I don't think there's a lot of logic in it. So I have asked my position, with the background of the knowledge I then got with the question that was asked in this room, to prepare the matter and come to me with it, considering at least to get equal treatment of the two cases. So what's being taken up in this hall, I take with me and do something about it when it's wise to do something about it. I think it's in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1773	I have to admit that it was also on the basis of a well-worded Document No. Eight proposals from the Right – so we get everything right here! I would like to return to a recurring theme, and there is immigration policy on the Finnish coast. Now it's like we've asked about research efforts in the past. Political debates are always difficult if you don't know what the facts are. Now I feel that the discussion around royal crabs is hard, loud, and it is sometimes quite noticeable far away from the war zone as well. In the reply to Nesvik, the Council of State said that there is preferably one scientist who has the right to do this. I come from Finnmark and know that the spring road is long, so it might initially look like there's a little bit of a crew to figure out about these things. Does the Council of State have any plans to increase research efforts, possibly increasing the knowledge of facts out there among people, so that we get a slightly different discussion in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1782	First of all, I fully agree that the one to be honored should – so I would like to share the honor associated with the previous case. To the royal crab. As I said in a previous reply: Yes, I am absolutely sure that here we get questions and challenges that we do not have answers to today. So it was probably a little inaccurate of me to say that there's only one scientist who's got it all figured out, but at least there's one scientist who has a lot to do with it. In addition, there are scientists, not least in Russia, who also have things to do with this, who also have much longer experience with what I choose to call royal crabs – probably because I have a little trouble with that word champ crab, but that's what's right. It is obvious that we need to maintain a high level of research effort here. I am also concerned that we should have a debate based on the facts in this case. I think any debate deserves it when it comes to the development of Norwegian seafood. I'm still putting a lot of emphasis on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1790	My question is in the same street as the representative Nesviks. Yesterday, these fishermen acted outside the Ministry of Fisheries with 4,000 royal crabs. It was a little bit of a life! The action I realized was a protest against the minister, according to the activists then, the most controversial royal cancer administration, which is contrary to St.meld. No 40 for 2006–2007 and violates a number of international laws and conventions, according to them. Is this a correct description of the contents of the administration, and will this lead to an increased invasion of this alien species along our coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1797	It's said here that yesterday the fishermen acted. Yes, there were three fishermen yesterday. But it is the third round in a relatively short time that there are royal crabs on the pavement outside the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast. It's also said that there was a lot of life with 4,000 royal crabs. Yesterday I think they were relatively dead. There was probably more life in the first round when it was just 200. They were definitely alive and were walking into the department on their own legs. That would probably be a bigger life! It is said that this is a protest against the administration of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. I think, to say what's true, that Neptune Network and those who have run this action for the third time, probably have a different purpose than what the fishermen might have. But they get to agree on that. Neptune Network is dissatisfied because they claim they haven't met me. I have offered them a meeting at any time in my meeting room in the department, and I have had a meeting with them before on another matter. They weren't satisfied with that this time. That's it, I've offered it to them to discuss the administration. It is based on a decision in this house. I would like to continue that principle of management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1806	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1809	Right-wing industrial policy aims to facilitate a varied and profitable business life, a business life that guarantees well-being, a business life with safe and interesting jobs. In the budget debate of the year, examples of the dynamic effect right-wing claims are being demanded from members of the government fraction in order to improve the conditions for economic operators. When the red-green government started its work in 2005, the Right, with the policy put in place by the Co-operation Government, had well facilitated the development of nutrition and increased value creation. Much of the story of the red-green gloss picture is therefore based on the fact that Norwegian businesses have succeeded in exploiting the good framework conditions – framework conditions they were given with the Right Government. So when government council Gieske is knee-bending and surfing the business wave, he has to remember that to create a wave like this, you're dependent on muscles, and so those muscles have been with and trained right in business. Security for well-being, economic growth and a business life with safe jobs are thus a major and important part of the called dynamic effect. Now it's not that tax relief is the only tool that the Right has in its business policy. Predictable conditions are important. Norway has a well-regulated business, in which case the right considers it important to have the following elements in mind: Political regulation often has a cost side. Therefore, it is important to remember the intention to regulate. Change to preserve is called in the Higher Value-Based Enterprise Policy. If the regulatory assumptions change, one must also be willing to look at regulation and regulation in a new light. There is a danger, and the Right believes that we see this more often now, that the regulation is maintained more for politics, for one or more parties, or for the part of regulation itself, not because one has to fulfil an intention. This makes policy unpredictable and creates poor conditions for economic growth. The right considers it a problem to operate with different structural arrangements for other similar vessels within the coastal fleet. On the right, there will also be more market-oriented fisheries policy. To the representative Lillian Hansen, who believes that everything is just glory, just prosperity: I would recommend her to travel northward and ask if everyone in the industry is equally satisfied. To the right, Norway believes that a national strategy for mineral exploration and extraction is needed, in order to address the lack of holisticity and to create anchors where they are affected. Right will also look at mineral exploration in the context of escalating the number of protection processes, protection processes which almost without exception lack local anchoring. Here, the Right believes that our policy creates better predictability for both business development and protection policy. It is a cross-thinking that the Council of State Gieske is taking forward the increased bet. It's probably right, but it's actually the way we're thinking about it from the right-hand side. If you can't anchor these kinds of processes locally, you can risk noise, which doesn't always create good, business-friendly policies. Then to the reindeer industry. The right considers that the main problem facing the reindeer industry is that the legislation in force is not enforced. Operators in the industry have everything to gain from the fact that they are considered as business operators, with the rights and obligations that this entails. Unfortunately, today we see a picture of a cultured animal feed industry, and we cannot be aware of that. There will be no good business policy of neglecting sins, and I believe that here the Council of State should take responsibility. Unfortunately, in the debate on oil exploration in Lofoten and the Westphalia, the precautionary principle is being drawn so far as to refuse to seek knowledge. It is of the opinion to the right that it is important for industrial policy to ensure progress in the Norwegian oil and gas extraction. We believe that we need a policy that ensures that we take the position we need in the Barents Sea, in order for Norwegian safety requirements and Norwegian legislation to prevail in industrial development there north. Then it is dangerous to close your eyes and hope that this goes over. There is a problem for business where there is a clear signal of where policy is concerned. In the last year, the marine industry has experienced amazing economic growth, while the environmental challenges have increased. The right is to move power out to regional links and believes a regional concession award is good. The right will therefore look at a new management model for aquaculture. But nevertheless, it is an important principle: if you move power and authority, you have to move it so strongly and so emphatically that the decisions taken at the regional level are the decisions that apply. The Circus around the last two years of salmon concessions does not serve Norwegian industrial policy. Right will have a management model that creates credibility towards environmental protectioners, local authorities, business operators, market players and investors. Finally, the right will take action to secure the wild axis, both in view of the situation of the wild and the reputation of the aquaculture industry. Only when such action is taken will Norway be rigged to become the world’s leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1839	The working party is concerned with creating and sharing, adding companies and their owners and having good and sustainable framework conditions for creating values and jobs. The government has launched a number of simplification measures and to put in place good, long-term and robust framework conditions. We have carried out an evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA. We'll figure out more about the travel life effort. All of this is good, and I look forward to the follow-up here. The government budget is very clear on innovation and innovation in business, among others. in the case of active substance through Innovation Norway and industrial research. Then I register that the opposition, especially the Progress Party, has more money to spend on our bets. But that oversees the focus for us is to keep order in the economy, or else our business is wrong, with the export-right industry and the country of Norway. Even if it hurts both the Right Party and the Advance Party, the nation of Norway has been successful in these five years we have been in government, and then it must be allowed to say that even the government has a great deal of luck. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. We want more. But we must be proud that 253,900 new jobs, 382,000 more jobs, the lowest unemployment in Europe, and that Norway is once again ready for the world's best country to live in. Then, of course, it's not that everything comes from the red-green policy. But on the other hand, it can't be that all this has failed in the government's policy. If we look at the industrial policy in Norway a little from the outside: Norway is ranked no. 8 on the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ list, Norway is no. 9 on the AMD index, Norway is highlighted as a reporting tax haven in a report by the World Bank, all of this in spite of the fact that we have both wealth taxes and extensive VAT arrangements. When one hears that the wealth tax is going to go away, because other countries have removed it, one forgets to say that in those countries there is an introduced property tax. Is this the right answer to how to get the zero-taxors? For whatever one thinks about property taxes, this is a tax where we take the richest. Take a he away, fall some of the legitimacy of our tax system away. The treasure is going to secure our well-being. Taking away the property tax, it actually equals 12,000 places in the hospital. In this option, I select 12,000 more sick places. That choice probably makes the Norwegian people too. The Economic and Social Committee has a number of things in common, although, after having heard the debate both today and Tuesday, it also sees that there are quite clear political differences: the brutalisation of working life by 13 hours, 60 hours a week, temporary insertion and the weakening of job protection. This is not our policy. There is also a distinction in the view of cooperation with both employers’ and employers’ organisations – yes, the Norwegian model – in the view of owning our hydroelectric power, ownership policy and an active industrial policy, not an industry-neutral. Many of the discussions we've had have been simplified. The industry has saved 663 annual works using electronic reporting in Altinn. 45 million forms have been submitted via Altin since 2004. This is a lot of hours saved. Since the tax bill began to offer pre-filled self-declaration online, some 800 annual works have been released. I would also like to highlight a moment that has been little debated, considering why Norway has been doing so well through the financial crisis, that we have such a high population, and that women's participation in the labour market is very high. Investing in education for women is, in fact, investment in human capital, which is an important element of economic growth. But without good as mother's perm and cardboard and without quota and an active equality policy, we wouldn't have been there today. And by tax cuts, there are men who win, not women. Another characteristic of the Norwegian model is that most workers are permanently attached and organised. This gives a clean working life. The choices we make today have a big impact on the way our business looks in 20 years. Then we must pursue an industrial policy that also creates tomorrow's jobs. We can't sell out the horizontal or the large Norwegian companies. Then we can't take away the one party's influence in tripartite cooperation. Then we can't lead a business-neutral policy. The welfare society of the future is now being built. We have to create to share.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1869	I have noticed that the red-green politicians in this debate on agricultural policy once again criticise the opposition to the opposition's proposals. But when you hear the posts that red-green politicians have had here today, it's the same unsubstantiated posts that have been held year after year – probably written by the same advisor. I don't know if I can use the word 'bottles', President, but it's empty words, with no real content. And that's the same thing when you read the setting: it's not a clear course. That's where we're at the nucleus. Norwegian agriculture is currently facing a significant road map for the time being. It requires the protrusion of a clear course. Today there is no clear course. There is no correlation between the happy message communicated by Minister of Agriculture Breck and other red-green politicians, and this situation is felt in the industry. The representative Lundtigen has been a clear critic of the red-green policy. I have registered that on several occasions. And I registered that Lundtegen criticised the Right for the lack of an opportunity to charge an hour's wage in connection with the fleet's posts. The situation today is that under the red-green government there is also no hourly wage to talk about, especially if you are going to do realistic calculations in terms of remuneration both for capital and for work. This is serious, because in this industry we have a state policy that is very late in the development of agriculture. There is a huge development out there, not least on the technical side, and it will have enormous implications for the structure in the future. There is a lot of talk about capital not being allowed to leave the industry, among other things. when criticising the milk exchange system. But in the future, we're dependent on a lot of people taking the choice to leave the industry, so that there's going to be life for those who are left. How can you expect people to take a step out of an industry if you can't bring with you the capital you've invested in the industry? The investment side of the industry is very critical. Quotas and area sizes cannot defend the necessary investments. That's why you have to make clear choices. If you can't make the big choices you need, the changes over the next ten years will be huge in terms of the lack of economy, but also in view of the age structure you have in the industry and in the general population. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is showing clear choices in agricultural policy. There is a lot of talk about the coming agricultural message. I fear that it will be a repetition of the status quo, that is, as it is today. What we need to do in the forthcoming communication on agriculture is to make clear choices, and we need to be far ahead of developments as they are today. The agricultural message must show the way for policy and industry, not the other way around. But with such a passive government council in this sector, I think that development will be the complete opposite of what is going to happen in the coming agricultural notification. It is a paradox that those who are really betting on agriculture today are doing the opposite of what has been done in public policy. It should be a paradox for more than one signatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1886	When next year's government budget is tighter than what we've seen in the last four years, it's a sign that we're in charge of the economy, and that it's central to the government. It is important for us who are engaged in industrial policy. A responsible economic policy that tightens up the use of oil money is important for Norwegian businesses, especially for industry and competitive industries. Although Norway has an open economy, which notes an increasingly strong international competition, we have lower unemployment now than under the previous government, without a financial crisis. There are more people at work, industrial production is on the rise, and business tracking is optimistic. The NHO’s economic director recently said in a press release that he was blowing off the financial crisis. It's probably more optimistic than what I dare to be, but it confirms a strong optimism in business. Because it's value creation that's going to finance our well-being in the future as well. The budget we are discussing today facilitates the development of a forward-looking and innovative business. Some of the measures taken to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis have been scaled down. At the same time, there is an increased focus on instruments that contribute to an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business. The measure package for shipyards and equipment suppliers proves to be the right medicine in a timely manner. Earlier in the fall we could read in the Evening Post that the crisis mood has turned to optimism in the yards, and that the value of the contracts written by Norwegian yards until September was higher than in the last two years together. The progress party representative Harald T. Nesvik stood last week in the pulpit here and boasted that he had agreed to adopt this, and I think that is very good. That the government and the Minister of Industry have such solid support in the Stortinget, including from the opposition, testify to a cross-political and good integration of our policies. GIEK is one of the tools used by Norwegian companies, especially in the time we have spent behind us. The government has set up enhanced frameworks and more flexible arrangements to meet the business needs of risk-absorbing schemes. The framework has had large increases, and the pot is now 120 billion. kr. Other food policy instruments have also been shown to be useful to Norwegian businesses at the stage they have been through, such as the United Kingdom. Innovation Norway, the Research Council, BIA funds and travel — yes, there is a lot to mention. Then we record that the opposition, and especially the Progress Party, has more money to spend on these instruments than we have. At the same time, however, while they present it as a problem that Innovation Norway has so many leaders, it is self-imposed and believes that Innovation Norway must invest in concrete projects. In the alternative budget of the Right, it is a problem that state food transfers have increased since the accession of the red-green government. Instead of increasing State aid to industry, the Right will improve the framework conditions for business. Nevertheless, they include in their comments several specific projects they believe the authorities should show kindness, such as Round Environmental Centres, LofotenMat, etc. There might not be a very bad course here. Environmental technology is a point that I want to mention in particular. The government will spend the entire 307 million. on eco-innovation in 2011. That's an increase of 167 million. kr from last year and includes a completely new three-year eco-innovation programme. As part of this strategy, an eco-innovation programme of over three years totaling 500 million shall be implemented. kr. This is in addition to a number of other green technology bets on other budgets, such as the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. By focusing on environmental technologies, we are helping to solve environmental challenges while at the same time securing jobs and creating new and good jobs. Many companies in Norway are already in the process of creating environmentally friendly technologies, and in the maritime industry this is something that comes with very well, not least in the whole value chain. This is especially positive for the supplier industry now, which is perhaps the industry in this value chain that wears the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1912	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1915	Today, we can read about another joy related to the defence industry in my local style. In today's economic policy budget debate, I also think it is important to look up the perspective of defence and industry. If we go back to the debate that was in Stortinget on the treatment of St.meld. No 38 for 2006-2007, Høres Jan Petersen, who was then the head of the Defence Committee, stated that he: «some of them are more skeptical to the repurchase institution than are the very many others». Int. S. No 117 for 2007-2008 he continued: ‘This member considers that many questions can be raised about how defence equipment is acquired and, in particular, about the repurchase system.’ Furthermore, in its comments, the Right argued against lowering the threshold for repurchasing from 75 million when required. NOK 50 million. kr. As you know, of course, a majority in Stortinget disagreed with the Right, which was once again very well received from the defence and security industry, which is not least giving concrete assignments to Norwegian industry today. I've also applied for the Right Major Choice Program. The word «repurchase» does not appear once. Nor does it say anything about the defence industry, nor in the principal programme to the Right. The government has gone the opposite way. The majority of governments have chosen to strengthen cooperation between defence and industry based on the needs of defence. The defense industry in Norway flowers. Exports to the rest of the world have increased by approx. 50 pst. The Workers' Party has always been in charge of a policy where the acquisitions of defence are also to be used as a business policy tool, and that through it we can manage to contribute to a solid Norwegian defence industry. That is why we are pursuing a policy that requires large acquisitions into the Defence Agency to contribute to increased value creation in Norway, both through ownership and through repurchase agreements. In addition, we focus on multi-national cooperation in defence policy, and we further develop Nordic defence cooperation. All of this is very important to ensure the Norwegian defence industry and several thousand subcontractors throughout the country. We see the result in the form of highly skilled jobs. We see new and important technologies, which also have a large civil use. So, this is an important part of our business policy. I am pleased, like the representative Heggø, that business neutrality has been replaced by a toolbox, because I believe that we need targeted, concrete and active instruments in food policy to promote the skills-intensive and forward-looking areas in which Norway has special assumptions. The defence industry is part of this. Today, this has led to the further development of a 35-year-old business in Kongsberg and to the assignment of 250-300 jobs in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1936	Some believe that the good results achieved by Norway are due to coincidences — that we have found oil and gas on a Norwegian base — and that the results are self-evident. It's not like that. We have a clear ideology and a model of how to achieve good results and work for all – not least in close cooperation between the social partners, through active counter-cyclical policies and active industrial policies and through a highly tax-funded public sector. That's what are the supports in our system of work for everyone. We have chosen to let the income from our natural resources be the property of the community. We have not privatised and allowed a small minority to take over the ownership of the oil and gas resources and the hydropower. That's what other countries have done, and they've lost a lot of money on it. I am very pleased that what is in this position, a significant strengthening of State power, is a government policy that is forward-looking and good, by now strengthening the company by 14 billion. kr, while the yield is clearly anchored in the future. State power is one of the strategic key companies for Norway that manages significant resources. They manage these resources on behalf of the community, including, inter alia: the return shall benefit the community. The company is now taking some important strategic steps. The European power market, market operations, international hydropower, wind power, district heating, small-scale power stations, etc. are under consideration. This is forward-looking resource management, and it is environmental management in the long term, and this will have a major impact on Norway as a nation. Here we also see how a state ownership can operate and put something into life. Here the community gets money back in the long term – in diversity. But State power also has obligations. I believe that the company must be much more active also in relation to the powerful industry, and must be on the road in that context. They are today, but they have to be stronger in the future. I am also very pleased with the large guarantee scheme that came into place from the government, with a total of 20 billion. kr into the fund. This will create long-term, predictable power agreements for the powerful industry. This is also forward-looking policy, and I believe that today we are making some very important decisions on behalf of the Community in relation to our companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1953	On the right, Norwegian industry, Norwegian jobs and value creation have good growth conditions. This is the basis for the well-being that we all want. Norwegian power-processing industries are among our oldest industrial traditions, built around the country's large hydropower resources, and together with the competence of several generations, this industry has also taken leading positions in a global context, not least in terms of environmentally friendly production. Unfortunately, parts of this industry today face some challenges both in terms of framework conditions and in terms of ensuring energy access at competitive prices. Several of the old industrial contracts are running out, some of them already at the turn of the year, which are only a few weeks ahead. It is even reported that a company such as Norwegian Forest in Forest, with 500 jobs directly and perhaps as many as the triple indirect, risks having to send out a permit notice to its employees – this is because a new long-term power agreement has not yet been put in place. And we all know the challenges both business and households in Central Norway have because of high electricity prices, since the government has spent far too much time taking this situation seriously. The same applies to the power-purchase guarantee scheme, which has not yet been notified to ESA. I hope that the Minister of Industry, who unfortunately is not present in the Chamber right now, has such a good knowledge of the Norwegian power-intensive industry that he knows that this type of industry cannot only be switched on and off, depending on the amount of rainfall that comes. We're talking about an industry operating on a global market, and at the same moment they're shutting down production, on the part of customers, that could easily be replaced by other suppliers. Therefore, continuous operation is important. State power, which accounts for about one third of all Norwegian hydropower production, is an almost monopolistic in the market in the provision of long-term industrial contracts. The company accounts for about one third of all Norwegian hydropower production, but this is not the most important relationship in this context. The fact that Statkraft sits on as much as 80 pst. by the capacity of the warehouse, the company must in practice be able to be regarded as a monopolist. It is therefore important that the company does not exploit its monopoly situation but is active and, not least, positively positioned to obtain solutions on energy supplies to Norwegian industry on commercial terms. In the light of network capacity constraints and associated uncertain transmission prices, it is possible for the power-processing industry to enter into long-term industrial agreements with foreign power companies on a date-by-date basis. Thus, the monopolistic situation of State power is, in reality, further reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1973	Active enterprise policies are important for housing and jobs throughout the country. An active industrial policy is more than that of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. It is cross-sectoral and deals with everything from housing, education, transport and other infrastructure, such as: broadband, access to electricity at a reasonable price – and I know all about it, I'm from Middle Norway. I know that the power situation in Central Norway is unsustainable, and I believe that we have actually taken too long to get solutions in place, and that this has created a very challenging situation for the mid-Norway industry. But the situation is taking it seriously. I am concerned to hear representatives from the former Bondevik parties present the situation as if there were a quick fix to resolve the power situation in Middle Norway. That's why it's true that we focus on it, and I think we need solutions to compensate the mid-Norway industry for the uncompetitive power prices, which is in addition to the distance constraints. For us who come from the districts, it is important to have a government that focuses on housing and value creation throughout the country. There is too much of the country's value creation in the districts. When the Statistical Central Bureau earlier published figures that showed that value creation was greater in central districts than in districts, major discussions arose, especially in the districts. Regardless of what you think about the matter, the raw materials in the districts, which is the basis for much of the value creation, are available. Therefore, it is important for business development, for jobs and for value creation – not only in the districts but throughout the country – that people also live and work in the districts. Therefore, it is important, even for the people living in Oslo, that there is a focus on housing, entrepreneurship and nutrition development at Leka, in Meråker, in Snåsa or in Steinkjer. Innovation Norway is an important tool for value creation and jobs across the country. The current model, where many different instruments and requirements for innovation are managed in one institution, is a good solution for users, while ensuring efficient and good distribution of the instruments, not least through local offices. We therefore need to accept a diversity of instruments and more complex objectives than a one-sided focus on the level of innovation. Innovation Norway plays an important role in the development of business and cooperation with county municipalities, and is central to this. This is particularly true where the county councils from 2010 are a significant owner of the company. It is therefore worrying to hear representatives from the Right and the Progress Party detail their own proposals to reduce transfers to county municipalities, both the reduction in the overall framework grant and the reduction or deletion of regional development funds from the State budget. This tells me that some parties do not know or know how important the role of county councils as regional development actors is, and how important their role is to coordinate different instruments – innovation Norway, SIVA, seed funds, regional research funds or municipalities and their first line service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1990	We have a good country to live in. We have good welfare arrangements and a high level of prosperity. Wages are high. So are the prices. The labour force is relatively expensive, but we have also survived the financial and debt crisis with employment remaining. Once again, there is growth in the economy, and Norwegian export companies later seem to be doing well, despite our Norwegian cost level. As the economic problems tower around us and unemployment increases, we have to expect that even more people will look to the country where there is actually work for most people and the wages are high. And they would have to do that. But we demand that they have the same pay terms as Norwegian workers, follow Norwegian law and Norwegian labour rules. That is why we have seen need to generalise tariff agreements, introduce solidarity, own identity cards in some industries and set up regional protection agencies. But that's not enough. The provision of labour has become a big business. Serious Norwegian companies now experience competition by companies that do not comply with Norwegian wage and working conditions, tax rules or social expenditure. The recipe is relatively simple: the Norwegian owner establishes a company in Lithuania that hires labour. The company hires workers from Romania. The rooms are then rented to Norwegian companies on a regular rental contract. All billing is via the Lithuanian company. Payment of wages and salaries to workers goes through international bank accounts in Romania. Neither the company nor the employees pay taxes to Norway, nor to Lithuania. Employees in Romania are expected to be left with an hourly wage of between 50 and 60 DKK, and of course it is very lucrative in one of the poorest countries in Europe. But those who really make the big money are the people who hire out the labour force. No one can compete with this unless they operate in the same way. Norwegian company that operates seriously, with Norwegian employees, pays taxes, employers' fees, holiday pay and, of course, Norwegian wage and subsistence allowances to its employees, does not have a chance of competing with these other companies. Therefore, it is very important and essential for Norwegian businesses that we deal with this problem. Labour market policy must then be linked to industrial policy and competition policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e1999	A nutrition debate without a heavy element of focus on our knowledge institutions will at best be a half-good debate. I say this because our knowledge institutions are increasingly going to be the most important intersections in the design of a future enterprise policy, and for that matter also in regional policy. The most important resource is and will be the human input factor. The knowledge that Ola and Kari have in their careers will be entirely decisive for whether we are closing down with innovation and creating new jobs. I used the word "knowledge institutions" in an introduction, and then in a broad sense – everything from kindergarten through vocational education to higher education and research. Let me start with the most basic, that our kindergartens now have common values with our schools. In a business debate, I would like to point out that today we are talking about creative kindergartens with a focus on innovation and entrepreneurship. It is early action in the field of industrial policy. So it's not just in education policy that early efforts are important. Children and young people have by nature an astonishing and exploratory need. These are features that can also be found with the best researchers and the most energetic entrepreneurs. But curiosity must be stimulated to be developed. Both national and foreign studies show that elephants who have had entrepreneurship as a school subject create their own adult enterprises ten times as often as those who have not. The highlight of Sogn and Fjordane's cooperation with the County Council on the development of training provision in entrepreneurship is therefore a good example of this. In teacher training, entrepreneurship is a multi-disciplinary theme of education. This applies both to general and pre-school education, and the university has also developed a number of further training provision in this area. All study provision uses the REAL tool and experience-based learning. REAL is an American experience-based and educational educational tool in entrepreneurship, which the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane have translated and adapted Norwegian conditions, in cooperation with schools and kindergartens. This is important to secure our country a knowledgeable and competent workforce in the future, which is absolutely crucial to our innovativeness and value creation. In other words, society and the future work life depend on creative people – because of this recording from my side in the nutrition debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2014	The international food and climate crisis will have a major impact on both international and Norwegian agricultural and forestry policies. As in 1974, we are now in a new situation. It's important to have the right perspective. Agriculture is the use of land, forestry is the use of forests, agriculture is the use of land – that is, we have to go back to basics. Agriculture is the deepest recovery of solar energy, and at the same time we also get an effect, namely that we get the capture and storage of CO2 through photosynthesis. Its more green plants and its greener plants, the greater the production of renewable carbon based on air gas CO2. So we're going to have a reduced amount of carbon in the air, while photosynthesis produces carbon to replace oil, gas and carbon. I choose to repeat this from this pulpit, because some truths have to be tapped in. I have experience for that. This gives enormous perspectives in the development of a green business. It is gratifying that government parties in their committee comments point to the importance of increasing Norwegian maritime supply rates, based on Norwegian resources. This is fully in line with the UN Food Organisation's recommendation. This is a secure future policy that Norway can afford! How can this be achieved when today’s agricultural reality is characterised by recruitment crisis, reduced agricultural area, increased imports of food and flour into livestock – i.e. increasingly weaker food security? A new course of agricultural policy is needed. One does not need to be a rocket scientist to understand that Norwegian food safety has gradually deteriorated in the last 20 years. All governments in this period are responsible for this. No government has taken a settlement with the price. The discussion has been the pace of weakening food safety. I should like to hear this honest sailor's call from several in this room. In particular, I will challenge the Right and the Workers' Party. Food policy must first be clarified in the discussion on future agricultural policy. In an honest professional-political debate on what food bill Norwegian agriculture will produce in order to increase food security, the majority of the population will then make the choice. For me, the care of the grandmothers for the health of the grandchildren and food is a good guide for the future menu. They think long-term security based on experience. When this bill is to be based more on Norwegian natural resources, the cereal and feed policy is a crucial instrument. Growing cereals in Norway needs to be more profitable, grass growing needs to be more profitable and imports need to be reduced. Obviously, it'll cost you money. Norway has a low degree of maritime supply, a good economy and a red-green government. We have prerequisites for a new course, and I'm waiting in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2042	In the United Nations, a recent debate has taken place on income trends in agriculture. Many suggest that numbers that the Minister of Agriculture likes to boast do not reveal the real income in the industry. Rightly, the Norwegian agricultural policy does not meet the challenges that exist, and there is a great need for a policy that gives far greater freedom of action to the individual farmer. In the view of the Right, it will be one of the most important measures to strengthen the profitability and threat of the future of agriculture. Right has long been pressing for the Storting to manage a new agricultural message, and finally we have had a positive impact on it. Right? Does it mean that it's not just the agency that's deciding to improve the profitability of agriculture, it's the whole total situation of the farmer that self-employed people who Right now want to focus on. There will also be an important theme in the new agricultural message. The centre batch tries to be the guarantor of the framework conditions of the agricultural industry and tries to create a dependency between this industry and the lot. When we see where the central party is at SV in important issues such as private ownership, protection, predatory game and socialist policy in general, it is clear that right will be a far better ally for agriculture than the central party is trying to present what is also here in the debate today. It is right that the state should continue with financial support for agriculture, but that it should be less bureaucratic and more targeted. Scarecrow propaganda from the central party politicians and agricultural organisations that right in position would destroy agriculture in the districts is very misleading. When the right reduces agricultural transfers, other measures to reduce the cost to the farmer are far outweighed. The criticism our budget gets from the agricultural organisations is often forgotten. On the right, it seems that in a completely different way, there is a need to adapt to both the combination and the full-time use. Support schemes need to be simplified and red taped. We need systems with the lowest possible management costs. What we need most of everything in agriculture is an industry policy that is accurate. We need to stimulate ourselves away from investment droughts in agriculture. Therefore, the Right has a Swedish model investment fund to defer the high personal tax on individuals. That is why we also want to remove inheritance taxes and property taxes, and we want to raise the minimum deduction and raise the maximum tax limit for wage earners. Most farmers have labour income and alternative sources of income besides, so they are also hit by the top tax. We see today that there will be a case in the Supreme Court about liability. This is out-of-date law. Right will remove price controls, sharing and disclosure rules. It will also improve the capital and value situation in agriculture and thus contribute to the creation of a more active and forward-looking agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2063	I want to start with a little comment to the representative Bakke-Jensen. We've been told from the opposition a number of times in this room that now the government has to stop talking about what has happened in previous governments, they have to stop talking about what former civil governments have done and have not done. And then Bakke-Jensen had an article saying that what goes well in business today is writing from previous governments. Now the opposition has to decide soon whether to talk about previous governments, or whether to not talk about previous governments. Or is it that we're going to talk about previous governments every time something goes well, and then we're not going to talk about previous governments every time something goes bad? There's going to be a bit of banal rhetoric that I thought I had to comment on, given that it's especially Right that has always asked the Minister of Industry to stop talking about previous governments. Now, a sudden move is to do the opposite when it's appropriate, and try to take the time to make things work in Norwegian business today. So I'm going to comment on a case that hasn't been listed here today before Tor Bremer picked it up, and it's about competence and education. I sometimes say a little humorous — or perhaps not humorous — that the most important nutrition department is the Ministry of Knowledge. If you've been around the world of work in Norway and compared it to the working life in other countries, you can see that what is very striking in Norwegian working life is that we have a high level of competence at all levels of the organisation. Operators have a high level of competence, mechanics have a high level of competence, and they can easily cooperate with academics because they have confidence in their own competences. So this is to further develop a knowledge-based society that can facilitate and be competitive by being innovative and by having workers who can work independently, perhaps the most important thing we can do. Then it's the rhetoric of the Right that essentially means that we have to get tax relief, because it will save everything in the business, maybe one of the most challenging things in relation to what really matters to the business community, that we take care of the advantages we have, with a high level of competence at all levels of the organization. And then, as I was in the past, it's also making good structures so that business and educational institutions can get better acquainted with each other, some of the grips we have to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2072	Right-wing wants a forward-looking and profitable agricultural industry across the country, providing new opportunities for development with a reduced dependence on public support. For a long time, the right has underlined the need for a new course in agricultural policy, and we are pleased that the government will finally present an agricultural report in spring 2011. Proposals from the Right on such an agricultural notification have been voted down several times in recent years by government parties. Most recently, in the context of the current year’s state budget, the Right pointed to a number of challenges facing agriculture, such as about 30,000 empty house flooring, that about 40 pst. of agricultural land is rent-out land and that price control makes farmers poorer and inhibits housing and investment in rural areas. We note that the construction activity in agriculture is falling, and that the danger signals pointed to by the Right are now in the process of being implemented in the public debate. «While the grass grows, the deer fall down», wrote the Nations at their command. To the right, it is imperative that the forthcoming agricultural notification be based on documented facts about the actual state of Norwegian agriculture today, but also that it is based on realism in relation to what can be achieved through different types of instruments. Many suggest that the public history of Norwegian agriculture does not match the realities. The recent report of New Farmers showed that the new farmers had been most disappointed in their expectations when it came to the economy of the farm and the development of the prices of the products. It is a paradox with the strong criticism of the agricultural policies of other parties by the government, when the government's lack of goals is so well documented. To strengthen agriculture, the Right will remove the price control. It must be senseless that State forest can pay billionaire Stein Erik Hagen a price high above the rate of Borregaard Forests, which other forest owners can only forget. We also remember that the government sent Stoltenberg the daughter to the same Hagen to buy a mansion without the price control turning in. The double morality here is not good. The right will remove the ten-year lease requirement for land, because it is particularly unfortunate at the time of crop rotation. The right will cancel the flat, because a total of 35,000 small farms with housing today are empty, and we will cancel today's ground law ban. The right will also strengthen the rights of the beneficiaries in the general public. The government’s solutions do not sufficiently meet the Mountain Law’s intentions of use in line with the ‘time and urgency’. The management is today too much of a museum watchman, who has far too little focus on farmers having to develop their use in line with social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2089	Norway has unique travel life offers, and the Centre is concerned that travel needs to be given the opportunity to unlock its potential. The centre party is pleased that the government continues to invest in tourism, and this industry must be seen in the context of nature, culture, agriculture, fisheries and transport. The centre party is satisfied with that at least 15 million. kr of this bet shall go to Nordnorsk Reiseliv. A new travel company is now established, and the Central Party has great expectations of a joint profiling of North Norway abroad through this company. We are also busy getting more volume into the travel industry to increase profitability, and it is therefore important to establish more direct routes and charter routes, as they have succeeded in Finland. Then there has to be a commitment to the establishment of several travel life lighthouses in North Norway, which can act as motors in the travel life campaign. The centre party is concerned with the possibility that the links between access to large and unique natural areas, the exploitation of local resources and traditions and distinctive cultural landscapes, and not least the knowledge that people have and that has been developed through generations, must be better exploited for the development of travel life. The centre party believes it is important to strengthen cooperation in food, travel and experiences — across traditional industries, among others. product, geography and travel destinations common to all. In order to realise this potential, coordinated and cross-sectoral efforts are necessary and it will be important to support under centres of expertise responsible for developing and disseminating the knowledge that can be used in travel, food, hunting and tourism. National centres of excellence could play a central role here. An example of centre of expertise is the Norwegian Fjellmatsenter, which is established in connection with the Geilo National Park Village, with strong regional and local initiative and implementation capability. This will also help to bring Norwegian traditional food production into a wider context. Fjord-Norway has over time been Norway's flagship in the field of tourism, and the fjords in the West are also very important nationally. The establishment of Northern Norway Travel Life is inspired by this investment in the West, and I find it exciting that there is interest in the mountain region in the west for a similar investment. This shows that regional profiling, in the context of the national travel strategy, has a high potential. It is therefore important that regional profiling is also emphasised when the national travel strategy is now being evaluated, and I look forward to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2108	I really didn't intend to extend the debate that much more, but it was until the representative Lillian Hansen took the floor. Then I need to clarify some obvious misunderstandings, including how the Directorate of Fisheries works. I'll almost ask that the representative Lillian Hansen, when she comes back to her office, sit down and read Prop. 1 S p. 99. It says it about the Fisheries Directorate. It is clear that the Directorate for Fisheries has a number of different tasks. These include: registered 484 employees in March of the current year. You have a number of offices and regional offices. In other words, there's a lot of things you can do to simplify and streamline to get more out of the money. That is what lies in the efficiency of the Progress Party's budget. There is no question of what is involved in control activities, not of what is involved in registration and coordination between, among other things. breeding and wild fish, etc. No, the biggest challenge is perhaps related to unreported, unregulated and illegal fishing, and it is just connected to the control apparatus. Then we don't have to sit in the situation that, among other things. The government has just made it clear that budgets in some other areas, such as defence and justice, are so pint down that it is actually estimated that a coastguard vessel will be docked because it is not possible to control it all along the coast. It's these challenges the representative Lillian Hansen pointed to, and she has to take them up with her own government. Furthermore, there has been a lot of good words also in the fisheries side. I am also fully convinced that the Council of State is going to do its utmost just to enable this industry to flourish further. As I have said before, I hope that the Council of State will be able to keep Erik Solheim at an intelligible level, and not least manageable, but to get what is involved in the business sector as well. That is the question — after having heard the speeches here today — how we are going to put in place an increase in the value creation and construction of raw materials in the districts. Then I would also like to repeat to the representative Lillian Hansen – who had a good job in most cases, except when she was criticising it – that it is strange that you are against and cannot go in and support the Lofoten Matpark project. The Lofoten Matpark is just a project that has been presented, where you have just shown the possibilities and that we can get it done. It doesn't make sense that you can't go in there and look at individual projects, but in other fields you do it all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2119	The representative, Mr Lundtigen, says that we must have a new course for agricultural policy. He also says that no government has taken any settlement with the policy we have had, and that is why we have ended up there. Yes, I agree. Of course, everyone has to take responsibility for having ended up there. But who is going to take responsibility for us going somewhere else? Well, that's the government of which the representative Lundtägen's party is part. He must not stand up here on the pulpit of the Great Government and cut out the Right, or down there earlier today, and think that the Right's attempt to say that maybe we should think alternately, is a frenzy. That's exactly what he's asking for; he's asking for alternative thoughts. We are going to contribute to this in the new agricultural communication, and I invite the representative Lundteigen early into the Higher Limit of Agricultural Policy. I understand that he does not find hearing for his thoughts at the Center Party. When he shoots at the Right in this debate, he doesn't really mean it. It is a cover operation to get an answer from his co-parties in the government – from SV, but especially from the Workers' Party, which he also mentions. That's where the knot is, and then I think it's going to be completely wrong to attack us in a simplified way, as I said earlier today, just by referring to cuts in the budgets. We have alternate thoughts behind what we're doing. Then it's not sure that that's right. No, but then we know, as Lundtigen says, that 20 years of agricultural policy has not been right either. Then there's actually a need to think differently. But first of all, this is the responsibility of the government. They are the ones who are going to present a new agricultural message. I am convinced that it must contain a lot of the infections that the representative Lundtigen has in this context. If he doesn't get to the Right and see if he can hear some of his views in the minority comments that we probably have to write there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2128	There's one three-four points I'm going to have to look at after what's been mentioned in the debate. One goes on with Young Entrepreneurship, or entrepreneurship as a tool for business development and for involving young people. That's where we agree from the Right. It's very important. In fact, it is so important that we believe that the government does not pay enough attention to it in its budget. Throughout the autumn, we have received alarming messages from those engaged in Young Entrepreneurship that the current government is running and changing their financing system in so many fields, in so many ways and so fast that problems are encountered in completing the programmes that have been adopted, and at least there are problems in having new programmes set up in the past. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Right has additional 10 million. kr to Young Entrepreneurship. That is, to inform the representative of the Workers' Party, because we think this is very important. So to the representative Lundteg in terms of food security. I'm always as happy when people from the Center Party come up and tell me that there's so little grain that we're going to starve to death. We produce 35 million meals of seafood every day, and it's also the ones that claim that eating fish can be healthier than eating pork and dolls. So it's actually like this that we have an opportunity to feed ourselves in the years to come, too, even though it's possible that it's going with someone going around Norway. Finally to Alf Egil Holmelid: I can to some extent agree with you that it is good to drive both history and rewriting from this pulpit. My point of going back to the time before the red-green gloss picture was to tell you that business policy is mostly about business. It's actually like if you're going to surf on a wave, someone must have created that wave. The cancers are the business that has created. So there are people who have put their savings into honest work and have worked out the growth that the Kingdom of Norway has experienced, and then we politicians can stand up here and boast about how great it is. So I'm going to stop doing history. It's okay. But I'll be allowed to shoot in that much of what we can decorate with up here, it's the business that makes sure we can join. Finally to the knowledge-based society, which very many people are going to bring us into: in fact, I think it can be pretty boring in the knowledge-based society if it's the heads of this hall or the national meeting of SV that's going to figure out what we're going to have knowledge about. I'm honest and honest that the knowledge-based society must rely on the knowledge that business has of what we're going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2142	It would have been an advantage to have more articles in such debates, but we get to use the possibilities that are. To the representative Bakke-Jensen: Yes, eating more fish has been tried before. When someone tried it without having agricultural production, it was rationalizing, and that was the experiment. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr of the Progress Party shall have the honor. He says that the Progress Party is making clear choices, and he is afraid that the new agricultural policy will become too much a status quo. So am I. The representative says that there must be clear, clear choices, and we must be far ahead of development. That's right! Very good! No industry is more long-term than agriculture and forestry. In no industry there is a greater need for those involved in education and investment to have a 30-year perspective, at least on what they do. Therefore, one may disagree with Kielland Asmyhr's view, but he shows the will to see the logical consequences of his own policy and has the intention to say openly and honestly what the consequences are. But there's still a lot. In the case of the Right, they say that a ‘wanted a forward-looking and profitable agricultural industry across the country providing new opportunities for development with a reduced dependence on public support’. Glittering! Glittering! It must be forward-looking! It must be profitable! It's supposed to be all over the country! It will provide new opportunities for development! And it will reduce dependence on public support! Glittering! But then you have to show a willingness to recognise how to do it in the future, and not talk about realism – that it is realistic now to cut the agricultural agreement appropriations by 1,970 million. The next year. What realism is there above it, in relation to the Right objective? That's the best example of the Right continuing a policy where you have a great goal and a policy that goes completely into the ditch in relation to the goal. That's the most elegant example I've seen here now, where one tries to present something like this to the Norwegian people. Those who are farmers understand it maritimely. I would like to take the discussion with the representative Røbekk Nørve. You're invited to West Fossen anytime. There we have a room that takes big meetings. You'll be presented in full flower. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2155	The representative, Lundtigen, continues to have a comment of up to 1 minute – if needed? Otherwise, all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2160	First of all an information to the representative Kielland Asmyhr: All of us five of us from the Workers' Party fraction in the Business Committee write our own speeches – all of us! We even read them for each other and take the time – so this is for information. To the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen, you have to be despicable here. I never said that everything is good in the Norwegian fishing industry. I didn't say that – on the contrary, I said it was better. It's going a lot better. Everything is not good, but that is precisely why we are continuing measures such as the guarantee scheme and the management grant. Then I also want to make a comment to the representative Harald Tom Nesvik. First, I get a little nervous when he says it was a good post I had. But I am very pleased that he felt provoked. So to the last one, going to Lofoten Matpark. It is very nice that the Advance Party wants a bet on food. That's good -- it's culture, and it's spectacular. But I assume, when you add a comment in such a case, that you have checked the background. It is strange that the entire opposition, i.e. the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, supports that project. There are actually more food projects in Lofoten. There has been no agreement in the region on how to proceed in this matter. As I said, there are at least two bets outside the Lofoten Food Park. It's called the Center for Food Experience, which is directed by Innovative Experiences and funded by companies and by Innovation Norway. It will certainly – and I have not had time to check it – be coordinated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, following the Ministry's initiative for a resource centre for travel and that there will be cooperation with the University of Stavanger. The feeding bet in Lofoten is, in my view, very good. When there's a good deal coming here from my region, I'm going to grab it too. The food input in Lofoten must and should be reconciled before it is inserted, as noted by the opposition, in the budget proposal under consideration today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2173	First, I just want to let you know that we want to support proposal No. 28, from the Christian People's Party. I would also like to make a comment to the representative from the Labour Party on the Lofoten Matpark. One of the reasons we support it is that in the opposition we are very much for the districts, and we are to establish new things. It's great for the districts. It's a little disappointing that the representative Lillian Hansen, who's from there, won't be there to support the districts. But we'll have to take it with us on the way. It would have been nice to see how Lundtigen would have been as Minister of Agriculture. I hear that Lundtigen has understood part of the problem with the Central Party's policy, so I would have looked forward to having Lundtigen as Minister of Agriculture, if the Senter Party had to have that post. But of course, we have better parties to take over this entry right here in this hall. To get into the problem: when it comes to the reindeer in Finnmark, today it is too high. There's a lot of animal tragedy going on, and we're witnessing a disclaimer from the government that, fortunately, you don't see much of it. We have pure invaders in the country. For a while it was a problem in Finnmark that they destroyed the fields to the farmers, but now the whole of North Norway is hit. Today, there are two or three headlines in the newspapers in the north — and now also far down in the north — about how the clean rages into the farmers, because one cannot deal with a situation that has come out of control altogether. It's time you also focus on animal welfare. If I had been as inefficient in my old job as a fireman and a caller as the government is here, the city of Narvik would not have only been damaged by fire, it would have been burned down, and there would have been only ashes left. This has been going on for years. I've taken it up from this pulpit. Several times we've addressed the problem. We had an interpellation, where we, among other things, warned about a tragedy that would happen on the Finnmark range. And today, the NRK writes, "It warned the tragedy." They say it's a self-guided collapse. You even say, together with others, that the reindeer manager Ellen Inga O. Danger is stronger than the Storting. That's what NRK says. The size has no authority – those who sit there. In other words, the reindeer manager and the industry are stronger than the Storting. It must be a declaration of failure by the Council of State that is itself responsible for the industry. He's in charge of the reindeer manager, but here it's actually under pressure from the NRK that the reindeer manager has more power than the Storting, because the Storting is the demise of action. I support the fact that the government is paralysed by this, and I would like to support the fact that it is time for something to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2190	The Minister of Economic Affairs started his speech by cheering a little that there will be an extension of the NOx fund agreement with the business community. That's something I also enjoy, and that's something that shows that the government sometimes has the ability to listen to the opposition and business. The government's first instrument to cut NOx emissions was, of course, the charging screw. No one thought it would work. The industry said it would not work, and fortunately after a year or two, the government turned the policy around, and put in place the system that the Progress Party and the Right had put in place all the way, namely a fund. Now we see that it was a success. It is likely that you will be able to over-achieve the objectives, and so you will extend the agreement. Unfortunately, the Minister of Industry has been away from this debate for quite some time now. He's as absent as the toolbox in some other areas. Because there are a number of other areas, despite Norway going better than many other countries in financial crisis times, where it seems that we feel that we have become so rich that we are beginning to opt out of entrepreneurial investment. Examples of this have already been mentioned in the debate, for example: CERN wants to invest in Norway. Other examples are Hydro Aluminium Carmine, which wants to invest in a new aluminium line, K6, but has among other things. that today's energy policy and today's CO2 policy make it impossible to take that risk. Alcoa was in the media a year ago and wanted to vent the idea of an aluminium plant in Finnmark powered by gas power. Then the Workers' Party Helga Pedersen was very interested in a dialogue. However, it has never brought about any policy change that has made such a project realistic to be more thorough. A well-known project in Central Norway, Ironman, is a modern melting plant with significantly lower CO2 emissions than its competitors, based on Norwegian gas. Many suggest that that project has to be established abroad with Norwegian gas, because today’s government’s CO2 policy does not allow it to be realised in Norway. We also see that industrial companies in central Norway who want to secure their own power supply through the construction of gas power plants do not have framework conditions that enable them to do just that. CO2 cleaning is required from start-up, without any state contribution. That's the same thing as saying that the project is not wanted. Thus, this government has created problems for very many large industrial investments that Norway should have had, but which policy prevents. So it's a global market for these products. They could establish in Norway and strengthen the Norwegian clusters, but the Minister of Industry lacks a toolbox, and the government lacks guts to challenge SV in CO2 policy. I'm sorry. We must not be so satisfied with the state of things as a result of the oil wealth that we should not allow the industry to develop normally because there may be some CO2 emissions in that context. One has to look globally at the emissions that come from industry, not national.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2227	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2230	The representative Lødemel asked why not the Right is a better alliance partner for the Center Party than SV. The centre party has made its choice, including: on the basis of a careful assessment of the fatal agricultural policy of the Right, which does not respect agricultural work economically. I am going to substantiate it: weakens import protection, a major threat both to primary production and to the tens of thousands of people in the food industry, weakens cooperatives, strengthens chain power and trade, reduces the possibility of price withdrawals, stands on the side of company agriculture, says that holding companies are a solution for the future in terms of ownership of agriculture, without the possibility of aggravation, price control and ownership obligations. The view of the right is historically and ideologically based on a clear opposition to the views of the Central Party. We feel well in an alliance with SV when this is the Right Option, and I have not seen any signs that they will adjust the main course.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2235	The representative Svein Fleet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2238	I perceive that the representative Lundtägen also feels well in company with the Progress Party and their agricultural policy after his embrace by the representative Kielland Asmyhr earlier here today. What I have tried to say, and I believe that the representative of Lundtigen agrees, is that agricultural policy has brought us to a place where we need to find out where we are. I have come to understand that Mr Lundtigen's representative is in agreement. It seems to me remarkable that the section of the Progress Party, which is between 6 and 7 billion. kr, is not spoken negatively about, while the Right Cut, which is much smaller, is more concerned with Lundtigen. I think that when Lundtigen says that what he thinks about the Right is «historical» conditional, we are near the key.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2245	I think that this has been a good debate. I think most people have recognised in some form that it is good to feed in Norway, whether it is in fisheries or other business, or for that matter have good opportunities in agriculture. The differences also come out well. The perhaps strongest engagements that have come so far in this debate are the relationship between snowmobiles and travel life bets, about ribs, and then we've heard a little bit of each about photosynthesis. I can reassure Lundtegen that his post on photosynthesis can also get the support of the Workers' Party, otherwise I am a little surprised by the rest of the assessments he is conducting. So some of the other themes that have been up there. I'm a little surprised by the response of the Christian People's Party to the deletion they're actually making of the net pay scheme. The justification that it is to protect fisheries from the competitive effects of ordinary seafarers, I think it is very thin. The second is that I think the Left in this debate has seen itself through an intervention in several attempts to attack the government parties, which I may not think is entirely correct. Firstly, government parties are not opposed to business simplification, and secondly, the government is not opposed to self-employed people. This becomes, with respect to reporting, a little too much vision. So a little bit to Kielland Asmyhr, who was inside and in an honest enough way said that you should have a strong exchange rate within agriculture, and that you don't get it with the red-green government. It's probably possible, seen with Kielland Asmyhr's eyes. The largest exchange rate conversion in Norwegian agriculture would probably have stood by his own party, if they had been able to eradicate Norwegian agriculture by removing support for agriculture. Then I am in the mood to bring up something that Siri A. Meling mentioned in relation to long-term power agreements for the power-generating industry – a post I join entirely. She assumed a strong commitment to the role of State Power. I am therefore very surprised that the right of two evenings ago in this Chamber rejected any responsibility of power sellers towards the power-generating industry in Norway. There's a big split in the Right about the ratio on this question. It could have been a good idea to clarify whether it is the Fleet's attack or whether Meling's sympathy is valid for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2258	I would also like to thank, in what seems to be the end of this debate, for a comprehensive discussion, which has largely focused on agricultural and food policy. I think it is important that the Storting in this room discuss that topic both today and otherwise, because we are working on some of the most important things in Norwegian business and business – producing food on Norwegian resources for the Norwegian people. That is what we want. That's what we're betting on. And that is the big and important objective of agricultural and food policy. There have been some comments that I must be allowed to comment on. It was especially the representatives of Tåldal and Bakke-Jensen who mentioned the reindeer operation. I would like to stress that part of the contributions, in particular the introduction to the representative, Dråldal, describes a situation in which I do not recognise myself with the background of the information I received after meetings with the Food Authority, the Rein driftsverwaltung, the Rein driftssstyrelsen and all those who work with this industry. I think it's important to read part of the media's description of the situation in the reindeer industry with a slightly more critical look than the one in this room does. It is true that the winter pastures are in very good condition, according to the reindeer sagronomies. It's true that we have challenges in slaughtering right now. It is also true that we have some challenges in relation to animal welfare. It's taken care of. The challenges of slaughter have also been solved by the measures we have discussed in this Chamber in the past, including: by the fact that we so far seem to have slaughtered more than 50,000 animals in Finnland, which is more than in both 2008 and 2009. On a national basis, it appears that we have slaughtered 88 000 animals, which are more than every year — except for one — in the last ten years. This has been addressed through the tools we have arranged for. It works very actively to control both the animal welfare challenge and the slaughter situation, and to balance the industry in the future. Finally, I would like to say that there are some people asking questions about statistics, results, in Norwegian agriculture. I want to say that those who criticize the Minister of Agriculture and Food for having poor statistics have no statistics other than that of the Central Statistical Agency and the Ministry of Agriculture. We might read the statistics a little bit wrong, but it's also important here to be a little bit more nuanced than the one thing in this room is. There is actually a difference between average and individual use results. This is the case in all statistics, and it should have a critical enough vision to see when a reader reads the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2270	I want to say the same thing as the committee chairman, that this has been a good debate. It has been a constructive debate. There has been a calm debate. It may not happen that the discussion on the budgets of the enterprise policy — whether agriculture, fish or the Ministry of Industry or competition policy — has been added on the same day as the Christmas table. There's a reason to celebrate the results we have in Norway. We live on an island with almost full employment in a sea of unemployment. We're living on a pile of solid government finances in an insurgent sea of government debt and deficit, and we have a business life that's internationally and nationally good, despite a major financial crisis. Well, as was said earlier here in one of the posts from the government parties, at least it can't be so wrong that this has happened despite a red-green policy. I think it has a connection with the active efforts we have made to counteract a financial crisis, to build up under innovation, to invest record-breaking amounts in research and innovation, and to cooperate with industry, not least through a policy that supports us under the areas in which we have a distinct advantage – instead of passive business-neutral policy. Norway is a small country. We can't be the best in everything, but we have some areas where our business life is world-class excellent. The fact that public and private players are on the team strengthens the areas where we are already strong, after the good idea, means that we can still claim in an international market, which is going to be tough even in the years to come. It's great that this is an area where I feel that not only the red-green parties, but also the opposition can largely lean back and look at the year that has gone, with happy eyes and be optimistic about the budget we adopt for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2279	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2282	Thank you! It's going to be urgent. First, the representative of Aasland who was unable to recognize the Right. What we discussed two days ago was a remark the majority had in the matter of State Power, where the comment said that expectations were placed on the company. The question from the Right was whether government parties would be careful to formulate expectations for the company, or whether they would do something in relation to law and regulations. We never received an answer to that, and we have not received it today either. So finally to the Council of State Breck: it's actually so that the number of slaughtered pure in Finnmark is decent. That's very good, as the situation is now. But the reason for the concern and the noise is the number of pure ones that starve in their heels. It should be a matter of concern to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2291	The representative Torgeir Tåldal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2294	I didn't intend to take the word, but when the council says that he doesn't recognize the situation described about the animal traditioners that we see in Finnmark, I'm more easily startled. We see from reports that 20-25 pst. of the slaughter weight on some sides and on some districts has fallen. It's just 20 pst. of the districts which have recommended the slaughter weight, established by the Government and the Food Authority. Slaughterhouses report that in some districts there is almost no internal file on the reindeer because it is so debilitated. It's also come up. Then there's research that reports that the reindeer actually loses everything that's of teeth in a few years because it eats too much rock when there's too little food. So my question is, when will the council stop talking and start acting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2303	I just want to make some comments, because it's a pretty interesting debate. I think the Minister of Industry summary was good, that we should be happy, and that it is a good country to live in. But at the same time, self-satisfaction is a scourge. It is obvious that the last two or three years have seen a rather dramatic shift in the balance between the public and private sectors. This is not least the case with employment statistics – it is shifting strongly towards the public sector. The Minister of Economic Affairs said in his first speech that we are a rich country, that we are a wealthy country, and that it is a challenge to find out how the state can best contribute to the creation of economic development. I very much agree with that. The best contribution here, I think, is to let business keep more of its own capital, by removing the property tax. Then we're also a little bit inside agriculture. I think you've got a tremendously interesting ideological clarification. Both the Minister of Agriculture and Lundtägen have raised the ideological issue in the debate. The fact that the Center Party embraces SV, which at its starting point does not accept ownership, is quite interesting. One is far inside the plan economy – and, as we have seen some historical examples, with a plan economy, most of it becomes black. This also applies to transfers. The reason for this is simply because you don't see the creativity that is triggered by the fact that each person is allowed to have his own. That the Center Party so strongly embraces it as an ideologist, I think is quite interesting. I've followed a lot of the debate, and it's been very interesting, so I wanted to make a little comment at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2312	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2315	I have a few small comments. So when it comes to the debate on Lofoten Matpark, that's an example. It is an example of something that can make you in a district have a business that can increase value. It is not because other measures that need to be taken into account – it is positive. What can help lift the fishing industry, create district jobs and increase value, I will embrace. The background to my taking the floor is to make a recommendation to the Council of State. The Council of State said in its statement, and has also said in the past that it will not look at it until 2012 at any later expansion of the MTB related to the farming industry other than in Troms and Finnmark. I hope the Council of State can at least have an opening for, if you manage to deal with some of these problems down the coast, that the carrot can be there to control the situation — even if you do it before 2012 — it could be a small opening to increase the MTB.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2322	The President makes it clear that there are three state councils here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2325	I have to comment again on Mr Träldal's contribution. What I said in my previous post is that the descriptions of what is happening in the reindeer industry are more nuanced than what appears in this room with the post from the representative, Tåldal, and what appears in some media. In fact, in Norwegian reindeer farming there are many areas where there is a good balance between the production of feed and animal numbers. Then there's a few areas where there's a big imbalance. It's mainly in West Finland, and that's where we also use the tools now, to remedy the situation. But in southern Sami areas and many places in Finnmark, Troms and Nordland, there is a useful balance. And it's working really and really from the various reindeer districts to get control and make for a positive development in the future. I think it is important to have the nuances in the main hall when discussing this important industry for large parts of the country. Then I would like to comment on the Gundersen representative's description of the Center Party and our lack of care for private property rights. I have not experienced that this government is opposed to private property rights, but it appears almost like this in the slightly merry post from the representative Gundersen here. We are committed to further developing private ownership. Of course, this government is behind it. What's important here is that we, with the cooperation of the red-green government, actually get done more in this area that we're talking about, the agricultural side, than what can be said to have happened under previous governments, where the representative of Gundersen's party has been with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2334	The representative Lillian Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2338	I can't let you comment on the last post by the representative Harald T. Nesvik. It is very good to go back to the country again in view of Lofoten Matpark, but it is in fact stated in the comment – finally – that it is assumed that the Lofoten Matpark project is ‘followed up by the responsible authorities’. It can't be any clearer, but it's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2343	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two, three, four, five. [[Votation, see pages 1896, 1907 and 1908]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2359	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2368	In this case, the government proposes that the Stortinget join State Forest SF's purchase of Borregaard Forest AS, Borregaard Vafos AS and AS Børresen from Orkla ASA and Borregaard NEA AS, at a price of 1,725 billion. kr. The purchase is proposed to be financed with an equity increase of 1,250 billion. kr. The remaining part of the purchase price, 475 million. kr, is financed by a responsible loan from the State. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party agree to this. The minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, opposes this and will probably justify this position in their own posts. We believe it is positive that the State, through its ownership of Statskog SF, gives the company the opportunity to carry out a property purchase of historical significance. The forest areas are divided into four counties and 24 municipalities. The sale of Orkla forests is the largest sale of productive forest in Norway in recent times. Of course, a property of this magnitude is of national interest, regardless of the economic calculations entered. We therefore agree that the properties have a significant value potential in addition to the forest value of a long-term owner. It is important that the state is guaranteed the right to have large and important natural resources of great importance to society through State Forest. We therefore assume that the purchase strengthens the possibilities for facilitating public access to, among other things. hunting, fishing, recreation and outdoor life, and assumes that the right of access is used in such a way as to make the best use of resources in the Community. In this case there has been a lot of discussion in some environments about the business reason for the purchase. We assume that the purchase is based on business terms, and have noticed that the board believes it is a good industrial investment for the company. We have further recorded that there is a commercial assessment on the basis of which the property is priced and that Orkla’s exchange notification showed that the sale took place following a broad process of high competition and several attractive bids. This is a property traded in an open market where the highest bids win. You have to think a lot about this, but that's for example. those who now oppose the proposal, who also agreed to introduce the law making the market and the maximum price applicable. The purchase will most likely result in a better arrondance of State Forest forest areas. This provides a basis for better and more efficient forest management and, at the same time, greater flexibility in the planning and implementation of the harvest over time. In connection with the purchase, there is a large arrears in the sale of scattered forest parcels from which the enterprise already owns. Within this framework, the majority is particularly concerned that the sale of scattered parcels in Nordland and Troms should also be assessed, and we assume that the government and the company are striving for a good solution to this problem. The resale of properties must also increase the possibility of active local ownership and the income from the sale of the land must be used to repay the State loan of 475 million. kr. In the context of the purchase, several companies are to be structured into a new organisation. In this respect, there is reason to point out that the employees of the companies should be involved and properly maintained in the processes currently being carried out. Overall, this is an incredibly good purchase, a purchase that has dimensions far beyond the business aspects of the purchase. This is a property of national importance and, therefore, it is a legitimate obligation to ensure the size of government properties currently authorised. I can highly recommend Stortinget to join the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2396	Having heard the statement made to the Chairman of the Committee, I wonder what kind of information the Chairman of the Committee has on which we others in the Committee have not been given access. It is quite obvious that there must have been some information that we have not received. The Chairman of the Committee said that: ‘this is an incredibly good purchase’. And if you go in and listen to the article by the committee's chairman, I wonder, what's the background? Because if we're trying to get some basic material out to find out what's at the root of the valuation, we don't get it. We are told that if the majority of the committee wants to know the basic material, the government will consider delivering it – not before. Instead, we are encouraged to send in some questions, and we did — a whole series of questions. But we don't get the answers we want. But we got one answer, and it's related to the question: is there any part of this incredibly good purchase to which this is added, is there any part of this forest that is not commercially viable? For it is obviously important in terms of the valuation of the forest, whether it is propelling to extract timber, etc. Then we get the answer back: Yes, there are many thousand deacons that are not impulsive. I don't quite remember the number, I think it was in the order of 230 000 dekar. It is significant in this context. Nor is the matter of what the chairman of the Committee was concerned with, that this is a consequence of the fact that the Grand Duchy has previously decided on the free fixing of prices. No, that's not it. This case concerns whether to use state capital to recapitalise State Forest in order to deliver a bid that no one else is close to, to deal with this forest. That's what this is all about. Is it reasonable to use at the top of this $1.7 billion? Tax dollars for this purpose, or should we rather spend this money in another way that would be more profitable? The Committee consulted on this matter. In this respect, we were presented by the one hearing body that, yes, it was certain, it was impulsive – every single timber – and it was calculated from the number of cubic woods. With a positive increase you might be able to defend 1.7 billion. kr. The second hearing body was not of that opinion. I expect the Council of State, when he goes to the pulpit here today, to say a little bit more about what underlies this valuation. What is it that makes these 1.7 billion? Is the use of tax credits also reasonable in an economic perspective where you could use it to generate other returns in other companies? I don't think this is a good purchase economically compared to what you get back in return. I wonder what you're basing here on in terms of the return you're going to have on this capital. How will the property be properly operated, and when will a roundabout sale take place? The Progress Party also has a proposal in the vote that we want the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to: « obliging the company immediately to plan a larger arrears of the forest and other real estate owned by the State Forest SF today». If you go into the annual accounts, in the financial statements, to Statskog until today and look at that overview – yes, the Council of State has even written a letter to the Committee and refers to these total accounts – I just have to say that there is no lighting reading related to returns. I hope you can at least make this more impulsive than you have done in the business until today. But with so much of this forest that is not commercially viable, this is not a good purchase either. But I am delighted to hear the Council of State from this pulpit tell us what an excellent economic basis you now have here for future returns, so that we get the tax money back. At least I'm looking forward to the Council of State saying more about what value base this is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2425	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative Nesvik addressed the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2428	It's taken up by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2433	Then the representative Harald T. Nesvik addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2436	State forest is designed as a company in such a way that, with such large capital injections, borrowings, which are now to be made, the matter shall be brought before the Stortinget – not for the Stortinget to close, but for the Stortinget to form a separate opinion as to whether this is a reasonable purchase. Unfortunately, in this case, it has not been possible, there is no basis, to join in what the government says, and which the majority of parties repeat, namely that it is a commercial assessment on the basis of which the pricing is based. We simply have no information that says anything about this being a reasonable price. It is also supported by very many other environments that know forestry, which know this economic pathway – they believe that the price has not been commercially properly assessed. If we had only received information, we could at least say something about this. For the Right, we believe that the state already owns more than enough in Norwegian business. It should have been a very optimal price before we said yes to this. But now, however, we are invited to believe something about it, and despite several rounds in the committee, the only arguments that are constantly repeated are political. So this is a politically motivated purchase. It's an ideology of owning more at the expense of private owners. I think it's a shame that it's like this. The Chairman of the Committee says that it is almost a function of previous decisions in Stortinget that it is this way, but it is not. It is an independent assessment every time whether the country is going to buy or own. Here you have found that you would like to buy. But I think you could find a model that could have been so open that we had a basis for saying yes or no to this. Instead, we really know very little. This places a considerable burden on the Council of State, on the Department and on the government in the future. As regards the return requirements, this is also uncertain. There is now a yield requirement in State Forest. So it's signaled that this could change. I read it this way – and it has the assumption – that with the significant injection of equity that comes here now, it is quite obvious that the return requirements will have to be reduced. I don't think it's a premium to even guess it; this will come relatively quickly. I think it's a pity that you work this way, because we who are in opposition are mostly referred to not having a majority in our affairs. But I think it's neat that we have at least such a good insight that we also agree to make an independent assessment of this. I have to say that sometimes I'm left with the feeling that this is largely done in relation to people's right to travel in the woods. In the nation last Saturday, there was a big look at the Council of State. He says that “a main purpose of State Forest” – and then I expect it to be the purchase he means, because it significantly increases Statskog’s areas – “is that we want to facilitate public access to the land. Individual citizens shall have access to the land, mountain and forested areas’. Yes, sir? I thought we had passed laws years ago that regulated this. For my part, I am never prevented from moving anywhere in the country's forests, forests and mountains, or in private areas. And my impression is that in terms of the price level – if you have to do something more outdoors: hunting or fishing – the state is not particularly reasonable at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2451	I will take some overseeing assessments in this matter, because we have come a long way today in debates with many heavy issues. What is the starting point for this case is that we have important natural resources in Norwegian hands, and that is an important value in itself. It's done on a commercial basis, and while we've done this on a commercial basis, we've arranged for an arrondering room that can benefit other forest owners, which is thus useful for the industry and not just Statskog. In addition, we have been arranged for hunting, outdoor activities and fishing. So what this is all about is that we have acquired Norwegian natural resources on Norwegian hands for commercial terms, and at the same time provided for other positive things in relation to the arrondering room and in relation to outdoor life, fishing, etc. So the opposition is very busy with the price, but this is a price that is created in a market that the opposition is always very for in any other context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2462	Statskog's purchase of the companies Borregaard Skoger AS, Børresen AS and Borregaard Vafos AS from Orkla is the largest purchase of productive forest in Norway in recent times. The purchase strengthens the state forest as a forest owner and allows the company to develop further. This purchase will improve the arrears of State forest forest areas, provide the basis for better and more efficient forest management while providing greater flexibility in planning and implementing logging over time. Purchases also significantly expand the forest resource base of the enterprise and provide a basis for increased volume of harvests, while providing opportunities for new energy projects related to renewable and environmentally friendly energy. In addition, with this purchase, Statskog expands its basis to facilitate hunting, fishing and outdoor activities. The centre party believes it was important to secure this forest on Norwegian hands, so that the state through State Forest is guaranteed the right to have large and important natural resources of great importance to society. The centre party is concerned that the right of access is exercised in such a way that the resources are used for the best possible benefit of the community. This is in line with the government's ownership policy, such as: ensuring the right to dispose of the country’s large natural resources. The centre party is satisfied that the entity provides for a large arrears of scattered forest parcels from which the entity already owns, which will further strengthen the economy of the enterprise and, not least, allow local forest owners to strengthen the nutrient base of their properties. In the comments on the matter, it has been pointed out by the government parties that we are asking the government to assess the arrondering sale of forest doughs also in Nordland and Troms. I have clear expectations that the Minister of Agriculture will follow this point up with the company. The party considers it positive that, through its ownership of State Forest, the State gives the company the opportunity to carry out a property purchase of historical significance. We clearly believe that this is an investment for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2478	The purpose of national ownership of Statskog is to ensure efficient resource management for the benefit of society and to facilitate public hunting, fishing and outdoor services. The objective of the entity is to manage, operate and develop state forest and mountain areas and associated resources. The assets shall be operated effectively with a view to achieving a satisfactory economic result. The Christian People's Party believes that these reasons are taken care of by the purchase of the Borregaard forests, but we are sceptical at the price. State forest has entered into an agreement to purchase Orkla’s forest properties for SEK 1.7 billion. kr. It is a high sum for a property that has been estimated to have a much lower value. According to today's Economy, the three forest companies purchased by Statskog have an book value of 300 million. kr in Orkla's accounts. One reason why the market price is much higher than the concession price is that some factors that are not available during concession treatment, including: assumptions about future price growth. The Governing Board's rationale for the purchase is that it will strengthen Statskog's position as the leading forest owner in Norway, while providing opportunities to facilitate hunting, fishing, outdoor life and property and energy development. Therefore, the Board’s assessment is that the properties have a significant value potential in addition to the forest value of a long-term owner. We've focused on that in our assessment. Concentration of the enterprise’s forest properties provides a basis for efficient logging of forests, while increasing flexibility in planning and implementing logging over time. The purchase significantly expands the forest resource base of the enterprise and provides a basis for increased harvest volume. This, in turn, will lower the costs of harvesting and be a potential to negotiate increased prices in the market as a result of supply precision and security of supply. This is important. Today, Norway has protected approx. 1.8 pst. of the productive forest, while the experts recommend minimum protection of 4.6 pst. in the short term. As large properties as the state has secured, in the view of the Christian People's Party, must be able to make a significant contribution to this. In addition to the protection values, the State may be better able to follow the Storting decision that State Forest properties are to be offered as a make change, i.e. private owners of land who are protected by forest are offered other forests instead of money. With this purchase, the State has thus secured large areas of forest that can be protected both directly and indirectly. State forest, through its acquisition, will strengthen its strategic position in forestry, hunting and outdoors. After an overall assessment, the Christian People's Party has decided to support the government's proposals on capital increase and state loans to State Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2495	The majority also debated aspects of this case on 18 November of this year in the light of Interpellation No. 30 for 2010–2011, made by the representative of Gundersen. I then explained that Statskog SF has carried out a purely commercial assessment of the three companies Orkla put out for sale. The Orkla stock exchange notification shows that the sale took place following a broad process of high competition and several attractive bids. Before giving its consent to the SF’s investment decision, the Government, subject to the consent of the Stortingen, obtained an assessment of the SF’s investment plan, business plan, of the Arctic Securities company. Arctic Securities stated that the assessments State Forest had made are in line with how one could expect other commercial players to value the companies. I Prop. 11 S, capital increase and state loans to the State Forest SF, which are now under consideration, are explained in more detail. I am pleased that the majority of the Business Committee believes it is positive that the State, through its ownership of Statskog SF, gives the company the opportunity to carry out a property purchase that is of historical significance. Furthermore, I stress that the majority refers to business assessments that have been used for pricing. I have noticed that the majority are pleased that the company is adding up to a large arrunding sale of scattered forest land owned by the company before, and that the majority is asking the government to consider the arrunding sale of scattered land parcels also in Nordland and Troms. I have also noticed that the majority assumes that the revenue from the roundabout sale is used to disburse the government loan of 475 million. kr. I would like to take this into account when setting the return and dividend requirements for the enterprise, and – as indicated in the proposition – come back to the Storting with this in an appropriate way. The majority’s recommendation means that State forest is given the opportunity to carry out the largest purchase of productive forest in recent times. Through the further ownership management of the enterprise, I want to emphasise that the enterprise contributes to the creation of value added and social benefits. So this is an investment for the future. In view of that, it is difficult to understand why the Advancement Party and the Right are so little satisfied with this matter, and I quote: ‘It is an important district industry. It might be one of the industries that are present in most municipalities. It has a very potential.» And on the other hand, ‘It leads from primary production to export market, and it has a value creation that is in line with fish, i.e. breeding, and it has a profitability that competes well with fish.’ Who says that? It is, in fact, the representative of the Right, Gunnar Gundersen's words from the interpellation debate on 18 November this year. The representative Gundersen is among those in the Right who have things on the forest. From the point of view of Gundersen, there must be little reason to doubt that Statskog has made a reasonable purchase of forest, and I am amazed that the right representatives of the Committee do not show a greater understanding of this in the comments of the party. I must also comment that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right believe that the Stortinget has not received sufficient information on the matter, which is also underlined in recent articles. I am referring here to the fact that these Members: ‘can’t see that the Storting has received information through the proposition that makes it possible to determine whether the purchase of Borregård Forests from Orkla has been made on a commercial basis’. Firstly, in a letter dated 2 December of this year, I offered the Committee further information. In a case like this, not all information can be disclosed publicly without further notice. If the information were to flow to other operators related to forestry and land use in the areas of the companies concerned, they could benefit from this knowledge in order to obtain benefits for their own activities. If the Storting failed to agree to the purchase, open information could also be detrimental to Orkla's further work on the sale of the companies. I therefore stressed that the Committee would have to examine the documents in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which deal with professional secrecy. So this would mean that the documents were not made publicly available. The Committee has not responded to my offer of further information, and I therefore cannot see that there is a basis for these critical comments. Secondly, the Progress Party and the Right make a big number that this investment cannot be an investment that yields good returns. Then I have to show again that there is an assessment from a recognised consulting firm, Arctic Securities. They say, ‘It is our opinion that the State Forest SF has established relevant and acceptable assumptions for future prices, logging, operating costs and synergies related to the properties.’» They go on to say, ‘Furthermore, it is our opinion that the return requirements set are relevant and appropriate for this type of investment.’ And on the other hand, ‘Further, our assessment is that the value estimates made for the value of land, properties for sale, development projects and off-road resources are reasonable.’ And then finally they say, ‘In total, it is our opinion that the price of NOK 1,725 million, under the terms of the contract specified, is fair and in line with the other commercial operators, it can be expected to value the property at.’ So I'm satisfied with the committee's attitude and proposal for a decision. This has been a thorough process. With this purchase, state forests will expand their forest-based value creation base.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2549	As for the so-called invitation from the Council of State that he would respond if he was required to respond, he can talk to his own members in the committee about why he did not receive that enquiry. Instead, the Council of State received a number of questions to which he was asked to answer. The answers you got there were not enough to form the image you wanted. The Council of State itself pointed out in its contribution to the assessment made by outsiders. It just says the following: ‘Further, our assessment is that the value estimates made for the value of land, properties for sale, development projects and off-road resources are reasonable.’ Furthermore, the term ‘fair’ appears in the next section on contractual terms and conditions. The question at least some parties to the Storting have asked for an answer is what is underlying the evaluation itself. Both the Progress Party and the Right wanted a closed meeting to assess these things. So you didn't get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2561	As I stressed in the interpellation debate that we had on 18 November, the forest value is the largest proportion of the total value. The forest resource underpinning the valuation is based on extensive tax assessments carried out in 2010, i.e. this year. This taxing work has shown a significantly larger resource base than the seller himself has used in its historical crop strategy. There are specialists who have assisted State Forest in that work. It's Dr. Kåre Hobbelstad, it's Nettskog, and it's GeoData. These are the top specialists we have in this area. In addition, the conclusions, the plans presented by Statskog, are controlled by a recognised brokerage firm, Arctic Securities, which says that the assessments made here are fair and seem commercially correct. It is difficult not to trust such a comprehensive and good process in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2568	In terms of valuation, the Storting can't give its assessment of it, because we actually don't know anything about it. We have to assume that what's meant is "fair", as it says in the text itself. There is no consideration of what others have bid for. It is possible that this information has not been obtained, but at least my question to the Council of State is as follows: In the valuation that has been made, has it been assumed that the whole forest, the whole property, will be viable, or have you taken out the piece that is not commercially viable? Then there is a question to the Council of State that he should at least answer: Has the state set a value on outdoor life, hunting rights, etc. in addition, so that it is also part of this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2577	It's true, as the representative Nesvik says, that there are parts of the area purchased that are not propellable as a traditional forest area. I just want to stress that when the experts I just mentioned have gone through the areas available, there has been an assessment of the forest value of the areas where there is forest. That of course means that they have evaluated the total forest value. It is the forest value that has essentially changed the valuation. So it's -- that's absolutely right -- the addition of other elements that are part of the total value of a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2582	The Council of State shall issue a number of reports to the Committee. The point is that we are the Storting and the National Assembly. We need information that we can use openly. We can't sit in the closed rooms, like Councillor Breck does, and evaluate profitability, business and returns. It brings me to the reply, namely, about the return requirement, which we do not know, as the Council of State has said, will be reconsidered in some future, but which probably has already been assessed. Because that's the critical point when you're going to say whether it's business or not. I would like the Council to say something about its thoughts on this, as well as on how he assesses the possible new return requirement that comes, in relation to what is now the return requirement, in relation to, for example, the return requirement. concession prices for the purchase of forest property.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2589	I have been concerned that the information the Committee wants should, of course, be available. But it's actually so that there are some rules in relation to this type of transaction that you have to follow, and we've been very careful to follow them in this case. If one were to go more closely into individual items, it would have been necessary to sign a taushet statement. I understand the need for the Fleet to have an open information, but I also hope that I understand the need for you to make the kind of assessments that have been made on a commercial basis. Regarding the return claim, I will return to Stortinget with it in an appropriate manner later. I will not comment on this in addition to the fact that Statskog intends to operate on a commercial basis, and that is still to be done. With regard to the issue of concession pricing, I would just like to stress that here Stateskog has acted as a buyer in a market where one has priced the purchase in a competitive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2598	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2603	The case does not apply if this is a commercially profitable purchase, but it concerns issues of capital increase and State loans to the State Forest SF. Since there is a purchase that concerns Borregaard Forests organised as a limited liability company, the concession law is not possible. It is one of the big holes that are in today's concession law, and that must be sealed as soon as possible to avoid the discussion that the Right Party and the Advance Party are drawing up here, namely that one says this is not commercially profitable. So one wants to have a price on the forest in the future that should be based on business criteria – a good principle, which I'm going to get closer to. What is therefore the rule of law today is that the highest bids are awarded. The Committee has received a letter from the Minister of Agriculture dated 2 December this year, saying that the consultant for Statskog, Arctic Securities by Jon Gunnar Pedersen, says that one has assessed the price to be ‘in line with the other commercial actors can be expected to value the property’. Elegantly said – very elegantly said. What other actors can be expected to value the property is in good Norwegian the price that others are willing to pay for the property. That's the system that we're facing here. Only the State can raise the necessary capital to secure the social interests of 1.1 million dean, of which 756,000 dean are productive. It's a good purchase in the sense that it's right in relation to what could have been the option. But the price is too high for what is the value in use — what is the commercial return on it. I fully agree with the opposition, but that is not the issue here today. The centre party wanted a solution other than that it was Statskog SF who was going to buy it. We wanted primarily that it was the forestry cooperative that could buy it, as they have been given the opportunity to sell it at other large forest sales, where one so sells it to active marine operators, who use it as active forest users. The view of the centre party on the price question is that the value in use is the basis for the concession price. Forestry is the use of forests, it shall be profitable to work in the forest, it shall be profitable to plant, it shall be profitable to thin, and it shall be profitable to harvest in a gentle manner. There is something that would be impossible to do with free pricing. Everyone, including the representative, Gundersen, knows that very well. Arronding sales are important. I hope the Council of State will ensure that it starts immediately and is implemented during this large-scale period, at concession prices under the concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2619	I have to say that it's rare I hear someone drawing as strange conclusions of their own statements as Lundtigen. Is there something that demonstrates that the market actually appreciates those who have invested in the forest, have harvested in a reasonable way, that's exactly what he says: that there were many actors who were looking to buy Borregaard Forests. Borregaard Forester is very well driven. It has invested higher than almost any other property in Norway, I think. There are well-stocked forests, and they got a fantastic price – that’s exactly what’s the point. When I read the majority position, I wondered if you had actually gone into the entertainment industry, because it says, among other things. that the forest ‘has a significant value potential beyond the forest value itself’. In a market you actually want to include all the values in a forest value. So what you've done here is you're going to consider it based on the price that the concession law requires everyone else to use, and then you're going to say that it produces a value that's far lower than what the market really wants to value the property at. What the majority say is that we obviously take away all the other private owners in Norway the values that the state now pays Orkla Borregaard for, and there are some strange conclusions that Lundtigen draws. If we look at Statskog's purchase of Borregaard, it's a purchase that has all the winning features in it for the red-green government. I have heard arguments that we must, of course, prevent the Swedish border from moving westwards, and this with the public approach, where the fleet so well illustrated all the misconceptions that are out there. I have seen investigations that show that nine out of ten end up with this purchase, but then one has managed to close it down by going in and starting to defend it with commercial terms. Business conditions have been defined by the State. It's 4 pst., and when you don't even dare in the proposition to specify the return requirements you have to judge the board in Statskog, it's quite amazing. I would say that there is a board that would have done well for hanging, if you had specified a return claim here. It is so obvious to everyone else that this is – as Svein Flätten said – a purely political purchase. Had you said that, we could of course have said that we disagreed, and you wouldn't have gotten all this fictitious discussion about business terms, because it's not based on what the state itself has defined as business terms for everyone else. I do not understand that the Minister of Agriculture does not see the consequences in relation to both private purchases and expropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2630	Just a couple of little things to clarify. First of all, I never think I put it this way in my first post that it was a good economic purchase, and if I have said so, I have no reason to assess it there. But I think it comes out from the record that I haven't actually said that. What we're always thinking about is what's coming out of the proposition, and what the board emphasizes. What we're assuming is that the purchase is based on business terms. It's in the proposition and it's illuminated as an appropriation from the board. What I said was that overall, this is a good purchase. There's something quite different than what Nesvik's got for me. So it's been a little round of this with insight. I think the fleet to the extent justified it well. The size is part of an open room. That's what he really wanted to use more knowledge about. What may be the cause of the debate on transparency or one is that there were some members of the committee who wanted to be fully transparent and presented with the evidence on which the board made its decision. In principle, the majority of the committee found it difficult to accept the responsibility of the board, not least the government and the Council of State. That's the reason for that, without further polishing around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2639	I needed to comment on the comments of the representative, Gundersen. He said that here we were facing well-placed forests that provided the basis for a high price. I fully agree that there are well-managed forests, where there has been a considerable amount of good and comprehensive intelligible effort for many decades. It is, however, that when selling forest, it is too little to be seen whether the forest is well-hauled or not. The price difference between well-hauled forest and unwell-hauled forest is far less than the cost that has been introduced into a well-hauled forest versus that which has not been introduced into a non-well-hauled forest. Why is that? Yes, because we are here for the purchase and sale of a scarcely good. There'll be more and more buyers of forest, but there won't be a larger area that can be sold. It is a natural resource that is likely to gain greater value in the future, but which, at present, returns are low due to prices of renewable carbon, which are extremely low in competition with the non-renewable carbon. So the representative, Gundersen, said that this case shows which values are taken away when you get into the concession system, versus having free pricing. In a sense, I agree with that point. That's what it shows. But then the question is, why do we have our system? Why do we have our concession pricing system? Well, because it's society's job to balance the interests between the parties, who are the buyer and the seller. The size has been the sole responsibility for the interests of the buyer. After all, it is the buyer who will manage the property in the future. If the buyer pays a price that is completely independent of what income is given by managing the property, well, then we'll get a management of the property that's not in the interests of society, because we get a distance ownership and a company ownership that we don't want in Norway. Therefore, the concession pricing system is a glittering system, which ensures the balancing of interests. Non-concession is the highest price of ownership – it is historically primitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2650	It's good that we have the opportunity to discuss forest in Stortinget, that's important. It is also an important industry, as many have said in this debate and also in previous debates. I just want to repeat that this valuation, although the one of different representatives in this room is said not to be based on business principles, it is assessed to be such of all those who have gone through the case. I have to be allowed to underline what I said in the lines, that here there is a new taxing of the forest, a re-axing that was done in 2010, and that was not reflected in the original prospectus that Orkla let out when they were going to sell these forests. This re-acknowledgement is only for those who have been in the process, who have had the opportunity to go into it, and of course it is difficult for those who are outside and have no detailed knowledge of it. But I would like to stress that this re-examination, this valuation, has been carried out by independent actors who have great competence in this area and who are of the highest competence we have in the country. I would also like to stress that when Statskog is now going to work on this matter, they will of course operate the forest on a commercial basis. When Statskog is going to make a roundabout sale, it is going to be done in line with what the Storting here decides, and I am very concerned to follow up the comments and the points of view that the Committee has raised and which are then voted on in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2659	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2675	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2691	Case No. Paragraph 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure has been left out of committee. For this matter, there is no proposal for speaking time, but the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2702	The Party considers that the short-term removal of the customs duty will strengthen the Norwegian food industry and trade and secure Norwegian jobs and significantly counteract the trade leakage that would otherwise have occurred in December due to the lack of access to meat in the food shops in Norway, including in particular Christmas ribs. We assume that such a change will guarantee that all residents of Norway who want it have an opportunity to buy Christmas ribs, and not least at a reasonable and consumer-friendly price. I have to say that I almost jumped in the chair when, on Wednesday 30 November, I heard Minister of Agriculture Brerk at NRK Vestfold say that he reacted to the low rib price that was used as bait in the shops. So the Council of State came up with the following statement: it may be appropriate to set a lower price limit on food. Furthermore, state councils stated that we are concerned that consumers should be faced with proper prices. The Minister of Agriculture also considers that according to the opinion on cheap ribs can be banned throughout the Kingdom. Nortura sat in September this year with a stock of 4,800 tons of pork. Then the price war started on the rib, and the stocks went empty in record time. This is evidence that if the market forces are controlled, there is no risk of destroying the meat. If you set the price of eggs, you would also not risk making egg doses of the heavy eggbergs that are in stock. But what did the government do there? They set up the price of eggs. Yes, there is a clear distance between life and learning! The market regulator Nortura has exported or, in good Norwegian, dumped nearly 2 000 tonnes of pigmeat to Ukraine for well under 10 DKK per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg. The government of Stoltenberg and his Tordenskiold soldiers in Stortinget are more concerned with subsidising cheap food to Ukraine. This is socialist policy at its best: give the world cheap meat, and let Ola and Kari the North pay the bill! My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State guarantee that Norway will not now import the meat they have dumped into Ukraine, back to Norway, so that the taxpayers in Norway will have to pay the bill twice? I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance to ensure that Norwegian taxpayers do not go to Ukraine to buy cheap Norwegian meat that they have already paid for through the agricultural settlement. The Progress Party asked questions to the Swedish Minister for Cooperation Ewa Bjørling at the last session in Reykjavik. There we asked the following questions: ‘Norway is probably one of the countries in the world with the most protectionist policies for imports of food from other countries, including our neighbouring countries in the Nordic region. I could imagine how the Swedish government views such a significant barrier. And: Is this something the Swedish Minister for Cooperation intends to address with the Norwegian Minister for Cooperation?’ The answer to Ewa Bjørling was as follows: « I see, of course, that it is a major barrier to having agricultural duties on, in some cases, up to 124% for some dairy products and some meat products between Sweden and Norway. [[...]] I have also mentioned the example of the fact that we soon have a free trade agreement between the EU and South Korea in place which makes it cheaper to trade food between Sweden and South Korea than it is with our closest neighbour that is the country with which most of our small Swedish companies want their first export contact. It's a question we're driving from the Swedish side. I have also seen some progress from the Norwegian side. But I think we could sit down and talk more about this in order to remove the obstacles." It would have been a little interesting to hear the finance minister's opinion on this, when we're kind of compared to South Korea, and we have neighboring countries that we can't deal with. How does the Minister of Finance view this? Does he look at any measures to clean this up? There is only one thing I want to correct in what the Swedish Minister of Cooperation said. She said that the milk duty is 124 pst. That's not true. It's actually on the fainting 388 pst. So here you've been completely wrong. I am now waiting with excitement for the answer from the Minister of Finance before possibly asking for the floor again after hearing his reply. I am addressing the proposal that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2738	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the proposal he referred to. The proposal contained in the document will be the voting theme in case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2743	Just very briefly to justify why we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal. It's not because we're against cheaper ribs. Nor is it because, under given conditions, we are opposed to reducing customs duties, but it is a greater work. We have a system in Norway with market regulation, and that's exactly what the market regulator Nortura has been in here. Now we don't agree that Nortura is the market regulator, but we are in order for it to be a market regulation, perhaps in an independent system. At least what we're not for is that the Storting should be the market regulator. That is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2750	The case does not concern ribs, it concerns the removal of customs duties on imports of meat, all meat, between 6 and 31. of December 2010. Obviously, this is a completely logical proposal from the Progress Party. It is in line with what the Progress Party is recognisable of. There are, of course, no quantitative limits in the proposal, and it will probably lead to a completely different price level for meat, not only in December, but in large parts of 2011, and that is the point. The progress team wants the meat prices to be such that it becomes natural to get the look that we've had lately, namely that ribs go to the bikkja. That's now the one part of it. The second is that the price level of those who produce the meat remains at a level, so that it becomes economically uninteresting to do so. I am pleased that the Right is taking away from the proposal, and I believe that the Progress Party will hear more about the consequences of their proposal in the food industry that has so far smelled at the policy of the Progress Party, because they will soon learn that this, to those degrees, is contrary to the interests of the food industry. What we're talking about here is getting a production in line with what's sold in Norway. The Norwegian system is based on an import protection that provides a ceiling on which prices can be charged for primary production, but there is no flooring in that price. That system is, of course, entirely dependent on the fact that there is a balance between production and consumption, and it is not least the agricultural contracting parties and the responsibility of the Stortinge to ensure it. If it was not to happen for a shorter period, yes, then a mechanism that ensures the whole of this production, in the same way as in working life, has the security mechanisms that exist in terms of leave and leave. So it's a model based on a balance of interests. But Stortinget has the overall responsibility to ensure that food production in Norway is proportionate to sales. If not, there will be costs, either for consumers or for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2761	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fooding, see page 1911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2777	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2786	In the case that we are dealing with today, there are many repetitions from the financial debate earlier this fall. I shall certainly not start that debate again, but I have a brief comment. I notice that when all four civil parties come together in a common note on taxes, they claim that there are very few who say that: ‘tax relief is ‘free’ for the country, that is to say, the proceeds received by the State through tax relief in its entirety are equivalent to increased tax revenue generated by the increased activity created by the initial tax deduction’. I think that's an interesting remark. The latest tax reform will be evaluated next year, and it will provide us with a good opportunity to discuss fiscal policy in its entirety. I am reasonably sure that the fiscal policy we have put in place after 2005 will show that we have got a fairer tax system. I am confident that the Minister of Finance will ensure that there will be a broad evaluation, which also meets the opposition’s wish to assess ‘the short- and long-term dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth’. Otherwise, I have no comments other than that the Workers' Party supports the proposition as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2802	I looked yesterday evening at how the debates relating to this matter have progressed over the last five to six years. I think I can safely say that there have been sprawling and different topics that have been in focus, and often – or at least sometimes – a debate that has taken a little off. I'm going to try not to contribute this year. So I was going to deal especially with the suggestions I have a little hope of perhaps getting a little more support from other parties in this room. The first proposal is what we have with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. The word is: ‘The government is asked to reduce a professionally based sample assessing the short and long-term dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. The committee shall look at both national and international experience. The conclusions shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the 2012 State Budget.’;» This is something that the previous debater also spoke about. Especially in the light of the debate of the last weeks, and not least in the last 24 hours, as far as I heard on radio, where the government itself admits that there are dynamic effects of reduced taxes, I hope – as it is Christmas and the government parties often like to establish samples to investigate – that the proposal can have a majority in the course of this case. The Progress Party also has another proposal that focuses on dynamic effects, but which we are currently alone on: ‘The government is asked to assess other areas of the government budget where it is appropriate to adjust the figures to take account of dynamic effects, such as in road investment, hospital treatment, measures promoting the supply of work, or other changes that may have a positive impact on the Norwegian economy and income or cost savings for the country.’ We also have a number of proposals that will make government authorities more effective, and not least make it easier for most people. I'm not going to mention all of these, but I was going to mention at least one of them, which sounds like this: ‘The Government is asked to amend the legislation so that travellers do not have to take out transit baggage for re-checking on further domestic voyages. Hold baggage must be able to be handled/checked without necessarily physical connection between passenger and hold baggage.» We are promoting this because it turns out that the Norwegians who come from abroad to an airport in Norway, who are going to fly domestically, have to pick up the baggage at the first stop in Norway and then check it in again to travel domestically. This has been known in some media lately and has also created a lot of frustration in business. This scheme takes a long time for travellers and helps to increase the number of queues. It loads Avinor's systems more than necessary. The number of passengers belonging to this group of transit is approximately: 20 pst. We know that many passengers drop their luggage and leave when there are delays. The baggage must therefore be transferred by the carrier, which means additional work and increased costs for the carriers. For business and travel in the districts, large parts of the local population, today’s system means an unnecessary distance away from Europe and the rest of the world. That is why we are promoting this proposal. Finally, I should like to mention proposal No. 8, concerning the tax agreement between Poland and Norway. The tax agreement means that Polish seafarers on Norwegian ships in the NIS register become taxable to Poland. This was not a problem from the Ministry of Finance when the matter was presented to us in Stortinget, and the consequence could be that ships are flagged out of the NIS register. The Agreement should therefore be amended – at least the date of entry into force of the relevant provisions should be postponed – in order to prevent such adverse effects. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is or is with others on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2833	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions that he referred to, and those to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2836	The issues that lie in this position have been largely discussed in the past, in the financial debate, so I limit myself to referring to the financial debate and the vote, and address the proposals where the Right is the proposer or the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2841	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2844	I also have to be brief; I only have two points. These are proposals and comments relating to investment aid for environmentally friendly technologies. There, government parties have had a very pointed comment that shows that a desire to stimulate private companies where pilot and demonstration facilities and associated commercialisation of technology are crucial. In concrete terms, it is said that it is essential that the applicant companies have the capacity to implement and that technology is linked to different disciplines. I had hoped that the opposition could also give its support to the rated setting that we have at that point. It has been met with joy in the private business, because it is unique, it is operational, and it extends forward in time. I think it would have been wiser than an ever-promoting proposal for a higher fund in some areas, as the Right Party also does in this context. So just a brief comment on what's going on at the closure of tax offices. NTL Tax has reminded us, in contact with the Finance Committee, that one here has to pay attention to employee participation and in the sense of, and which offices can be closed in the event, and that the local government, with its political leadership, is also involved, so that one contributes to it. A change in the structure of offices in the field of equality also affects the information given to municipalities, as they continue and are legally responsible for the municipal tax collection role. I hope that the ministry can be flexible in relation to the process that is now coming, because there are quite different assessments of the extent to which there is a forward-looking or non-future transition, and we see that there are other ways of doing this that seem less centralizing than what is in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2855	Like Jan Tore Sanner, I just want to refer to the financial debate and to the issues and challenges facing the Christian People's Party. I will be very careful to promote the proposal that the Christian People's Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2860	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2863	This was an exemplary card. I'm going to spend a little more time, I hope you can handle that. I would like to present the Left's proposal in the vote. These are mainly about adding more capital to the Research Fund, the Cultural Memory Fund and the Renewable Fund. We believe that this is essential in order to make targeted efforts in areas that are very important for the Left in terms of research, preservation of cultural memories and, in particular, the development of renewable energy. The government and government parties' proposals for the 2011 Research Fund will in reality result in less return in the years to come, and that is of course regrettable. For the Left, it is important to focus on the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business. An important instrument in such a commitment is our proposal to create a new government body/investment company, Climate Change, which aims to invest in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly conversion of existing businesses. The company is based on the same guidelines as national seed funds under Innovation Norway, i.e. that an investment capital of 1 billion is added up. kr, of which the State contributes 500 million. SEK and private investors with 500 million. kr. In addition, I want to spend only a little time on an area that takes me and the Left, namely international trade in CO2 quotas. The government has come to Stortinget every year with a very fresh proposal for a decision on the purchase of CO2 allowances. Every year, the accounts have shown that this has been unrealistic budgeting, which has no effect other than decorating the government's environmental and climate budget. At the same time, the sale of CO2 allowances has been implemented as planned. In total, this has resulted in Norway and the Norwegian central bank making a lot of money on turnover and pollution, while the opposite was the intention – not least the intention of the climate agreement. It is therefore essential that this is put on track as soon as possible. I stress that the Left is not a fundamental opponent of emissions trading, but believes that the government has added up to a level of sales and purchases that is not particularly environmental and climate friendly. It is appropriate to point out the obvious paradox that by deleting allowances rather than selling them in the market, the government could have contributed to a significant decline in Europe’s greenhouse gas emissions at a relatively low price. I also point out that the Left in its alternative state budget is concerned that the restructuring of the tax rate takes place in such a way that there is a more sensible and appropriate closure of tax offices. This was also the representative of Lundtigen, so I expect him to fix it in the government. I also show that the Left proposed to do something about the very aggressive charging and collection policy of public creditors, including. in the case of a delay fee. This is something that primarily affects people with large payment problems, usually defined as poor. The left therefore proposed to reduce these fees by 25 pst, or equivalent to a reduction in revenue of 56,2 million. kr. I'm finally taking up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2894	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1912]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2912	I'm not going to extend the meeting. I know that everyone is interested in going to the Christmas table and eating toll-coated ribs. But I just thought I would remind you that we have now entered into between 30 and 40 tax agreements. We had a tax agreement with Poland that had unfortunate consequences for Norwegian business. It is such that these tax agreements are concluded very quickly and are ratified very quickly in the Storting and that the relevant industries affected by these tax agreements are not heard through hearings. You can't expect industries to follow what the government adopts at any time. It is only when things start to be consulted that they have the opportunity to respond to the consequences for their industry. The agreement we are about to adopt here today applies between Norway and Switzerland and probably does not affect so many directly. But there may be agreements in the future, and perhaps agreements we've been dealing with, which have greater consequences. So the board of the Progress Party for the future is that the government takes a little longer and involves the parties that are affected by agreements, without us voting against any agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2919	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1922]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2936	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1922]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2944	Then Stortinget would be ready to go to voting in the case no. 2-11 on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e2954	A total of 31 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-8, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal 9, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, on the proposals No. 10-26, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 27, from Svein Flätten, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals 28-30, from Rigmor Andersen Eide, on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 31, from Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 30 is included on s. 79-80 in the vote, while proposal No. 31 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a separate package of measures for grass-based livestock farming in the districts with targeted investment funds in order to maintain multiple uses in operation.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to reintroduce the stockpiling of cereals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3002	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that proposals be made to remove the restrictions on the number of members of a joint venture, to abolish the maximum distance between farms forming part of the same joint venture and to allow joint ventures to lease allowances.’ The Progress Party and the Left have notified that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3019	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to make sure that ships in NIS are able to take orders to and from installations on a Norwegian base.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3034	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–14, 16–19 and 22–26, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to propose an extension of the Argentum model with fund-in-fund investments to three new funds.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose a statutory fully-fledged net pay scheme for seafarers and to present this proposal to the Stortinge during 2011.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government requests, in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget for 2011, to submit proposals that the reimbursement amount of the net salary scheme for seafarers be adjusted for the wage and price increases that have taken place since the introduction of the scheme with a ceiling of DKK 198 000.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy for red tape on the framework conditions of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The strategy will be presented during the 1st half of 2011.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests a review of the excise duty burden imposed on the fisheries and aquaculture industry for the purpose of cleaning up and reduction.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to abolish the ownership restrictions for the aquaculture industry.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking to facilitate growth in the aquaculture industry through the establishment of new free concessions.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy for better coordination of marine research with the fishing industry so that the needs of the industry are more focused than is the case today. The strategy will be presented during the 1st half of 2011.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the slaughter of tamrein on Finnmarksvidda is initiated in order to avoid major animal diseases beyond the winter.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The government is asked by the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to instruct the company immediately to plan a larger arrears sale of the forest properties and other real estate State forest SF owns today.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the announced agricultural message becomes a message that takes care of the whole value chain.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to terminate the agricultural agreement in its present form and to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year, so that future negotiations can enter into the budgetary process.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a notification of flooding during 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3112	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 15, 20 and 21, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for changes to the innovation instruments of Norway, making them more nationwide and accessible to all applicants.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the Law on Raw Fish and the Act on Participation for the purpose of modernisation and simplification.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the export quota for fish and fishery products from sport fishing.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3147	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government through the Innovation Norway mission document for 2011 to ensure that 20 million are set aside. krona of the Innovation Furniture programme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3162	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-8, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønn Island Health Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the self-financing principle during 2011.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the reindeer management agreement to follow the calendar year and the entry of the negotiations as part of the budgetary process.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for the red tape of the agricultural industry’s framework conditions presented during 2011.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive work on the development of niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the competitive aspects of the current system of agricultural information offices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3205	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a cost overview of the revised national budget for 2011 and a drive forward plan to stop pollution from the closed mines in Sulitjelma.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that fees are not levied in such a way as to destroy the nutritional basis of the Norwegian shellfish industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3227	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 31, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget agrees that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade of the State Budget for 2011 may make the purchase of shares of Norsk Hydro ASA subject to an unassigned cap. 950 Government ownership management, item 96 Shares. The authorisation shall apply until the country’s holding has reached 39,9 per cent.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e3242	It shall now be consulted on the position of the Committee under A, Framework Area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e4818	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e4831	It shall be consulted on the position of the Committee under B, Framework Section 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e5340	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e5354	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee in the framework area 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e6632	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e7177	The Committee's suspension of expenditure and revenue with its underlying chapters, with the exception of Chapters, is the first to be contested. 1151.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e7188	It is then voted over the committee's attitude to the chapter. 1151. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e7206	In the course of the debate Svein Flätten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2010 State budget amends as follows: Cape.PostFormsCroner950Administration of state ownership95 Capital injections, is cleared by 14,000,000’» [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e7980	The Committee's position under I, with the exception of the chapter, shall be contested first. 5656.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e7991	It is then voted on the Committee's position at Chapter I. 5656. The right has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8005	It shall then vote on the position of the Committee under II, III and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8019	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government through its ownership of Statskog SF to instruct the company immediately to plan a larger arrears sale of the forest properties and other real estate State forest SF owns today.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8125	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8274	It is voted on by the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal and Jørund Rytman. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the removal of the customs duty on imported meat for the period from 6 December to 31. December 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8293	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2-9, by Jørund Rytman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 10, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 11, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 12, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 13, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 is authorised under: 286Research Fund95Fundamental capital - Research and Innovation Fund73 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural memory fund90Fundamental capital200 000 0001825Reconversion of energy use and energy production95Fundamental capital5 000 000 000 0002410 State loan fund for education90Increased loans and interest payments, estimate appropriations18 084 949 0002425Climate investments91Investment capital500 000 0002490NVE Facility90Increased loans and interest payments, forecast appropriations195 100000» The voting boards showed that 98 votes were cast against the proposal and 2 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.39.02]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8541	I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8546	Then we've found the culprit! The proposal was then put to the vote and voted against 99. The result is the same, the proposal has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8553	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 is authorised under: Expenditure10Equipment State resources96Strengthened equity State resources4 000 000 000161Industry development95NORFund - basic fund capital in investments in developing countries657 250 000286Research fund95Fundamental capital - Research and innovation fund28 000 000 000950Management of state ownership91Increased equity in State resources1 000 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural memory fund90Innovation of energy use and energy production20 000 0001825Introduction of renewable energy and energy efficiency95Grunn Fund for renewable energy and energy efficiency15 000 000 000 000 000 0002412The House Bank90Loans from the House Bank, statement of estimates16 374 600 0002426SIVA SF90Loans, statement of estimates155 000 000 00095SIVA - support for infrastructure for rural industrial development25 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e8865	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 is authorised under: Expenditure286Research fund95Fundamental capital - Research and innovation fund13 000 000 00096Fundamental capital - Scientific equipment fund5 000 0001330Specific transport measures95Infrastructure funds, capital contributions50 000 000 000 0001432Norwegian cultural memory fund95Capital depositsNorwegian cultural memory fund100 000 000 0001441Climate and pollution directoratet90Found for environmentally friendly technology, capital contributions5 000 0001833CO2management95Capital deposits CLIMIT1 000 000 000 000 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e9088	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised 2011 national budget, to provide an assessment of the effect of fully or partially eradicating climate allowances rather than selling them in the market compared to earmarking the benefit of the allowances sale to other emission reduction measures, and to propose either a reduction in allowances or a designation of sales gains for climate action.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e9103	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–9, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2011 is authorised under: Expenditure286Research fund95Fundamental capital — Research and innovation fund13 000 0001321Infrastructure fund95Capital deposits60 000 0001825Investment of energy use and energy production95Capital deposits5 000 000 0001830Research95Research fund10 000 000 0002410 State loan fund for education90Increased loans and interest payments, estimate allocation17 927 349 000Incomes4533Competition90Delivery of the common people's fund80 000 0004540National minorities90Delivery of the Roman people's fund88 000 000» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a government budgeting system in which the Storting may adopt the budget items for several years at a time’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on how the resources of customs authorities can be better used to stop organised crime and organised smuggling at the border.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the legislation so that travellers do not have to take out transit baggage for re-checking on further domestic voyages. Hold baggage must be able to be handled/checked without necessarily physical connection between passenger and hold baggage.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to set up a working group to review the rules on travel billing for the purpose of simplification.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the inclusion of toll costs, heavy-duty tyres and ferry costs in the template rules for a company car covered by the employer.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take action to adjust the tax agreement between Poland and Norway so that Polish seafarers in the NIS register do not become taxable in Poland.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess other areas of the government budget where it is appropriate to adjust the figures to take account of dynamic effects, such as in road investment, hospital treatment, measures promoting the supply of work, or other changes that may have a positive impact on the Norwegian economy and income or cost savings for the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e9431	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party, Right. Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce a professionally based sample assessing the short and long-term dynamic effects of reduced taxes on labour and wealth. The committee shall look at both national and international experience. The conclusions shall be submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the 2012 State Budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e9446	We will now vote on the suspension of the decision, but first the President will have to make a correction under capital C, lower case b: Here Roman number VI is deleted, as it has entered the setting in case of an incursion. The numbering of subsequent Roman numerals will be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e12862	There is a vote on the proposals of the Progress Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 9 December 2010: ‘The Government asks the EU to negotiate with it the existing Parliament and Council Directive amending Directives 2006/48 and 2006/49 and the provisions on remuneration with a view to preventing, as far as possible, restrictions on the freedom of contract and the intervention in market mechanisms when implementing the Directives in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-15.ana.ud2398e12885	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
