ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e123	Just as an information from the President, the first eight cases on today's map are second-hand legal proceedings. The President intends to ask for them to be dealt with first, so that they can join the Council of State later today. Then it might be an advantage that we wait in the hall until we get there on the agenda. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Erling Sande on parental leave from 3 January to 29 May from the representative of Mr Torgeir Micasen on parental leave from 5 January to 15 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Kjell Børre Hansen from 11 January to 15 April For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Knut Magnus Olsen from 11 January to 27 May
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e161	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e164	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Ingjerd Schou, Arve Kambe, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Erna Solberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to strengthen privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e169	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e172	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I want to promote a proposal on the National Museum of the Future and a democratic treatment of the fate of the National Gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e177	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e180	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose measures to ensure greater scope for action and predictability of children's and youth's freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e185	The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e189	On behalf of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to empower the government to reduce VAT on electricity and electricity in periods of exceptionally high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e194	Finally, the representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e197	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Dagrun Eriksen, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I am delighted to propose a proposal for 20 measures to counter a new financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e202	All representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e220	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 1991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e236	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 1991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e252	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 1991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e268	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 1991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e284	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 1991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e300	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 1991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e316	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e332	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e342	There are no proposals for comments, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e356	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votering, see page 2018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e373	I had a moment's hope that the whole Stortinget would be present during the treatment of the National Audit Office's 2009 report, but there was something else that triggered the tension here, I understand. Let me thank the Committee for good cooperation in the work on this setting. Extensive work has been done both by the National Audit Office and by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. This year, the Committee has asked more than 50 questions to the Councils in their work on the nomination. There are about the same number of questions that were asked last year. Of course, during the work on Document 1, it is often the most negative conditions that are given the most attention. This should also be the case, but it is appropriate to recall that there is largely sound management of public funds in Norway. There are 226 final audit letters issued by the National Audit Office and 21 of the final audit letters have been commented on. For Nav, it has also gone so bad in 2009 that the National Audit Office has not been able to confirm that the accounts do not contain significant errors and deficiencies. I'll come back to it something later. I would also like to say that the job that the Riksaudition does with annual reporting is important. It is one of the founding obligations of the Storting to exercise control over the executive. Through the examination of Document 1, Stortinget deals with the whole of how the executive has managed the funds put at its disposal and how a relationship with basic accounting control principles and the exercise of the management role of departments. I would therefore like to thank the National Audit Office for its thorough work as a basis for the monitoring of the Grand Duchy in this area. In general, there are still some challenges related to the ministry’s ability to deal with risk management as an integral part of target and performance management. It also appears that compliance with the rules on tenders remains a major challenge and is being overly broken in a number of stages. Several departments fail very strongly in terms of ICT security, and there have been again serious failures in ICT security, which recently resulted in large numbers of documents except publicity flowing out of the ICT systems of the departments and the country in the hands of unknown hackers. This is very serious and it is not acceptable that the State's ICT systems are so poorly ensured that they cannot be confident that the stored information is protected against this type of data intrusion. It is too weak that this has not been cleaned up a long time ago. The national audit has pointed out these deficiencies on several occasions in the past. We are aware that some of this has happened after 2009, but that the warnings have not been taken seriously much earlier, are critical. The Committee has also sent a letter, completely independent of Document 1, to the responsible department relating to the revelations made in this field following the submission of Document 1. I am responsible for the matter before the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. At the Prime Minister's office everything appears in its best order. Neither the Riksrevision nor the Committee had any comments relating to the Prime Minister's office. That's good. In the case of the Ministry of Knowledge, there are 48 final audit letters, three of which have comments. It is critical that the Sami College, the School of Architecture and Design in Oslo, as well as the Norwegian Institute of Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing, have stood up to receive final audit letters with a note. In addition, several universities and colleges are struggling financially, because they have spent more money than what has been allocated to them. It is important that the Ministry in its governance dialogue with the university and higher education sectors is clear in its expectation that budgetary frameworks are largely respected. In one area, the Committee's position differs somewhat from that of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office has pointed out that many academic staff in the university and higher education sectors have a number of responsibilities in addition to their work for a university or a higher education institution. The National Audit Office fears that this could lead to a worse outcome for the principal, i.e. the university or college, and that they could be harmed. However, the Committee agrees with the Ministry of Knowledge that it is desirable that scientific staff also be involved in this type of activity, but assumes that there are procedures in place that contribute to preventing any role and sustainability conflicts. However, it is worth noting that there is a significant breach of procurement law in the UH sector. The Committee has pointed out that it has been criticised in the past as well, and one must assume that the department ensures that it cleans up these conditions without further delay. I would like to mention so briefly a matter which the Committee dealt with separately under document 1 for 2008 and said it would follow up. This was a specific case of staffing at the University of Bergen. The Committee has pursued this matter further in relation to the Council of State and, following the follow-up, the Committee has concluded that it will not follow this forward. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has received 10 final audit letters without notice. However, the National Audit Office has criticised the Ministry for the lack of follow-up to ICT security. The Committee, at its own expense, has taken up the relationship between the duration of the proceedings of the Patent Board and invited the National Audit Board to follow it up more closely in subsequent reports. I then put away the case rapporteur and committee leader hat for a moment and put on the party hat. During the examination of Document 1 in 2008, the Riksrevision wrote an additional report on the conditions in Nav. The accounts could not be confirmed and the situation was very serious. A separate verification hearing was also held during the examination of the Committee. It was then expressed that one now, i.e. in 2009, had better control than in 2008. Therefore, it is very serious that Nav’s accounts for 2009 cannot be confirmed either. This is the very backbone of the welfare system, and Nav himself is known to be anything but merciful to people who report mistakes or make other minor losses. It is not acceptable for a public establishment to impose stricter requirements on its users than it makes itself. It gives a basic lack of confidence when Nav's accounts cannot be confirmed this time either. For one thing, I would say that a government council cannot survive another year with this kind of criticism from the Riksrevision. It is about nearly one third of the state budget — a budget that is completely dependant on trust, with a government council that depends on the same thing. This will also be further discussed by other representatives of the Progress Party. I also think it's in place to point out a couple of relationships under the Ministry of Justice. One is that the project management of the new emergency network still appears to be remarkably poor. The second is linked to the ICT systems of the police. The recent events where the Council of State allegedly points to the police director as a sort of scapegoat with a background to the poor ICT structure and the weak focus on ICT in the police appear to be a bit strange. So the ministry has over time been aware of this situation, in fact, for several years, and it is clear that the police director has just pointed out the importance of renewing the ICT system. However, state councils have not followed up and prioritised differently, in fact and not least in their external rhetoric. The fact that POD has finally had to draw funds from the police districts in order to get a pre-project on the ICT side is remarkable, and it shows too weak political leadership in this area. In summary, Document 1 shows that there is a great deal of good in the Norwegian administration, but that some unnecessary errors are still being made that can easily be corrected. In some cases, Document 1 also shows that there is significant potential for improvement. It is an objective that management should become better and better, and it is important for Stortinget that the government does its utmost to ensure effective management in relation to the steering signals sent from Stortinget. Also after this treatment there are a number of issues that have been mentioned, and which I expect are closely followed up by the government's government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e411	Like the chairman of the committee, I would like to start with some general considerations and say first of all that it is a very good and correct practice that we have in Norway and in our parliamentary practice, that the Riksaudition has an annual thorough review of our entire administration. It is such a serious issue that it is about, for both big business and management, our reputation and the people's confidence in governance, and indeed in our democracy. After all, the review of the National Audit Office as it stands is also a key prerequisite for identifying errors and pointing to statutory rights, and for ensuring that it is properly implemented by our administration. The work of the National Audit Office is also very important as a basis for Storting's ability to rule and discuss administration, as we are doing today. I believe – like the chairman of the committee, who has already said so, but I would also like to say so – that the main conclusion that the Stortinget can draw today, and that is good, is that Norway has good governance. Document 1 shows consistently that the Norwegian laws are followed by the administration. Document 1 is also evidence that our democracy is working. The decisions taken by the Storting are largely followed up as decided. It is an important conclusion to be able to draw in a day like this. The National Audit Office itself, and it was also the committee's head, is an important part of the administration, which I believe fulfills its task in a very good way. Of course, that doesn't mean – and that's an obvious thing to say, but it has to be said in a context – that everything is good or in order. But I'm saying this because I often think that even here in Stortinget – naturally, and that's what we're going to do, but yet – puts a lot of focus on what's not right, while we don't say so much about what's going on. That's what's important, and that's why I've started my post this way. I will then concentrate mainly on the Riksaudien's control of the Ministry of Finance and its underlying businesses, where 10 final audit letters have been issued without comment and one final audit letter with comments on the tax bill in particular. The position in this area is in line with that of a unanimous committee. Thus, audit letters have been issued with comments on the tax rate. If so, I would say that it is serious, especially considering that it was the same discussion we had at this time here in the Storting one year ago. The 2009 budget of the Tax Administration was strengthened in order to increase the number of heavy bookshelfs to traders and companies in order to strengthen the fight against undeclared work and tax evasion. The Committee finds it unfortunate that increased control efforts were also not achieved in 2009 and that the quality of fiscal controls has actually been reduced. In the opinion of the Committee, the Riksrevision’s criticism of the control activities of the tax administration is very serious. Effective control of traders and companies is essential for a well-functioning tax system. The Committee will therefore once again ask the Ministry to give high priority to the work in this important area in the future and to request appropriate guidance on further development. The Committee also points out that the reliability of tax reporting is not good enough and that the Ministry recognises that data quality is a challenge, in which work is under way to clean up. The Committee is pleased that the Department is addressing this, but it is also necessary to stress the need to move forward in order to address the problems that we are talking about here and which are addressed in Document 1. The 2009 audit has shown that the tax rate has different practices in VAT cases, both as regards the imposition of an additional charge and the notification for non-delivery. The Committee shares the criticisms of the National Audit Office in this area. The Ministry must ensure a system that ensures that taxable persons are treated equally, irrespective of their country of residence. Moreover, I refer to the Committee's consideration of Document 3:11 The National Audit Office's examination of the tax haven's control of tax returns and basic data, which we will consider a little later in this meeting. Then I'm going to go to the State pension fund. I stress that audit and supervision are essential to ensure the legitimacy and openness of the way the Petroleum Fund is managed, a asset that will benefit both today's and future generations. In many ways, the State pension fund represents important parts of our national wealth. The size must therefore be kept under constant control of the management of the fund. The Committee is pleased that the State pension fund is managed in a good manner domestically. We have noticed that the National Audit Office's investigations mainly include the State pension fund abroad, and I would therefore like to make some comments on the findings made in connection with that audit. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these questions were dealt with as a matter of their own in Stortinget on 18 March. At that time, the main theme was the framework, or the rules governing lending activities. In today’s debate, the remuneration of external administrators is central. The Committee notes that it is satisfied that the National Audit Board has contributed to raising awareness of the remuneration of the external administrators of Norway’s Bank in the management of the State pension fund abroad. When it is found that Norway’s Bank has entered into an agreement with one of its external administrators that has resulted in a fee of 500 million. kr, it may be difficult to believe that it is in line with what is called general justice. In fact, no breach of rules or guidelines has been identified – as the Committee has seen – and more returns have been achieved by what is called a very good margin. Nevertheless, an overall committee therefore meets the government's assessments on this issue in the annual report on the State pension fund for spring. We have noticed that it will be considered to introduce a general rule on capping yield-dependent fees to external administrators in this context, and the Committee is pleased with the signals received in this area. Furthermore, a Joint Committee will stress the importance of transparency in the management of the State pension fund abroad, including the external one, and expects that measures to increase the degree of transparency will also be part of the communication announced by the government to the spring. In this way, the Stortinget and thus the public are given the opportunity to discuss these important issues in a broader context. It is important and proper all the time when the management of the Fund, as well as the maintenance of important financial interests, must also safeguard the reputation of the Fund. The reputation of the Fund is not directly addressed by the National Audit Office, nor is it directly addressed by the Committee as such. But I would like to stress on an independent basis the importance of the reputation of the fund. I understand that the fund is within more than 8 000 companies worldwide, and it is clear that it is a major challenge at any time to keep order on the ethical side of being invested in so many companies. But here it is not possible to exclude that the department has a special independent responsibility. It is, of course, demanding, as I have said, to follow up individual matters, but the annual review, according to the ministry, contributes to the deletion of companies that do not comply with the ethical guidelines from the investment list. That's good. But it is also important to say here – as you can say – that those who stand with this on a daily basis on the bank's behalf, on the behalf of the Stortinget and on the government's mission must have a strong focus on this ongoing process, so that they have as much control as possible of the fact that our money, the state's money, is not invested in companies that cannot be defended ethically. I would like to comment on what the chairman of the committee was also involved in relating to ICT security. Of course, I agree with the assessment that it must be the best possible. If it's not, it's a very big challenge for all of us and for the government. However, I would like to stress what the committee chairman said in a sentence, but which relates to the fact that the current Council of State has dealt with this matter very thoroughly and has taken a number of steps to remedy the situation that we have had, which is, of course, unfortunate and critical. So now the Committee has sent letters to the Council of State on these issues, and the Committee will then have the opportunity to come back to that matter more thoroughly when the answers to those letters are available, and we can review them in the Committee before we possibly proceed with the matter. I would also like to join in some of the views expressed by the chairman of the Committee on Nav. It's of great importance that we get order on Nav. We had a case of our own last year, where we went through all of it. Many things have improved, a lot has been done – it has to be said. But nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary here on the part of Stortinget to press that case, so that Nav becomes the tool it should be for all of us and for those who need the services that Nav is responsible for in Norwegian society. In addition, I refer to the chairman of the Committee, who gave the general views expressed unanimously by the Committee on the examination of Document 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e453	Let me conclude with the last speaker, and for that matter also the committee's chairman's observation that most things are in order in the Norwegian administration. But it was supposed to be missing, too. We expect that. There'll be a lot of attention on what's going to fail. I am also pleased with that, because it is precisely attention to what is failing, in particular press attention to responsible politicians, which brings about changes. It may be bad to say that, but only the Riksrevision's observation doesn't seem as strong as the fact that the press also brings forward the Riksrevision's points. So attention in itself can be unpleasant, but you world so effective. In general, I have two comments that are consistent with the committee chairman's point of view as well. What is slowing forward, but too slow, is respect for tendering practices. It is surprising that large parts of the external management, particularly in the case of under the Ministry of Defence or in the Defence Department, continues, despite criticism, to conduct a procurement practice without a tender. The second main question is what both previous speakers have pointed out, namely the fact that Nav, the main social policy instrument, in the form of a government at least that a government has, still has major problems. It cannot, in my opinion, live with this government in the long run, and now the race is near the end. It's the second year you get very critical comments, and you don't get to approve it all. So a couple of notes in individual areas beyond this. I mainly agree with Mr Kolberg's observations and mention of the State pension fund abroad and the expectations he also played there to the Ministry of Finance's announcement to the spring. I would like to stress that the Committee does not criticise the management of the Bank of Norway, NBIM, or the management of the fund as such, because it is an audit responsibility for the representation, and that is what comes back to. But the audit responsibility is to focus on the Ministry of Finance's governance with the State pension fund abroad. There is probably no criticism either, but there is a kind of mild expectation that guidelines can be set so that they can live with both in the political world in Norway and the very different world as such a large fund exists in the international community. Some of us have to admit that bonus payments of half a billion dollars seem very strange, to say it like that, and then I will personally make the representative Kolberg's press statement to mine as well. We may have to respect that this is a world we are not used to in the political environment, but at the same time the guidelines must be such as to help maintain the good reputation of the Pension Fund and the Bank of Norway in order to belong to this world and this country. So here it's a difficult balance, I admit, and I'm expecting the Minister of Finance to find the right balance point in the communication to spring. Another special theme I want to address is ICT practice, or lack of security in relation to the government's ICT connection. It is obvious from the history of the National Audit Office, that the relationship between the Ministry of Renewal and the Ministry's Service Centre has been characterised by inadequate governance and insufficient information in the past. I would like to add that I am also satisfied with the follow-up of the current Council of State, because I think that has happened after the Riksrevision's criticism, at a pace and with a force that I am satisfied with. But then I would like to add that this will prove true, because on several occasions in the past, even in the revised budget, that is to say, exceptional, the Storting has granted funds to strengthen the data security of the government's relationship, but it has nevertheless failed even after these appropriations. So it's important that we now get to the bottom of what the problems are, and that we get a follow-up, which is sufficient. In the setting on page 25, the Committee states: ‘The Committee refers to the letter of the Council of State dated 30 November 2010 pointing out that detected weaknesses were immediately addressed with all departments where compromised machinery had been detected. The Committee agrees with the Council of State that the task of informing the ministries about the challenges of the unupgraded network should have been done both more precisely and to a greater extent.’ It is, of course, a criticism that the Council of State itself is targeting the past practice of the Department, i.e. that you could and should have informed all departments that it was a failure even if there were no hacked machines, here called compromised machines, in that particular department. It's a contribution to self-criticism that I think deserves praise for transparency, because it's not every day you experience it. At the same time, however, there is also a warning that something similar should happen to her in the future, the departments should be informed of the problems, not only when they arise in concrete terms, but also of the risks arising from the lack of data security.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e475	In general, there is an overall committee that is behind 97-98 pst. of the notes. It was supposed to give some clear signals to the government. The undersigned has been responsible for the Ministry of Justice, and I will come back to that a little. First, I will make a few general comments on some of the issues that have already been raised. Firstly, with regard to ICT security, it is a critical area. I would also like to say that with the warning matter that we have also received, I am sure that the committee will very much respond to the answer we get from the Council of State, both in general and in relation to the specific matter which has so far started at the Prime Minister's office. Should there be any sense in alarm protection, at least it must also be perceived as a protection, and not as the opposite. So to the state pension fund, yeah, put on the head, you can ask yourself, is it better to spend 500 million? kr on fees and earns 5 billion. I'll give you $50 million. kr on fees and earns 500 million. kr. What is best for Norway? What's the problem with this case, is perhaps primarily pedagogics, because fees in the 500 million class can, as well, not defend objectively. But as they say, you're operating in a sphere that's a little different than most of us are in for daily use. So I will at least wait for the annual report that comes through the State pension fund and finally is promoted by the government before I want to make any final judgment. What I have more problems with, however, is the threshold for saying that enough is enough for the use of single managers. I do not think it is satisfactory what has been done in this one case, that reference is made to the fact that he has not been convicted in the home country, but that he has only received a fine from a financial controller in the country in question. I believe that Norway will ensure that there are also some independent criteria on which administrators you are using, and what you consider to be adequate use of administrators, even if there is no conviction. A slightly higher standard in that area than the answers we have so far received requires, I think, the Norwegian population as well. And I'll get back to that, too. That's what also announced a review of. So to the Ministry of Justice: there are 17 final audit letters without comments and two with comments, and they go to the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Emergency Communications. We must then note that these are the same establishments that also received comments for the financial year 2008. It goes on acquisitions, it goes on information security. At all, there are repeaters in the two floors and, in general, in the departments. As far as ICT is concerned, we have had various rounds in this room, and also in the media, related to the ICT bet – or, at least for the previous years, the lack of ICT bet – in the police. I expect that it is a strengthened state council and a strengthened police directorate that is now embarking on significant acquisitions of an ICT platform that will be appropriate, but that also requires a lot of those who are actually going to order these goods. With the past that the directorate has in this area, I expect that there is good reason to follow closely. In 2010–2013, the Ministry of Justice will implement a broad-based police performance reform. Its aim must be precisely to contribute to the reduction of crime, increased clarification and a more current police force. I believe that not only this committee, but the whole Storting meets. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the emergency network project, which is again delayed. We're also talking about acquisitions in the billions class, where it's incredibly important to follow proper procedures and make sure that the government doesn't get any more expenses than it needs. There is obviously a great deal of complexity about this type of project, and we already see that those who are going to use this coming emergency network are asking questions about whether it will be adequate for their use. So from our point of view, we expect the National Audit Office to have a significant focus on this project in the future, which has gradually become its own budget. I guess that says a little bit about how extensive this whole thing has become.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e498	With free speaking time and as the last party out, there is very much I can join as the others have said. I believe that we have had a good process on this, and the committee chairman's comments are mainly to my mind. I believe that this process proves that we have a considerably healthier democracy than some professors today say that we have. However, I would like to make a comment on the Left side and a comment on my case-presidentship. First of all, the rapporteur-general: I am responsible for the Ministry of Culture, which has had 34 audit letters and no one with comments. But there are two projects that the Riksrevision has followed up. One is a theme that we have had here in the Chamber in the past and on which we have had our own control hearing – namely Norsk Typing. There it seems, also from the comments of the National Audit Office, that things have started to be sorted out and started to be cleaned up in important corporate structures, but also in thoughts about what state gambling is really going to be. There are others with regard to the famous project «Rockheim», where the Riksrevision has quite rightly pointed out that it is strange that the department awarded NOK 940,000 for its own selection, also called «pre-opening», but the only thing you were before was the election, so that the whole opening could act as a good scoop for a cultural minister who would like to have some help at home for his own election campaign. That's what all the opposition parties have said, and I'm glad to see that the Ministry of Culture says this is a project they're going to review, and that they're going to look at it. I hope the Ministry's budgets are not used for something that can easily be interpreted as an electoral campaign event for a government council. So a general remark about something that has been very important to us in the Left, namely the renewal and efficiency of the public sector. It's an important field. The left has been involved since the morning of this Chamber in very many large, and in all the important welfare reforms that we have had. Then it is the person who is happy in the public sector who has to be involved in reforming the public sector, I believe. What I think is frightening, and as we look at the field after field, is that the state is now going to be hanging technologically after. We're not being streamlined, and we're not getting renewed, because we're going to be hanging around for important ICT systems. This is the case in the police — previously noted here — and there is a frightening openness in the state, which may be a bit far from what the Left actually wants, namely that anyone can access any PC anywhere in the state system, it seems that. The last thing that Left also mentions later here today is that we have carried out a difficult reform, the Nav reform, while employees say that they still relate to four computer systems. They relate to DOS systems from the 1980s. It's a programming language that I learned when I went to high school, and I was Russian in 1988! There are over 100 different platforms within these four systems, and for us who have great fascination with what technology can help us with – and we see how many fun things we can get for the sake of our iPads and on our computers – it is clear that it is amazing that the employees who are going to manage such an important system as the Nav system do not get a technological platform that is more up-to-date, more efficient. Had Nav been a private company, Nav had realized how much they could save, and how much more efficient you could have been with a new computer system. Then you would've tipped off to the bank and said, "Dear bank, can we borrow money for a new computer system?" When we get money through the ageing of the budget, the Left believes that we should not inject it into the operation, but use that space for action – 2.8 billion. kr as we propose today – to make a real boost in the ICT sector in Nav. I think the government had saved money on that. I think it would have been a better offer for the citizens. I think it would have made working in Nav a lot more fun. And I think it would have been a big step forward in renewing the welfare state. Putting all the public sectors behind in this field, I think, in sum, is a big betrayal of the welfare state. It's about not getting to the renewal, we're not getting the efficiency, we're not getting the good people, and we're not getting to the exciting jobs if we're not willing to take any of those big moves. Then it can't be that in the field after field we don't have the power to take that promise in the ICT sector, when we know that that's what's needed. It may not be that you, as a government councillor, are glazed in gold and put on a fine base when you have given money to ICT systems. It's a lot more fun to stand here and say that you've given money to more employees, but I actually think it would have given much more counting if we had given all the competent employees a work tool that would have made their everyday life much more rational, meaningful and made the quality better. I also think, in relation to the matter we have here today, that many of the comments we get because of the Nav management systems could also have been dramatically improved if we had given the employees ICT tools, so that they had become more effective. I believe that this is indeed a major challenge for this welfare state, and we must take this seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e513	I will concentrate mainly on the two departments for which I am the case rapporteur, first and foremost the Ministry of Labour, especially then Nav, and then the development part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But let me first emphasize what others have said, that we actually have a very good administration, and that all the reports we have, emphasize it. And as the representative Foss said, it should really just be missing, but it's not necessarily a matter of course in every country. The Norwegian administration also manages the Norwegian welfare state, not to say the Norwegian welfare model, which ensures all welfare, care, health, education and work. People's rights must ensure us through sickness and unemployment and as pensioners, and we, as elected representatives, are responsible for the most effective organisation of the public sector, so that the service reaches the users. I'm also saying this because I'm getting closer to the organisation of Nav. People who need help and service should meet with respect when they come to a public office. It is important that users do not meet the wall, not to say the door, when they go to a public office. They shall not have to go to more than one door. They must get through by phone, they must receive an e-mail response and receive a prompt and sound procedure. This is quite important in the case of general government, because general government consists not only of people who sit in some offices far up on the floors and do business; general government must also serve the users of the same administration. So we know that the challenges of achieving good and efficient public sector service production will increase in the coming years. We get more older, and we get higher demands on quality and availability. The expectations of service providers are increasing both from the political system – I would like to stress it – and from the users. In particular, the requirements increase to the first line service, to the external face of the public sector. In the case of Nav, like the representative of Kolberg, I would also refer to the debate we had on 2 March in this room, based on Appendix 2 from last year's Document 1, and also to the audit hearing we had on 15 January. The establishment of Nav was based on a welfare policy vision, with a first line in labour and welfare management as an important instrument for achieving the objective of a comprehensive labour and social policy. The starting point was that we were going to have more work and fewer social security, it was going to be easier for users, and it was going to be more efficient. This is why it was all the more serious what was revealed during the treatment of Appendix 2 to last year's Document 1 with the final treatment we had on 2 March: lack of management parameters for key parts of the business, poor internal control in the performance management, lack of competence in the first line service and unclear division of work between local offices and the so-called administrative units where the Nav offices appeared to be units that lacked broad competence. And we experienced increased frustration among employees about not being able to make the simplest decisions or process them. This also led, according to the reports we received, to flight from the first line to the offices protected for user contact. In general, in relation to the public sector, we see in some of the outgoing agencies trends that employees would like to behind the scenes rather than sitting in outgoing offices. It is therefore important, even in Nav, that those who handle the external Nav offices have competence, and that they feel that they are doing a real job. So the National Audit Office could not confirm in its report last year, for 2008, that Nav’s accounts were not incorrect or missing. After all, we're talking about 300 billion. kr. For this reason, I think it is important for the Committee to note this year that the Riksrevision believes that the many measures put in place in the Labour and Welfare Act at the end of last year have led to clear improvements and that progress is positive. The report highlights, in particular, the strengthening of internal control and clarification of the accountability of the economy and the centralisation of the social security accounts. Then, of course, it is serious that the Riksrevision cannot confirm for 2009 that the ‘accounting of the entity is without material errors and deficiencies’. That's what it says. This note is not related to accounting conditions, as appropriate. These are uncertainties related to transactions in social security and benefit management. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: failure of the internal control with regard to the payment of a pension. Let me stress that it is of course important that people who receive a pension or social security have the security to ensure that what they get is right. I registered on the presentation of Document 1 that something was written and said about a deterioration in the living conditions or quality of life of pensioners. I would like to show that State Council Bjurstrøm has previously refused in this Chamber, among other things. in the spontaneous Question Time on 27 October, that this is a reality. Among other things, she said:\t\t You "But no one has received their money. Those who are now in a separate account are matters where too much has been paid. Anyone who did not receive their money in due time has received interest on late payments, 6 p.m., in return." It might look like the case of 800 pensioners got a little bit blown up, not to say out of proportion. When we dealt with Nav in the previous round, it was discussed whether the implementation of the Nav could be called an imbalance between objectives, resources and ability to implement. The political system probably did not take account of the scale or complexity of the reform that was launched. Maybe this wasn't well enough communicated. Perhaps unrealistic expectations were created, which was also admitted by several in the hearing. Nevertheless, we should not forget that Nav works pretty well, although there is a lot left before users get one door, and before local offices get enough competence to serve those who come or call. Among the information that flows to the undersigned and others is that it is still a kind of Kafka experience to get to him by phone or to get an e-mail response. We can't be aware of that. But again and again: the public sector needs to be organised so that services reach users and users reach the first line service and those making the decisions. So finally just a few words about Norwegian development assistance. It is quite typical that when there are so few comments about assistance, it also suggests that we have quite good control over Norwegian development aid. It also means that both assistance and its exercise are of high quality. But that's a lot of money. This year's aid budget is over 27 billion. kr. Therefore, it is important that in the debate we not only focus on the share of gross national income – it is also important – that goes to help. We also need to discuss the content and scope. That is to the extent the responsibility of the committee, but I just mention it by this crossroads. It is important to ask questions here. in the case of any assistance to Ethiopia. It is also the most important thing in the notes in Document 1, because recent information on the misuse of aid by the Ethiopian authorities has recently been found. Therefore, the Committee considers it particularly important to focus more on the conditions for state-to-state assistance to Ethiopia. Finally, I would like to refer to an interpellation debate that a few weeks ago was in this Chamber about just helping Ethiopia.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e548	I would like to comment on parts of this matter with emphasis on the departments for which I am the case rapporteur, and it is the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Innovation, Administration and the Ministry of the Church. First to Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion. It is difficult to avoid mentioning the fact that the Riksrevision points out the lack of follow-up of single minor asylum seekers. This applies to several aspects, including: the supervision of the health care provision by the county children's protection system for cooperation with Bufetat and the municipalities; incorrect budgeting of operational expenditure; The National Audit Office points out a number of important issues in its report. For example, an overall committee sees it as unacceptable that municipal child protection services do not follow concerns from the reception of minor asylum seekers and that they refuse to intervene. After all, the Committee has corresponded with the State Council on the occasion of the case and is pleased that the service provision of all lone minor asylum seekers is constantly being strengthened. And we notice that the Council of State announces to clarify to the municipalities the responsibilities and obligations of child protection services towards lone minor asylum seekers in the reception of asylum. Other matters within this department should also be mentioned. We are pleased that the Riksrevision will follow up on a number of areas next year, including the long period of proceedings in the areas of child protection and social affairs. So to the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church. This department has overall coordination responsibility for ICT policy, which includes the development of strategies, the follow-up to cross-sectoral issues, etc. And in this context, it is obvious that there are some significant challenges in the state apparatus. I am not going to invite any debate on the Data Storage Directive, it would have been the Stortinget a few days ago, but it has to be mentioned that there are significant information security challenges in the Norwegian state administration. I would like to refer here to the sharp and clear comments that the Committee is promoting, and to several of the speeches that have already been held from this pulpit today. As far as ICT security is concerned, it is absolutely essential to have a good order and overview of work and a systematic and planned approach. It is not acceptable when it appears that information is not sufficiently secured. In the correspondence that the Committee has had with the Council of State, it seems that the Council of State has taken the issue seriously and addressed the detected weaknesses immediately with all departments. Then we look forward to presenting significant improvements in this field in next year's Document 1. At least we can promise that we will follow up the matter. That's what I was going to say about relationships around the departments I'm the rapporteur for. So some comments about some other departments, and first to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Here I want to put a special search light on Norwegian patient damages. It is the view of the Advance Party that the period of treatment in Norwegian patients’ compensation is too long and that the work to reduce the duration of treatment needs to be intensified. Priority should also be given to the work on information and user surveys. Here we believe that it has been followed up too badly. The committee's correspondence with the Council of State provides figures indicating that one is on the right track, and that is, of course, good, but the objective must be a further shortening of the procedure. Then to the Ministry of Labour, and especially Nav. Former speakers have also addressed this issue, including: The Chairman of the Committee, and also the representatives of Nybakk and Skei Grande. The Employment and Welfare Act was central to the document 1 treatment last year. They also had their own hearing on the matter. It turned out that the situation was what can be called greedy in popular Norwegian. Some improvements can be seen, but it is not in any way acceptable when the National Audit Office cannot confirm for 2009 that the accounts of the State of Labour and Welfare are without material errors and shortcomings. Some of the fields where errors, deficiencies and uncertainties are identified are: the social security and benefit management of the pension area reporting compulsory benefits to the equality authorities in the event of multiple voting; The Committee has noted that the Council of State takes a very serious view of this situation and that she believes that the challenges in Nav require exceptional follow-up from the Ministry on the governance side. She's obviously right about that. It's e.g. Very serious when people don't get the right pension. It is now important that Nav clean up and ensure that pensioners and others receive the benefits they require. Finally, a little bit about culture. When you're in the Ministry of Culture, it's hard to get out of the National Pop and Rock Experience Centre — Rockheim. After all, the case rapporteur, Skei Grande, has written a very good comment on the subject and has also mentioned in his statement the critical aspects of the Riksrevision. And ‘the opening’, which was made by former Minister of Culture Trond Giske, comes in retrospect in a rather strange light. Of course, the Progress Party will join in the comments made by the rapporteur in this regard. Finally, I notice that there are many listeners here today from the National Audit Office. I must say that I have once again been impressed by the solid work done by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e607	First to the U.D. The national audit is critical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over several years has not had satisfactory control and procedures on the follow-up of the foreign stations. The Control and Constitutional Committee takes this seriously and, by letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, expressed concern, in particular regarding the legislation on budgetary and revenue allocations, and challenges him to step up the procedures at the foreign stations and their control. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs claims: ‘The work on ensuring good internal control and the correct quality of the accounts of all these stations is of high priority and the Ministry has implemented several measures to ensure the necessary improvement in the areas where the National Audit Office has revealed weaknesses.’ According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the work on ensuring the proper management of visa and passport fees is particularly a priority. And a number of foreign stations are now offering a solution that allows the public to apply for and pay for visas via the Internet. These revenues are channelled directly to the U.D., which is subject to control and accounting. Foreign station accounting weaknesses are, according to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, placed high on the agenda, even in relation to the station managers, who have overall responsibility for the accounting. In addition to this, we have developed the course for accountants at our foreign stations. The feedback from the U.D. on this is good, but we expect to see concrete results of the improvements started at the next check. In addition, the National Audit Office has identified weaknesses in the management dialogue with underlying activities, log checks and access rights and documentation. Here, too, the U.D. claims that measures have been taken to improve the situation in the areas identified. It is particularly important that we have good governance and control in the area of information security. In the area of aid and development, the National Audit Office points out that despite many good intentions to combat corruption, anti-corruption work can be found to be a minor part of the ongoing dialogue with beneficiaries. This is unsustainable. We expect the Minister of Development to take this into account and to ensure that the focus is much more focused on corruption and that this will now be combated in a far more active way. It has also been found that the U.D. does not follow up on the lack of opinions of the auditors of the aid projects with regard to maladministration and corruption, and that the audit reports of the projects deviate from the agreements concluded. This too is unsustainable, and it is expected that the work on bringing these matters into line will intensify considerably. Then go to the Department of Transport. Here, too, the Riksrevision points out that the department’s office management of information security in underlying agencies is missing. There are, among other things: no guidance on how to secure social and activity-critical infrastructure, either in the case of the State Road Service or the Railway Agency. The Minister of Transport claims that she will assess the further follow-up to the case, inter alia. whether concrete requirements on road and rail are to be met as regards the security of information contained in the letter of assignment to the State Road Administration and the Finnish Railway Agency for 2011. Much more active action is expected to address these issues and a unanimous committee is required to impose such requirements on underlying establishments. The National Audit Office also points out that since 2006 there has been a lack of quality assurance and back-testing procedures in the State Road Administration, and that this is still not satisfactory. Feedback from the Department is that new pay data procedures have finally been developed, and we assume that these will be implemented immediately in the department. The Riksrevision report points out that the State Road Administration’s ground-breaking procedures have been flawed, which according to the Department is due to the implementation of the administrative reform. We therefore sent questions as to whether there were other improvements or changes that were postponed or delayed in the light of this reform. It turned out that the administrative reform also meant that it was considerably more time-consuming to establish binding standards for what was previously the other national roads. In the past, this could be determined by instructions from the Directorate of Road or the Department, while no instructions can now be given to the municipalities or the municipality of Oslo. Such standards must now be set by regulation, which complicates the process and makes it much more time-consuming. The National Audit Office's report also shows that the State Road Service had a small consumption of 941 million. NOK and the railway works had a minor consumption of SEK 929 million. kr. The reason for this shall be that work has been delayed in time and that some projects have had too little progress. Knowing the excruciating need for improvements, both in the railways and in the road network, we must ensure that these important areas have both organisation and procedures that ensure the progress of the projects planned. One expects the Minister of Transport to take active action to get this right. Unfortunately, what is an ongoing problem for most departments is a lack of attention around and procedures for information security, as several others have already experienced. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has not taken this seriously enough. Information security must have the necessary focus in all departments. Even in the Ministry of Defence, where it might be thought that this was all right, the National Audit Office found significant shortcomings. It is revealed that the defence is not up to date with identifying, classifying and prioritising information assets and that sufficient risk analysis is not carried out in the field of information security. On this basis, we sent questions to the Council of State about when we could expect these relationships, which could compromise important data, to be resolved. In its reply, the Minister of Defence claims that she will make demands on the authorities in the defence sector to carry out risk analysis in 2011 and in the 2011 etat management process have a special focus on compliance with applicable legislation related to information security. I expect that both the Department and the Defence Department will address these issues in a much more active way. I can hardly see any other sector where information security needs and needs to have a higher focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e634	Initially, I would like to stress what several speakers have said, that we in Norway have a good administration with consistently high quality and good and competent employees and employees. At the same time, I would like to underline the point that the representative Nybakk was also concerned about, namely that this administration, and the job that the administration is doing, is quite crucial for the confidence in and uplifting of our welfare model. I have had the pleasure of seeing this model from different sides, both as a magnificent representative, state council and county council, and some of the things that are continuous and important in our model are legal certainty and non-discrimination. There are two basic values on which the administration is to build. That is why the debate we have today is important, because it is a debate that is about the crossroads between control, political debate, execution and implementation, which should be aimed at making good governance even better. I'm going to comment on two issues relating to the Ministry of Finance, and the first thing I'm going to say is the management of the State pension fund abroad and the comments that have come in that context. After all, we place great emphasis on the government’s management of the State pension fund – and with strong support from the Stortinget – to be both long-term and responsible, in order to benefit both current and future generations of the petroleum industry. It is important for the Committee to stress that audit and supervision should contribute to ensuring legitimacy and broad dissociation around the way in which these funds are managed. The Committee makes important clarifications regarding the division of labour and roles between the various supervisory and supervisory bodies established. It is pointed out in the preamble that the Riksrevision will ensure that the Ministry of Finance manages the Fund in line with the Stortingen's assumptions and decisions, while the Representation, based on the work of the external auditor, shall ensure that the management of the Bank of Norway is conducted within the guidelines drawn up by the Ministry. The internal audit of the Bank of Norway shall ensure that internal guidelines provided by the Governing Council within the mandate of the Bank are followed up. It is important that clear lines are drawn that clarify the responsibilities of the individual levels of the management chain. And clear lines are important to ensure both a good and robust control and supervision system. The Committee points out that it is satisfied that the Riksaudition has contributed to raising awareness of the remuneration of external administrators used by Norway’s Bank in the management of the SPU. At the same time, it is worth stressing that the Riksrevision in that case has not revealed a breach of rules or guidelines. I have, as a comment on the matter when it came, said that, in the context of the 2010 Annual Report, which will be submitted to the Spring Stortinget, I will have a review of the system of external administrators and will also consider measures, such as the possibilities to limit remuneration to external administrators. But we'll get back to that case, and Stortinget will have a wide opportunity to discuss this issue when the message comes. And as part of the preparation for the big debate and the work on the message, I have of course noticed what has also been said in this debate. I have also noticed that the Committee refers to the Riksrevision asking questions in the Accounting Code for SPU. A unanimous committee points out that the SPU is not a separate legal entity and therefore does not have its own accounts or auditors. Therefore, the accounting reporting for SPU is formally an extract from the accounts of Norway’s Bank. This is a useful clarification of the relationship between the external auditor, who audited the bank's accounts, and the Riksrevision. I also agree with the observation that was made, that it is important to maximise transparency around the management of the SPU, and that the administration must, of course, also respect the reputation of the fund. Reputation is, of course, important for the general integration that people should have around the management of the fund and the well-being of the fund. We will also come back to the question of transparency in connection with the communication to spring. Let me also say that the SPU should maintain values in a broad sense, both by providing good returns on the fund's resources and at the same time by maintaining important ethical values in the management process. The reason why I stress it is that the fund is the property of the people, and it is also important that the management of the fund reflects the values that people respect and that people stand for. It is important for the mobilisation of the Fund in the future. Then, too, the management of the fund and the ethical guidelines are broadly anchored; they were unanimously adopted in the Stortingen when they were being treated a few years ago. We carried out an evaluation of the Fund's ethical guidelines in 2008, and throughout they are robust and good. In view of this, we have proposed a comprehensive strategy for responsible investment practices. This happens, for example. through broad international cooperation to identify best practices in the field, targeted investment programmes, research and development tasks, ownership exercises and actions relating to the observation of companies and the exclusion of companies. We from the Ministry of Finance place great emphasis on ownership, and it is also within the administration of the Bank of Norway. I say this to inform you that, in connection with the 2010 Annual Report, I will also have a broad review of the ethical work in the management of the SPU. I will then come back to that in connection with the Annual Report and the debate Stortinget will have on the Annual Report. Let me add some comments to the tax bill. The tax base is an important establishment. It's because it's in contact with so many people. Most of us will have contact with the tax haven during life. At the same time, the tax rate is important for the collection of funds to finance the Community's important tasks. It is true that we depend on the fact that there is a great deal of disintegration in the work done by the tax system, and not least that there is a break-up in the tax system and, let's say, the purpose of the tax system. Then we may disagree on the arrangement of parts of the tax system and rates and such things, but it is important that the legitimacy of the tax system and the collection of taxes are strong among the population. If we look at what happened in 2009 and which is also pointed out in the setting, the number of heavier controls in the tax rate decreased, while the total activity on the control side increased. It has also led to the discovery of amounts greater than in the past when it comes to avoiding taxation or not getting amounts and revenues up to tax. There is a clear increase in the control activities in terms of VAT duties and tax evasion units located at the individual regional offices that the tax rate has. So far in 2010 there is continued positive development in this area. I can assure the rapporteur and the committee that we are following this closely. Control is a high priority on the part of the Ministry of Finance, and this is a central theme in the governance discussions we have with the tax administration. Today, the government will present proposals for changes to audit legislation, which will also have consequences for the tax system, and it is the government's intention that we, among other things, should do so. in that context, it shall also strengthen further the control work to be carried out by the tax haven. Equal treatment of taxpayers and the legal certainty of individual taxpayers is also a central theme in the governance dialogue with the Ministry of Finance. The work on regulatory development, simplification and the control side of it is a fixed topic in the same conversations that we have with the tax haven. Then I would also like to add that in a recently published survey on the amount of tasks that taxpayers are faced with, Norway is cutting top in the international context in terms of simplicity and the reporting system from companies, for example. into the tax haven. It's an important signal, but that doesn't mean we're going to rest on our laurels, because we're going to develop further in that area as well. I have noted the views of the representative, Mr Kolberg, in relation to what the representative said about the tax liability. These are, of course, opinions and remarks that I'm going to take with me in the further work we're going to have to develop the tax rate to become an even better budget. In my view, the tax rate works well. It's a place of high trust. But the tax rate can also be better. As I said at the outset, the debate we have today is important in the work we are all going to have, so that we can also reach out for something and get an administration that will be even better in the future, and that will further enhance the good quality that is currently in Norwegian administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e670	Many speakers have been concerned about the importance of information security here today. Good information security is becoming increasingly important as ICT plays an increasingly important role in almost everything we do. People must be able to trust that the state will solve this in a good way. At the same time, I think we have to recognise that this is a demanding subject area. Threats evolve constantly in line with technology and the way it is used. Safety measures that work well and safely today may prove to be completely inadequate tomorrow. That is why it is good that the Riksrevision is concerned with ICT security, and I would like to stress that I take very seriously the circumstances that the Riksrevision has addressed regarding the lack of ICT security in my department. I am pleased that more people in the debate have registered that I have taken care of this. I have also noted the comments made by the Committee in this area. The fact that the Committee mentions this not only in the context of the mention of FAD but has also raised the issue of ICT security as a central issue in its general comments tells me that this is something that the Committee is very concerned about. I share the Committee’s view on the ‘need for this challenge to be taken seriously and for the departments concerned to follow up on the Riksaudition’s points and to implement the necessary measures to significantly improve ICT security’. The time does not allow me to go into all the details, neither with regard to my ministry's work on coordinating information security, nor with regard to the specific matter relating to the matters referred to by the Riksrevision with regard to the data security in the DSS, but I refer in this connection to the answers I have given to the Committee, and of course to the answer that I shall be given the opportunity to clarify in relation to the letter sent to me by the Committee. The issue of ICT security in the up-to-date network in the DSS, which they operate on behalf of 13 ministries, has received considerable attention. It is also reflected in the Committee's comments. The security of the computer system has not been good enough. Therefore, measures to improve safety have already been implemented, but there will be a need to do more. In addition to my replies to the Committee, I would like to add today that we have engaged an external quality assurance body to assess whether the measures implemented and planned are sufficient. That job has started. The national safety authority checks the current safety status of the computer systems. The national safety authority report will be available in a short time. It will provide an important basis for the ministry's further work on the security of information in the department's computer systems. The report will not be made public in its entirety, but on the basis of feedback in the course of the process, some immediate measures have already been implemented to strengthen security. In addition, I want to look at the way my department controls and follows up the DSS. The Ministry has this week to report to my Ministry on the follow-up to the issues raised by the National Audit Office in the area of prevention IT security, and we are working to revise the national guidelines on information security. Just let me say that there's a hard way to communicate this, because every time we broadcast identifiable vulnerabilities, it can be exploited by malicious actors. Therefore, I hope that we find a suitable way to provide the Storting with such information. We're going to have to get back to that. Let me also comment on some of the comments that have been related to the accounts of the Navs and the Working and Welfare Act. The rapporteur has been very well aware of the points made by the National Audit Office in connection with the Nav accounts, and I have taken note of the Committee's comments and I am very serious about the situation. On the other hand, I am pleased to note that the work of the department on internal control has resulted in what the Riksrevision in its report calls a “controllability” in the proceedings. The National Audit Service considers that the challenge in the Labour and Welfare Act requires exceptional follow-up to the government of the Ministry. I agree that the follow-up to the establishment and reform activities is therefore closer than is usual in the management of state activities. It has, among other things, frequent management meetings between the Labour and Welfare Directorate on the Nav reform and other topics that have required specific follow-up, throughout the reform period from 1 July 2006. In addition, ordinary management meetings will be held. As part of the follow-up of the Ministry, external assistance has been involved in the follow-up to the Nav reform, the ICT pension programme and the improvement of the quality of the accounts in the department. Efforts to improve and expand internal control in the Employment and Welfare Act have recently been central to the department’s management of the establishment. The measures taken to improve internal control are part of a long-term control strategy for the period 2009-2015. The strategy addresses both the establishment of key controls, back-testing to identify errors and abuses, ICT development to support effective control and organisational measures that support the control strategy. By the end of 2010, there are established key checks representing 90 pst in total. of the payments made by the establishment. From October 2010, responsibility for the financial management of the unit is combined in one guideline. A dedicated project for the centralisation of accounts has been carried out in parallel with a clearing-up of accounts and improvements in reconciliation procedures. I assume that this work will contribute to the quality-enhancing of the department's accounting work. The Ministry will focus on the following actions in the future: continue work on improving internal control to develop a quality system and a knowledge base to set objective and measurable requirements for the quality of the process in the establishment to carry out an ICT modernisation in the Working and Welfare Seat; The Ministry has followed the ICT strategy laid down in St.prp. No 46 for 2004–2005 and to which the Stortingen joined. Work is now in progress on quality assurance of the concept choice for ICT modernisation. We're done with phase I of that work, and phase II is now beginning. But it is important for me to stress that we need to make good, well-worked and quality-assured plans when we are going to start with as much investment as a new ICT platform in the Employment and Welfare Act is. These measures are long-term and will take some time before they are fully effective. The size will be adequately briefed on status and progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e709	I want to start by thanking the National Auditor and the National Auditor for the job and effort they have done so well this year, and wish them Christmas. I want to show you a study that the committee had to Australia and New Zealand. That's where we met the National Audit Office in Australia. They had an annual meeting with their control committee where they discussed what the politicians wanted the national audit to work with. Maybe it's an idea that we also do that in Norway, so that one gets that contact between us as politicians and the revision that we want. Then I have a wish. It's related to one thing that I asked about when we were in Australia at the National Audit Office. It was easy that the Department of Defense there also had a lot of things. The National Auditorate continued in the Department of Defense. 20 cases they had this year. Last year they had 30 cases. So I asked what reason this was. The main reason, said the national audit, is the buy-back regime, which makes the responsibility unclear. Therefore, it is a wish of me that the Riksrevision enters into that problem in relation to buy-back agreements. The Australian National Auditors said that the Australians were building a helicopter that the National Auditors never thought was going to get in the air because of this buy-in regime. So to another important thing. When I arrived at Stortinget in 1997, there was a lot of money on everything in the Pension Fund. There were no guidelines. So in principle, the Pension Fund, or the Oil Fund, as we call it then, turned money into money, for example. mining production. Its more mines we produced, the more class bombs we produced, the more money we put on it. But not only that: we could spend money on prosthetic production as well, because the production of them also went up as long as more people were maimed by the mines that we lit the money on. Now the Stortinget, after a long time working from SV's side, has adopted ethical guidelines for this fund, and there is a large majority for it. It is only the Progress Party that wants the old model, which can give such results as I mentioned. They do not want there to be ethical guidelines for this policy, but everyone else wants it. Then it's amazing that we shouldn't be able to have it on the broker page either, that we shouldn't have any guidelines for the capital these brokers should have, where someone can "strip off" with taxpayers' money. That someone gets half a billion dollars in income to drive like a real estate agent, that doesn't understand people. So I'm glad the Council of State is now saying that he's going to look closer. We will come back to the debate on thank you, among others. as soon as the message is sent. I'm happy with that, but I expect the government to take action, so we don't get the situation that we had this year. And then I'm very happy that the National Auditor revealed this, so that we, as politicians, can grasp this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e738	As Stortinget of course records, we have already discussed this issue in the context of the 2010-2011 examination of Document 1, but let me nevertheless present the Committee's views on this matter more concretely and in particular. It is a unanimous position on the part of the Committee, which also demonstrates a very large consensus between the Storting, the Committee and the Government at the Council of State, as I heard from the intervention of the Council of State in the examination of Document 1. I still have some considerations attached to this. We note that there is a great deal of agreement that all data related to the determination of taxes and taxes must, of course, be very correct and correct. We use the term ‘registers’ in the Committee that the Riksrevision study concludes that the control of basic data and declarations by the tax authorities should be improved’. I listened carefully to what the Council of State said in the previous debate, and he underlined the same thing as an overall committee expresses in this area. It is quite clear to us that the system of pre-filled declarations is a very good system, which, in total, gives a great deal of assurance that the data that is there is correct and perhaps better than before, but nevertheless: when it is the tax rate that fills the tax returns for the citizens of the country, it is of course of great importance that the state, which assumes a great deal of responsibility here, ensures that the data contained in the pre-filled declarations are as correct as possible. As you can see, it is very important that the quality of the tax treatment is good, because this affects all of us. As the Council of State also said, we meet the tax rate evenly throughout our lives. The tax system enjoys a great deal of respect for the population, but it is of course very important that we jointly ensure – in the new era – that the tax system maintains its authority in all areas. As demonstrated by the suspension and notification from the National Audit Office, the tax administration received 54 million basic data from external activities in the income year 2008. It goes without saying that control of these data must be balanced against efficient resource use, and control of declarations and basic data must be seen in relation to the use of resources for other types of controls. That is why I say that the Committee has noticed at this point that the Ministry is not satisfied that the tax rate has failed to turn a large part of the resource use into an equation of companies and traders, and the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the tax rate should prioritise the control of these. The question is also whether there are other instruments than the control of individual data. This is also addressed. The study shows, inter alia: that information and guidance to external respondents can be appropriate and a good way to deal with it. In addition, the Committee has noted that the dialogue meetings of the tax administration with banks, insurance companies and other respondents are very positive. As has been said by several — including the Minister of Finance — the principle of non-discrimination is fully valid in central government, and of course it must also apply to tax administration. It is undoubtedly unfortunate, and is contrary to the general perception of justice, if equal cases are treated differently. In the course of the survey, the National Audit Office sent out six cases to the tax offices, in a so-called online survey, to see if there were significant variations in the treatment process. I would like to stress here from the Spokesman's Chair that unfortunately, it turned out that similar matters could be treated differently in the tax system. The Committee, like the National Audit Office, stresses that this is very unfortunate. I registered with satisfaction that the Council of State also paid attention to this point, and I have great confidence that the department is also working very seriously in this area to improve this. It's a unanimous setting that I'm presenting to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e761	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e777	The so-called Frøiland Committee of March 2001 was specifically asked to explore the significance of the follow-up to the pre-instructions of the Stortinge to the Government and the implications of the division of responsibilities between the Storinge and the Government. Selection defined preview instructions like ‘Formal decisions taken in plenary sittings requiring the Government to do something [[or do nothing]] A large part of this is the request decision, as it is called, meant the sample. The Supervisory and Constituent Committee examined the position of the Frøiland Committee at the Innst. S. No 210 for 2002–03, indicating that from 1999 onwards the government was required to submit a separate notification to the Stortinget on the follow-up to the request and investigation decisions of the Stortinget. According to the present Rules of Procedure of the Stortinget § 12, second paragraph, no. 9(b) under the terms of reference of the Control and Constitutional Committee, it is for the Committee to examine the annual notification by the Government of the request and investigation decisions. It is assumed that the government in the annual notification will explain what it has done, or intends to do, with the decisions taken in the Stortinget. The experience with the reports, as far as I can judge, is quite positive so far. The notification of the year is transparent and is clear. The notification shows that the number of request decisions reached a peak between 2002 and 2003 by 247 decisions. We can just wonder why. In comparison, in the period we are dealing with today, there are only eight requests decisions. The number dropped sharply from the 2004–2005 bottling session to the 2005–06 session. It may not be so strange considering that we now have a majority government, and that is why there are considerably fewer requests decisions. I have noticed that the government in the message emphasises that Storting will always receive clear feedback about the government's follow-up to the individual request decisions, and that the feedback is given in propositions or in messages. In addition, no investigative decisions have been taken in the 2009–2010 session. One of the request decisions from 2009 to 2010 may be accepted, while the other are maintained pending follow-up. The Committee also notes that of 12 cases from 2008 and 2009, eight remain under follow-up. The Committee has also obtained comments from the various expert committees. There is also part of the procedure that is here in the house regarding the treatment of Report. St. 4. Finally, let me underline what a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitution said when dealing with the Frøiland Committee, namely that decisions which are clearly and unambiguously a decision requiring a particular action can only be modified by a new decision in the Stortinget. If the Government cannot, or will not, follow up a decision, it must present a new case to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for a new decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e799	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e815	The chairperson of the Committee, Mr Anders Anundsen, has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e818	I look forward to making full use of that. No, this must be very short. The Committee has reviewed the minutes of the Government for the period from 1 January to 30. on June 2010, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which instruct us to do so. There have been no dissidents in the government during this period of time, nor have there been any comments from the Committee regarding the appointment of officials during the period. The Committee has also carried out regulatory checks, and we have also reviewed the list of rules given by means of delegated powers which are routinely transmitted from the ministries. There are many such regulations, and in the light of the review we have taken for this six-month period, there is no basis for comments. The Committee will endeavour to select some of these rules for further consideration in subsequent deliberations of the State Council Protocols. In the three minutes, the unanimous setting is presented. Since there are no comments, it is probably also appropriate to wish the government good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e845	I will present a unanimous vote by the Committee on a supplementary budget for this year of 3 million. kr in connection with the installation of a completely necessary fire-fighting system on the King's seat. A fire inspection which has shown that it is absolutely necessary to create a new stationary fire-fighting system, and the Committee agrees with the government's view on this allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e850	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e866	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e875	As usual on the last day of the harvest session, we will ‘create the dwelling’, for example: The King's seat fire-extinguishing equipment. It's now going to pay. Although this is not a new budget document, it is an important document — a technical audit, if you wish — for the financial year 2010. The commitment to re-balancing the government budget for 2010 includes proposals for changes to the government budget and a statement of changes adopted by the Storting or proposed in government proposals to date this year. In addition, proposals are made to repeal the Law on the State Petroleum Insurance Fund and amendments to the State Pension Fund Act as a result of proposals to liquidate the State Petroleum Insurance Fund. 2010 has been a contrasting economic year. The repercussions of the financial crisis continue to be felt by many countries in the world, and many of our closest cooperating countries are in a very difficult situation with both high unemployment and high government debt. This means dramatic cuts in public budgets in many countries. Many also experience painful changes with subsequent demonstrations, unrest and social tensions. The difference between the situation we are in in Norway and the situation we see in many places in Europe can be overwhelming in many ways. Norway is doing well, and the Norwegian economy is solid. But the danger of new crises is not over, and Norway too can be picked up by new economic setbacks. However, if there is something that the financial crisis has shown us, it is that the mechanisms we have built around Norwegian economic policy, which has a broad majority in the UK, are working well. The new aging confirms the impression that things are going well, actually far better than the government had foreseen last fall, and even better than both the government and the Storting had foreseen in the context of the revised national budget before the summer. Changes in the newly aged budget now entail further reductions in the so-called structural oil-corrected deficit compared to previous forecasts. It is now estimated at 111.6 billion. So it's going to be $5.2 billion. kr lower than the 2011 national budget. This well confirms that we can say that the Norwegian authorities have managed the country safely through the financial crisis. It ensures that we can further develop the Community solutions and the welfare society we have in Norway. The estimated use of oil revenues — just to comment briefly, because it is an essential part of Norwegian economic policy — now amounts to 14 billion. kr over what we call the expected real return on the capital of the State pension fund abroad at the beginning of the year. The reduction that I have now described is largely due to an increase in long-term income from taxes from the mainland, which is mainly due to taxes from business higher than those we applied to the 2010 national budget. In addition, there is some reduction in expenditure — mainly the lower costs of population protection than what we have previously estimated. Just briefly at last a few grips that the government proposes, which I will comment on in particular. For the country's dividend income, they are proposed to be reduced by 4.2 billion. kr in relation to the estimate in the national budget. This is due to the return of dividends received from Government. It is in line with the publication by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in November of this year that the share of State-owned property will be increased by a total of 14 billion. kr. This could enable Statkraft to realise a large-scale investment plan and once again consolidate its power as the engine for the development of environmentally friendly renewable energy both in Norway and internationally. I want to say here, too, from the government parties, that we are following the ambition of the Soria Moria II declaration that State power is going to be able to be just this. Changes in expenditure and income other than taxes and dividends contribute overall to reducing the oil-corrected deficit. In that calculation, it is also incorporated that the government proposes to increase the framework grant to the municipalities by 1 billion. 2010 kr for, among others to facilitate the strengthening of the work of a worthy care for the elderly. That's an increase of 25 pst. in relation to the estimated free resources in 2010. It strengthens the financial situation of the local government sector and improves the capacity of local authorities to do those tasks, among other things. in the case of elderly care for which they are provided. I will end by thanking the Financial Committee for good cooperation in the autumn. We have adopted a comprehensive government budget and many other important issues here in the United Kingdom. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish Christmas, if I do not want to have the floor later in the debate, and wish for a good debate on the ageing of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e896	Let me start by taking up the suggestions that the Advance Party is promoting in the vote, either alone or together with other parties. The effusion raises a little debate from time to time. That's interesting, part of what's in the new age even for the current year. In fact, this is the way the Committee's chairman was concerned about improving the budget balance by almost 100 billion. kr in one year. So Norway is much better off than the government has done in its budget adopted for 2010. Just since the revision, the balance has improved by over 44 billion. kr. It makes me think a little bit about the debate we had a little over a year ago, when we discussed the 2010 state budget and the options that came – so when you see how big a change it can be in a year. In particular, it is interesting to note all the skill that the Progress Party often receives in connection with our tax cuts – that it would be a disaster for the country if large tax cuts were to be carried out. This new aging is evidence that, on the contrary, they had been able to afford large tax cuts and have allowed people to keep more of their money. Nevertheless, there would have been a huge surplus on the state budget. For 2010, the estimate is now 163 billion. kr. It says something about the situation Norway is in, versus all of them, most of the other countries on this planet. I also think it's very interesting to notice that the government is reducing the estimate for the use of sick pay by 3.3 billion. kr. When we had the debate on the 2011 State Budget, the Progress Party proposed to reduce estimates for some of the social security budget items, etc. Then we were attacked by representatives of the government parties that when we reduce the estimates, we allegedly take cuts in social security schemes or cutters for day money or cuts in transfers to people most. What we did was we reduced our estimate. We believed in our own policies. When the government also now provides reduced estimates of these items, I guess that's because you expect to spend less money, and not because you cut into the schemes. So I hope, at least, that the debate on estimates regarding this kind of expenditure on the government budget will not be the next time, if necessary, an attack on the Progress Party to cut the arrangements. That's not what we're talking about. We're discussing where the estimates should be. It is gratifying that this kind of expenditure on the State budget actually goes down. The Progress Party is promoting some proposals in the new age that we believe are in place. The most important approach we take is to continue to focus on the situation that very many older caregivers experience in our 430 municipalities. Very many people do not get the care they are entitled to. There is little help with a regulation and guarantees from the government when many Norwegian municipalities in these days in their budgetary proceedings actually cut the budgets. That is why the Progress Party has been concerned that there should be more money. We are also promoting proposals in connection with the rehabilitating process that it can be transferred to the next year. We want an earmarked allocation for care for the elderly in Norwegian municipalities, both for the operation of care for the elderly, the operation of nursing homes and investment grants, so that more places are built. It's a total of 2 billion. kr in our proposals here. In addition, we have proposed that the police should be strengthened by 180 million. kr for the current year. That's because 180 million. kr is taken from the operating budget of the police and the ICT bet of the ear. For the next year, it's been said that you're going to take 250 million. kr of the police operating budget and earmarking ICT bets. This means fewer police officers, fewer operative police officers on duty, because the operating budget is used to make the necessary investments to upgrade ICT equipment. Now, when we're most likely for the current year, we're going to have a profit of 163 billion. In fact, it should be advised that the ICT bet needed by the police is taken as a separate grant and that the money allocated to the operation can be used by the police. Finally, I would like to point out the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting, together with the other opposition parties, to grant 30 million. kr to organisations such as the Fattighuset and the Salvation Army – organisations that, not least during this pre-Christmas period, do a great job. It's very important to very many of the poorest, those who are the worst in today's society, and who need help. It is important that we give them this hand bill through the re-degradation with proposals that the Progress Party is pleased that the opposition is standing together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e915	The representative Ulf Leirstein then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e918	Let me also, like the chairman of the committee, note that the recent ageing shows that Norway is doing a lot of good. We're going to enjoy that, while we're going to remind ourselves that we're also in a privileged situation, and that we have to take care of the good starting point we have. A little bit more joy to a Right-Man than going with profit. The fact that we're going out of this year with significant profits, too, is good, because it can create security for the future. We are concerned that the phasing-out should not be an ordinary budgetary round. When we keep budgetary discipline in the ordinary budgetary round and in the revised national budget, it is important that we also manage to keep it in the new era, which is the last adjustment before Christmas. The new ageing shows a significant difference in the structural oil-corrected deficit. From last year's national budget to today's date, the structural oil-corrected budget deficit has been reduced by 30 billion. kr. On the one hand, of course, it's a pleasure, because it shows that things have gone better in the Norwegian economy than we assumed. At the same time, we note from the Right that there is a technical debate on the correction of activity. We believe it is important that the Ministry of Finance is also open to that debate, and shows the will and ability to enter into that discussion. It's essential for the confidence in the activity correction that it hits so closely, and that it doesn't become common with as big anomalies as what we see this year. We recognize, of course, that the aftermath of the financial crisis makes time more uncertain, and that it can therefore be difficult to hit completely. As far as the government's proposals are concerned, we essentially support that. We're going against the return of the dividend to Statkraft. We believe that it is unfair to pay back a dividend. Instead, we've increased equity accordingly. We believe that it is a more correct way to strengthen the state power position instead of adjusting the dividends back and forth. At one point, the Right also promotes alternative proposals, and it relates to the situation of private and non-profit institutions in the areas of health, care, rehabilitation, drug use and psychiatry. There is a serious situation with regard to very many of these offers, not least for all users, when we see that many people now have to sit down, others put down. Reference is made by the Government to the fact that this is due to the tendering procedures. I think the government might seem a bit windy in its argument about the tendering system. At the same time, we know that there is also an ideological leadership behind it, namely that we want to give priority to the public's own offerings. Of course, from the Right, we believe that tenders are essential in this area as well, but they must be combined with predictability for non-profit institutions and private institutions, and the tendering process must also mean appreciating the diversity of the services they provide. Very good offers are now being built down. Oslo Hospital has been withdrawn. But we see it almost in all the counties of the country that the offer that has been built up over a very long time is now being built down. Therefore, the Right proposes that those who have lost their contract with health businesses be allowed to extend their contracts until the government has gone through the tendering systems themselves and we can have a more sustainable system, which allows us both to meet the need for open and verifiable processes, while building up the value of diversity and helping more people to get a good offer. Because that is the situation, that while private and ideals are building up, we know that health cows are increasing and that needs are increasing, and then we think it is absolutely wrong to go forward with ideological ideas about having less diversity and more publicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e937	I will link some comments to some themes that are affected, and some themes that have not been affected. The first concerns Statkraft. From the point of view of the SV, I would like to stress the joy that was also expressed by the Committee's chairman, that Statekraft is now being able to be a real engine for the development of new renewable energy. It's a pleasure. SV is very concerned that we are going to actively use state-owned companies to show direction and make sure that we get rid of private business, so that more people dare to bet in areas that we think are important. New renewable energy is clearly such an area. It is linked to climate problems, but it is also linked to the need to build up new strengths, including: in areas currently in deficit. So, in addition to that, we put restrictions on Statkraft's activities in terms of gaseous pollutants, and it's also positive. I would also like to highlight the strengthening of local government budgets as very important. There is also something that SV clearly states 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. Then it is that the opposition has in part made proposals to strengthen, among other things. organisations of the poor. That's what we think is positive. In the 2011 budget, we have also contributed to the strengthening of poor organisations. In particular, I want to mention this with social entrepreneurship, but also the possibility for children and young people to participate in outdoor life through the fact that we have given a grant to, among other things. the open-air organisations to ensure that more people can get into the forest and land. That is also important policy on equalisation. And dithering is a key chord that I want to pull in. Because it is clear that providing increased support to poor organisations is good. At the same time, however, it must also be seen that if one facilitates a development in which the differences between social groups in society are increasing, the problems of poverty are also increasing. It is not certain that it will keep giving a small increase to the poor's organisations, it may be necessary to provide significant funds. That is why I would like to take this opportunity once again to warn against the proposals behind, in particular, the Progress Party and the Right, such as removing the wealth tax, and also proposals for other social changes to the tax system. It may be worth noting that this year we have received the happy news that the differences in Norway are now actually decreasing. We've had a trend over very many years where the differences have increased. That trend has turned the government around, and we're going to support it further. On the part of the Financial Committee, too, we should keep a high focus on debt issues. Just before I got up here on the pulpit, I had a meeting with the Society of Poorlorge, and something they're especially concerned about, is of course, there's a growing problem with debt that people can't serve. Among other things, we have the situation in which municipalities are unable to provide real help to people. We've even been given examples of people who, during the time they've been in line waiting for debt advice, have increased their debt considerably. We have to tackle that problem. In addition, we need to address this with access to credit cards, the attitude to use credit cards, consumption loans and clearly also the high electricity costs that very many people will face. How are we going to ensure that people get the opportunity to manage their private finances? This is important that we discuss the next year. So to the theme of healing by the alternative state budget, which the representative Ulf Leirstein indirectly entered. He asked thinly that we have to understand how the Progress Party has prepared its budgets. We have no understanding of that, because it is simply not possible to conjure up to a fresher people just by taking over power. I do not believe that if the Advance Party and the Right had – theoretically – come to power from 1 January 2011, we would see that, for example. a quarter of the lonely in this country had suddenly been married. So happy I don't think they'd been over that Siv Jensen might have taken over the Prime Minister's chair. I would just like to mention the proposal to remove the debt of the bombers now, in a situation where we have such major problems related to air pollution that, for example. Kids in this town have to stay inside, and not to talk about them in Bergen: children's doctors move out on the Day Revy and ask families of children to move away from there. I think that's pretty presumptuous. Merry Christmas, by the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e958	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e961	The recent ageing of the State budget 2010 is a useful review of the state financial situation. The Financial Committee has discussed the 2010 budget three times in the past – both in the autumn of 2009, in the context of the revision in spring 2010 and in October 2010 in the context of the 2011 budget. It's, as many have been involved, ever-increasing numbers showing improved government finances. There are many who look at Norway’s figures in terms of development. Now it's the effusion that shows further improved numbers. So we are in the situation that from the 2010 state budget until now, the structural oil-corrected deficit is reduced by about 30 billion. kr. As it says in the setting, there are extraordinary, big changes, and that gives you reason for some reflections. What is the main reason for much less deficit is the combination of low unemployment, lower social security costs and what very few talk about, I think, is a huge real wage increase for many workers who have a strong position in the labour market. But not everyone has a strong position in the world of work. Therefore, not least the government must be very vigilant with regard to these groups, because now the changes are so great that the consequences will also quickly be high in terms of an economically friendly society. It is therefore central to the government’s efforts to implement economic policy in 2011 to focus heavily on, among other things. wage-fixing, income-fixing and fiscal policies, so as to ensure an improvement in the standard of living. In addition, it is demanding when the level of wages and salaries in Norway is developing more than in the past than in our competitors. It is now not difficult to meet Swedish-speaking workers in Norway, which is a picture of what is happening, namely that an applicant for Norway because this is both work and well paid work. This is also not difficult to experience from companies in Norway, which experience an increasingly tough competition with Swedish companies, because the level of costs in Sweden in a few years has changed dramatically in our disfavor. There's a lot of talk about the international financial crisis. I think that far too few people talk about the phase in which the international financial crisis is now rapidly entering, that is, a sovereign debt crisis that is far, far more serious than the first phase of the financial crisis, in the opinion of the Central Party. In a number of countries it has to be met with a reduction in public consumption and an increase in taxes and taxes. But the most demanding thing is that one is now in a situation where more and more signals are being given that a number of countries with major difficulties, probably, will be able to service their debt, and that we will face a situation where one must address different forms of debt write-down. This will be a completely new situation, which could easily lead to a dramatic, unstable situation. I would like to say it so strongly: this issue should be discussed in the Grand Duchy as soon as possible because it has a maritime impact on our competitive situation and on our own economic policy, when we know that we have significant investment in debt securities in Europe, among other things. Finally, a concrete entry in the effusion is ‘Protection of funds for road purposes’. It says: ‘The Ministry of Transport has so far not included spraying of tolls into the total spraying operations covered by the mandate limit. The Ministry of Transport proposes to change this practice and will come back to proposals for lifting the mandate limit in 2011.’» That's good and necessary. It is necessary to provide a coherent picture of the appropriations and advances in order to ensure that the need for investment related to road objectives is adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e983	I think, like previous speakers, that it is well worth spending a few minutes in which situation this country is currently in, versus the majority of other European countries, at least many of the Western European countries. Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland may be some countries that certainly envy what we are doing here today, which shows that we have a strong economy, which goes even better than what was foreseen for 2010. However, as the representative Lundtigen also pointed out, the structural changes taking place in Europe will also have an impact on Norway. And the faster we see what challenges it is, not least in terms of our competitive economy, the better it will be. This, I suppose, deserves a debate of its own. I will therefore use the few minutes we have in this debate to, first of all, address the proposals we are promoting in the vote and briefly justify them. Our additional appropriations in the case of Nav are simply justified by the fact that many of these offices are now in a very stressed situation. The situation that is heavily under pressure means that there are fewer people who get help. This is how we propose, among other things: an increase in Enova’s budget. These measures have dried up, literally, so that Enova is now empty of funds that can contribute to energy efficiency. Then it's those organizations that work specifically with the poor. No Marte Thorkildsen was a little uncertain whether there was anything particularly better of a 30-million grant. kr. Well, at least I'm absolutely sure it won't get any worse. I know with certainty that at least the organisations we are talking about here are very good at using the money that this will generate. It is probably enough to look at the reports from the Salvation Army and the Poor House to see that they can come along well as early as 2010. Finally, an important point, which was also raised by Jan Tore Sanner, namely the relationship with the state/public partner in the health and social sector. Oslo Hospital has become the major symbolism that shows that political governance is necessary to maintain a differentiated health offer, an offer that hits an important patient group, but that today’s Health Norway is not doing well. We've had this debate for a long time, but I just have to admit that at least I have a Christmas wish – if I can express it – that the government spends time and effort on this, gets a solution and takes political action. That's actually what's needed. For me, it's a mystery that it's completely unreasonable – according to red-green thinking – to put Grandma out to tender, while in the case of drug addicts, child-rescue children, psychiatric patients, it's the Tut-and-Driving policy that's going on, and it's with significant negative consequences for those affected. The point here is not primarily that you're gliding out ideals. The score, e.g. in the case of Oslo Hospital, health south-east cannot actually offer adequate treatment after removing Oslo Hospital from an agreement as they wish. And what do you say? We will then see if we can increase the budget framework. But that means that those who have won the bid have won it on false premises. They have won a bid for a premise to treat patients who are of a completely different category than those who are actually at Oslo Hospital today. One would like to owe health to the South-East and the companies in this way, but at the end of the day it is a political responsibility. We have seen that far too little that the government wants to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e998	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1002	I take the floor to explain one of the Left's proposals in the vote. It is gratifying that the cost of health money has been reduced by nearly 3 billion. NOK in relation to the level we previously assumed it would be in 2010. The left suggests that this money be used for a powerful technology lift in Nav. There are repeated documents and pointed out that today’s out-of-date computer system is the main cause of Nav’s many problems during the start-up phase and with which the organisation is still struggling. Within Nav there are three different data platforms and hundreds of different systems within them again. I believe that this is not acceptable and therefore proposes a powerful lift to do something about it now. Such a one-off investment is now likely to save the budget for significant annual resources for the maintenance and safety upgrade of a very old and low-functional system. I stress that the proposal for increased appropriations should not be part of ordinary operations, but should be part of a targeted investment in the future. By stopping using computer systems from the 1980s, Nav staff will save a lot of time and resources that can instead be used for targeted guidance and help for the many who need the establishment's assistance. Director of Nav Finnmark Inge Hill, for example, says: as in the Finnmark newspaper: ‘We need to relate to five-six computer systems. Where case handlers need to switch between different computer systems. If we had a computer system, we would have a much more efficient way of working." It is essential that this is cleaned up as soon as possible. No one has earned an inefficiencies in Nav – not the employees, and not the ones that the employees are set to help. The consequences of not doing it already appear. ICT investment needs to come, and if it is to happen within the current economic framework, it will go beyond other activities. We've already seen examples of this by reducing it by 160 positions in the first line service. The representative Geir Pollestad of the Senterpartiet said in connection with Stortinget's consideration of the budget proposal from the Ministry of Labour – Innst. 15 S – Tuesday 7 December 2010 as follows: «In the end, I want to get into the ICT system in Nav. It's a challenge. We should have come further than what we have done, but the budget carries out a bid that you are in the process." I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance on this claim. Are we really doing this process? And is it a good process if money for the necessary investments is at the expense of the first line service in Nav, as all indications are the consequences of the budget now adopted for 2011? The result of the 2011 adopted budget is that Nav has to cut 161 million. kr for operation next year, which in turn leads to cut in crew. The consequences are natural enough for the activity to be subdued in the first line service and for several users not to receive help. For example, hubs on the South have not the money to deposit temporary workers in the event of sickness or maternity leave. Regret that government positions and transfers were cut without fewer jobs, led to the Nav managers in Kristiansand and Kvinesdal cancelling their jobs a short time ago. There are several similar examples elsewhere in the country that conditions in Nav are not going to improve significantly in the coming years. The left has no tradition of using the rebalancing age and of promoting a number of proposals for new appropriations. We don't do it this time either, but we're proposing an important one-off investment so that Nav actually becomes the important tool that wants it to be. I'll bring this up to the left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1034	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1037	First, I want to hit a little bit for the new-age proposition itself. It's a very readable document. I expect everyone in the finance committee has read it. But it will also apply to everyone else, because it provides an excellent overview of what we do in economic policy, and what we spend money on. So I've recommended the proposition. It should be stored in such a way as to be easily accessible. The impression is, as many people have said, that the Norwegian economy is in very good condition. We have a strong economy in Norway that differs in many ways from what is happening in many countries around us. Let me just associate some comments with it now at the tamp of the 2010 budget year. My generation has largely experienced a continuous growth in the economy and a rise almost without stopping. There has been an uninterrupted growth in welfare and wealth over my generation. This is not something that has happened overnight; it has been happening for a long time and is the result of both targeted work and efforts by many people in both historical and contemporary times. It underlines one of the most central points of the economic debate: how important it is to continue what I call the generation contract – the fact that generations work with each other objectively and work purposefully to ensure that we can also ensure the well-being of the years to come. It is not natural that this will continue automatically. There are major challenges nationally — the demographic revolution, which we can mention as, climate challenges, etc. It is also important that the generational contract is now extended beyond the purely economic perspective and that the climate and environmental perspective be included. We have large natural resources in Norway from which we benefit, but it is also the case in Norway as it is in most other countries, that it is the value of the labour force, the development of the labour force, which determines what the future will be like. The development of the welfare of the future is determined in the labour market. I also want to say that it is important that we see the big in the small, that as politicians we help build up under the pride and dignity of all the people who keep the social wheels going, all the little wheels that make sure that the big wheel is moving all the time, these people who every day in their place make a effort for us all, but who rarely or never get in the paper. Let me also say a few words about the international economy. The picture is very varied. In emerging economies there is a strong growth. China is right here, with a growth of at the base of 10 pst. Germany and Sweden are doing well in Europe, but the picture in Europe is much more varied. In America, growth is still weak. Although growth is on the rise again, there is a concern about the high unemployment rate that we have both in the OECD area and in other countries, and there is reason to worry about the development of unemployment among young people. I think there is a need for a more comprehensive international effort and strategy to address the challenges of youth unemployment, so that we avoid the description of the time we are now in, and also a description of the generation of young people as the lost generation. This is one of our greatest common challenges in the future. Like several speakers, we are part of a global destiny. Although Norway is doing well, it is important that we also look up and look at ourselves in a wider international context. It's important to think about it, not least in the time we're going into, where we have the opportunity to vent thoughts about these things. I would like to thank the Financial Committee for its good cooperation and look forward to new debates on the economy in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1059	Let me first wish the Minister of Finance Christmas and thank you for the cooperation we have had during the year we now have. We very much appreciate the dialogue that the Minister of Finance has with us in the Committee on Finance, and wish us good luck. So to the question. Now it's like, as I was in my contribution earlier today, that the budget balance has improved by almost 100 billion. kr in relation to the budget adopted for 2010. Out of a budget of about 1 000 billion. kr is it 10 pst. We are talking about – a fairly large proportion of this budget is in the direction of improvement. Does the Minister of Finance reflect on the way in which the budgeting system and the way in which it is calculated in the Ministry of Finance turn out when there may be such great fluctuations in the course of a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1066	We had an interesting debate here yesterday on both the budgetary system and the budgetary system. It is clear that the challenge in terms of estimates in the economy is that, at times when the economy fluctuates a lot, it becomes more difficult to estimate. So it's so important that we have it with us in this discussion. But first of all, the results we are now seeing in 2010 are the result of a better performance in the Norwegian economy. We've had a strong growth in the underlying tax revenue. We now see, towards the end of the year, that there will be a real decline in the pay-out both for sick pay and for asylum seekers. A once-in-a-lifetime effect of shutting down the State Petroleum Insurance Fund, which will operate in 2011 is important, and it is primarily what strengthens the budget balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1073	I assume that the Minister of Finance shares my view of the importance of trust in the budgetary system and in the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, and I assume that the Minister of Finance takes on board what I said, and our remarks in the position. My line is related to the theme that the Minister of Finance raised, namely the dignity of people who stand on every day, and all the little wheels. An important part of the small wheels in our society are the voluntary non-profit organisations, private actors, which provide a fantastic range of drugs, psychiatry, rehabilitation – in many areas. We now see that many of these offers are being reduced, while the needs are increasing. Will the Minister of Finance now come back quickly with changes to the system that will enable us to secure both the private and the non-profit organizations, which provide such a fantastic offer to so many people in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1080	First of all, I just want to tell the representative, Sanner, that the Ministry of Finance will be constantly working on making better estimates, better forecasts. It's an ongoing work. In that context, I have noticed what the representative Sanner said. So for this government, both the voluntary sector and the non-profit sector are important. This has also been achieved through the strengthening that we have given, among other things. through appropriations, VAT refunds, etc., which are important for the voluntary sector. I would also like to stress that the voluntary sector plays a major role, and will continue to play an important role in the work of drug users and others, because this complements the public offer in a good way. I can assure the representative Sanner that this is an area that has a lot of attention in the government, and we will, of course, also, when we have something to report, come to the Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1087	Just a comment on the previous line. I hope that's something you'll report quickly. I don't think anyone is in any doubt about, if you read the bulk of the population, that there is a strong impatience in the red-green parties too to change what I would call the rather passive approach that the government has had in the area so far. So to what the Minister of Finance took up, which you can call a little forward-looking look at the economy. An important issue that probably comes in 2011 is a new disability pension. How important does the Minister of Finance think that a reformed disability pension is, in relation to the need he pointed out, for a healthy and strong economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1094	As far as the voluntary sector is concerned, I would also like to refer to what happened in the 2011 budget, and what was then done by the majority of the population in budgetary positions in order to strengthen efforts in relation to the volunteers. They will continue to play an important role, both in terms of the need we see, but also in terms of providing a good quality offer. The impoverishment reform is important as an adaptation to and follow-up to the pension reform. There are two things I want to underline. One is that it's important that you look at the challenge that the large number of people out of work represents. So the line of work, as we call it, is that as many as possible of those who are at disadvantage, or those who are temporarily out of work, are given an opportunity in the workplace. It is a basic plank in the whole of the disaster reform. The second is, of course, to ensure that those who are disabled and disabled receive security of income and security for the future. The two main points I believe are that we should be able to fulfil in the disaster reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1103	The Minister of Finance was concerned with the climate and the environment of his contribution. My question is about the extensive budgeting relating to the purchase of climate allowances. The left has pointed it out in four consecutive budgets and also in relation to the current budget, and what we see is that it is budgeted with 1.2 billion. NOK for the purchase of climate allowances. At best, you're going to spend 135 million. kr. This is money that we believe could have been used quite differently. My question to the Council of State is: why do you run such a kind of symbol budgeting, as the Left sees it, and does the Minister of Finance intend to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1111	First, I forgot in my post to respond to something that the representative Tenden mentioned in his main post about the relationship with Nav and the introduction of new technology in Nav. There we are now going to carry out impact assessments linked to it, and the government will come back to Stortinget with that matter as soon as the investigations are carried out. As regards the purchase of climate allowances, it is an important part of the government’s policy to over-achieve Norway’s targets in relation to the Kyoto Agreement. What's demanding is to have a good budgeting of what's going to be needed in the coming year. It is both because things happen in the climate quota market and because purchases can be deferred. We're going to do what we can to try to give as good an estimate as possible in the budget, but it's been because it's been a bit difficult to budget for real needs. That is why we have seen major changes throughout the year in that budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1118	The government chooses to use 1 billion. extra for the municipal economy in the context of the ageing budget, and this is done because more revenue has been received than calculated. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: the reason why you don't. have spent more money on the care of the elderly in the past – because the deficiencies are out there in the municipalities – is there a lack of money? Why is 1 billion spent? kr, and not 2 br. kr or 5 brd. Do you really want to delete this item? 1 billion. kr is 1 pst. of the increased revenue received. What's the reason why you suddenly find room for 1 billion? kr now, and haven't found it before?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1123	Now this government has made a significant effort to increase revenue in the local government sector. If you look at the increase since 2005, it is formidable. It has provided a basis for strong growth in the provision of municipal services over the years, including in the care of the elderly, and will continue to be strongly encouraged in the future. The 2011 budget also includes significant growth in the local government economy, but we saw it in the context of the ageing process that there is a large unmet need in the municipalities in some areas, and that is why we are proposing to grant 1 billion. extra kr in 2010. 1 billion. NOK is a terrible amount of money, but I see that there may be different opinions about how much 1 billion. kr is, and that it might have been more, but we all believe that this government ensures the local government sector in Norway a good and strong income development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1130	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Votation, see page 2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1148	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1157	The proposal by the minority in the Committee on VAT exemption for e-books is identical to a proposal that was debated in the spring of 2010. The various parties seem to conclude in the same way as when we debated the proposal in May. Most of what was said in the debate at that time is probably still valid. Norway is a small language community with a long tradition of exempting the printed word from VAT. The question of how e-books fit into this picture has created a lot of debate. The Minister of Finance is concerned with ensuring a level playing field for Norwegian and foreign e-books. There is a work of government parties supporting it. The opposition wishes to include e-books in the VAT exemption applicable to literature. That proposal shall not be given a majority within the Committee. I refer to the comments and the position in which the parties comment on the proposal. My view is that this type of debate is best suited to a wider context of how we want Norway to allocate its resources as a whole and how we should set up support schemes. With regard to the VAT system, my view is that, first of all, there should not be too many rates and exceptions. In this case, governance and interpretation are complicated, and society will use resources to adapt to the system. Secondly, Stortinget should be guided by how we prioritise support for good purposes in relation to each other, and we should have a sense of how much support different measures should have. This is easier to achieve with direct budget cuts than with tax exemptions. Thirdly, a system of VAT exemptions means that the industry gains more benefit from the scheme when trade goes well than when trade goes bad, and the need for support may be stronger. Similarly, the more popular they are, the more popular they are. So it's the popular, wide-ranging release of the VAT exemption that primarily supports. There is a point similar to one that has been debated in the light of the position of the Media Support Committee that emerged yesterday. Fourth, a general exemption from VAT applies to publications in both Norwegian, English and other languages. If the aim is to promote Norwegian literature, there may be more targeted methods. There are good arguments for non-discrimination between books and e-books, but these are also the effects of VAT exemptions, which I think it is important to think carefully, if we are in favour of changes. I'm pleased with the technological development that gives us the opportunity to read e-books. Modern technology creates a number of new opportunities. I would like to take part in a discussion about how we can treat different technologies in a non-discriminatory way, organise for authors and promote Norwegian font culture. But I think it is a debate that should be seen in a broad context, and where it is not given that the VAT exemption that was right in the 1960s is the best way to promote electronic solutions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1168	What's an e-book? It's a new platform for the written word and literature. It is possible to read a book on reading boards and iPad. Proposals for equal treatment of the e-book with the paper and audio books have been promoted before in the hall here and have been voted down. But it can seem like something old-fashioned and slightly forward-looking not to equate literature – like the paperbook, audiobook and e-book with parallel publications. We're trying to keep track of time, but we have a lot of examples that this isn't always the case here. We often come back, and later we discuss what we should have done. But why don't you do it now? I'm afraid we're going to lose the Norwegian language, at least that it gets competition. I'm afraid we're having problems with Norwegian literature – Norwegian authors, Norwegian publishers, Norwegian bookstores, which is the expertise. Norwegian literature and the Norwegian language are threatened. The e-book is the new platform, a reading platform where you can download, as I said – a reading board and an iPad. It is a modern form of distribution. One should not be a snäsaman or a princess to see that the Norwegian language will face strong competition from the English language, which is also a significant player in this important cultural field. It doesn't matter that the Storting will follow in time. The industries – and I mean the bookstore industry, the publishing industry – have told me how important this is precisely to equalise this literary body. A large-scale launch of Norwegian e-books has been put on ice, which I find regrettable in these Christmas seasons. It's just now that you could have loaded your reading boards and your iPads full of good Norwegian books. This is cultural policy, not charging policy. My claim is that it will not cost the state five cents. Norway is the most widely read country in Europe. You just want to move the reading from paperbook to e-book, to the new reading board. There is an incomprehensible discrimination between printed and electronic versions, and the reason for this is to have revenues, to have more charges. This is assessed by the economists of the Ministry of Finance, while key cultural values are at risk, and the Minister of Culture is placed on the sideline. This will be the beginning of a decline in literary Norway. Yesterday, the Media Support Committee presented its position regarding newspapers. Now you see where this carries for Norwegian literature. The committee has decided that there should be VAT on everything that is digital. Parts of the sample will also have VAT on paper newspapers – 8 pst. on everything. But that's just the beginning that there will also be VAT on literature. I'm not going to put a lot of dollars on that this will also be a topical issue next year, and then we'll discuss almost the same or maybe the exact same thing, and it's just that the paperbook is being equated with the e-book – that it gets VAT. So this is a turning point for literature. I would like to address the proposal that the Advance Party has with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1187	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1190	The right is part of the proposal to introduce tax exemptions, VAT exemptions, e-books, just as we do today for paper books. The right focus on the linguistic and cultural aspect, not on the fiscal policy aspect when we talk about VAT on e-books. This year's Christmas present in 2010 is likely to be the iPad. It harmonizes with the launch of a Norwegian e-book portal. Several are given the option to download. What you see is that it's the young generation that first uses these tools. The size should know that, fortunately, more and more of the young people read books more and more in English and more in other languages, and the historical justification for letting Norwegian literature be cheap has been that no one in Norway should use the price as an argument for not buying books. In particular, e-books are probably dependent on having a lower price than other books. The problem for Norwegian e-books is that we have significantly fewer users to divide the cost by than countries with users who read English, American, German or the large Asian languages. Therefore, it has been a point for the Right to continue the cultural protection provided by the VAT exemption also in the digital platform. It is the irony of fate that books on paper, which pollute through transport and printing, have exemption from VAT, while books as one can download at a keypress, are to be paid 25 pst. VAT on. It's quite strange that the government has such an angle of incidence here. In order to strengthen the Norwegian language in the future, language policy must be technology-neutral. E-books are cheaper, they're faster, they're more flexible, they're more accessible, they're more environmentally friendly, and they're constantly updated instead of one having to wait for the next edition. In addition, books on paper are VAT-free, audiobooks – which to some extent are part of the technological development here – are VAT-free, but suddenly when it comes to e-book, the tax agents in the Ministry of Finance have taken over. This suggests that progress may be a little too fast for the government to act in terms of cultural policy. We saw that the Media Support Committee yesterday did not make just one recommendation, but there were many recommendations regarding VAT. There is a whole bunch of proposals – different VAT rates on newspapers, e-newspapers, online newspapers or what it might be. This shows that the government is in doubt about what one actually wants with cultural policy VAT. This is seen in relation to the Media Support Committee. I am also going to challenge the Minister of Finance in the reply exchange afterwards on the government's view of this. Right-wing wants to support the proposal we have been making on the Financial Committee that e-format books are, of course, exempt from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1209	I was the case rapporteur when we discussed a similar proposal from the Progress Party in May this year. All opposition sections went in at the time, as in today's setting, to treat books and literature in the VAT system in a non-discriminatory manner, whether it is read in a physical book, heard through an audio book or experienced on an electronic reading board. That's the only logical thing in my view and in my view of the Left, and that's an important principleal point of view. At the last reading, government parties also argued very strongly. The working party argued solely on the grounds of the state treasury, SV tried on a spat, where it was a bit too and a bit opposed to equalising all literature, and the Senterpartiete elaborated on a long reasoning on what was defined as a commodity and what it is defined as a service in the VAT Code. I have noticed that neither the SV nor the Senterpartiet take the floor in this matter today. I see that all the government parties have now fallen on the Workers' Party's argument that it is the consideration of the treasury that is the bearing argument. In this context, it might be interesting to hear what it really is that justifies today's VAT exemption for physical books and audiobooks. The argument put forward against VAT exemptions in electronic literature could just as well have been brought forward against the exemption of VAT on physical books and audiobooks. For example, the suspension of the proposal states that the amount of aid granted by the State by way of exemption will be significantly higher for popular publications with a large sales volume than for smaller ones that sell small ones. That's exactly what's happening under today's regime. We have had several rounds around the government's proposal to introduce VAT on electronic services supplied from abroad, which will enter into force on 1 July. In my view and in my view of the Left, this is a proposal which has no other function than to bring in increased income to the Treasury and to make things more expensive and less accessible to Norwegian citizens. A number of things still appear unclear, not least how the government intends to penalise companies and websites that will not pay VAT to the Norwegian State Treasury, but which will nevertheless offer electronic literature free of VAT. When you look at this strange difference in definition between what is a good or not it is: can the Minister of Finance explain to me the logic that there should be VAT exemptions if you, for example. give away a plastic physical gift card to a bookstore for the purchase of books, while VAT is required if you give away a plastic physical gift card to iTunes or other websites offering electronic goods? Because that's what it is – goods – even though the government never defines it as much as a service. It could be interesting, as I'm probably not getting a reply, to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment of how it works. It's my stable tip that it's not going to be up and standing on July 1st – fortunately, I had almost said.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1224	This is one thing that, when you hear the debate, is about several things. Of course, it's about cultural policy, some of which are involved. But it's also the most important thing to provide the community with income, and I think it's no small noble purpose to have good systems that ensure that the community gets income for many of the tasks that the community is going to do. There is today an exemption from printed books and it provides indirect support of about 1.3 billion. kr, so that the question of exemption from e-books is a question of additional support. E-books and paperbooks are not identical products, and e-books are likely to have a different use than printed books, so that sales of e-books are expected not only to replace the sale of printed books. Now I'm not going to get involved in a long, technical debate, but there's a lot of opportunities to develop the reading board itself into a product that goes far beyond just reading a book. What I think is important in whatever form the aid is granted, whether it is tax exemption or otherwise, is that it has to be given as efficiently as possible, and that one ensures that each crown, so to speak, goes to further the desired purpose. With regard to the VAT system itself, it should probably be such as to have a broad VAT base, to be as simple as possible and to be as low as possible. In the survey I referred to earlier today, on the comparison between Norway and other countries with regard to the simplicity of reporting to the tax authorities, we score high on direct taxation, but we score much worse on the relationship with the VAT system, and I am convinced that one of the reasons for this is that the system in Norway is somewhat more complicated because there are more rates and that it is a narrower basis. The exemption we now have for printed books and newspapers is over 40 years old. It was established at a time that looks a little different than today. Of course, defining a physical book, or a newspaper, has also raised some delimitation issues over time, but it has been to deal with. An extended exemption to e-books will create new and larger demarcation problems, and I think it will be significantly more difficult to separate e-books and e-news from other digital content. It is also true that the VAT Directive in the EU clearly states that reduced rates can be applied to books such as goods, but not to electronic services, including e-books. This understanding has been confirmed by the European Commission in its response to parliamentary questions in E-3109/2010 on 14 June 2010. So what we're facing in Norway is not a strange development, but it's part of an international development. Then it is shown that the Media Support Committee took its position yesterday, and it is correct, as has also been said in the debate, that there are many different views. It does show, however, that there are considerable doubts about what should be the future system. Now this NOU is going to go to a comprehensive consultation, and I think it would be natural to take a more thorough and comprehensive debate on the VAT system and the media support system when the government comes to the Stortinget with an assessment of what is in the Media Support Committee, including what emerges from the consultation process. I think it makes sense for one to have such a broad and comprehensive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1241	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1244	This is a new cultural policy. This is also a new way of treating literature. I now understand that the Minister of Finance has read through the position of the Media Support Committee and that everyone agrees that VAT should be applied on everything digitally. They are looking at and considering whether it should also be put on paper newspapers. So what I understand is that the Minister of Finance wants to treat paper books and e-books in the same way, and then I see that VAT is also being added to paper books. Is it the case that the Council of State, at next year's budget, will put forward a proposal that there should also be VAT on paperbooks? I think it's an advantage to also prepare the industry for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1249	I think it's way too early to advance a debate based on the position of the Media Support Committee. For physical reasons, to put it that way, I have not had time to read the settings of the Media Support Committee, but I have had the opportunity to look at part of the review in today's newspapers, etc. I think it's important now that we add up to an overall discussion of what the Media Support Committee is going through, and that we also facilitate a broad discussion in the Stortinget. Then I would also like to say that I am a dedicated member of the Norwegian language and the good dialects, and it is important to stress that the exemption we have today for books applies to both Norwegian and foreign text. Any exemption from e-books will also have to include the same. So I think that the challenge of preserving and taking care of and developing the Norwegian language may go far beyond a discussion about possible VAT exemptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1257	I want to start by wishing the Minister of Finance Christmas. Then I hope that the Minister of Finance will get a book for Christmas, and in the interests of the donor you get hope it's a paperbook, so that the donor comes from it as cheap as possible. Otherwise, I would also like to congratulate you on the day in relation to the audit obligation. The Minister of Finance has really done a good job parking both SV and LO. I hope he keeps on doing that in the new year. Anniken Huitfeldt has stood on the pulpit here in Stortinget and said that the battle for VAT on e-books is not decided in the government. When we hear the Minister of Finance, when we read the State Budget, and not least when we hear the Secretary of State of the Minister of Finance, is my question to the Minister of Finance: Is Anniken Huitfeldt right in saying that the issue of VAT on e-books is not decided by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1266	Only with regard to the audit obligation: although it is not a topic for this discussion, it is a good, unified proposal from the entire government that all the government parties are behind, and there has been an important effort by all the government parties to come up with the proposal we now have. That's what I've been told. As I said, when one is going to discuss the position of the Media Support Committee and the hearing opinions that are coming, it means – it is in the nature of the matter – that there will be a discussion within the government about what will be the main lines of the policy ahead. That is something that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture will naturally deal with when we get that discussion. But my view is that it is important that Norway also has systems for charging e-books, which to a large extent is an international one. It is important that we take account of international developments, and that was also due to the consideration behind the bill that was promoted and adopted in the context of the financial situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1273	In my post I talked about the electronic service provided from abroad being up and going by 1 July. So my simple question is, how's the momentum? Will it be like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1278	That proposal was adopted in the context of the examination of the State budget, and the Government's plan and progress is that this should be done as of 1 July. So there's nothing at all. Which means we're going to change that plan. We shall also ensure that we have progress in this matter which makes it possible to introduce it from 1 July. In the work we are going to do in the future, we will, of course, also refer to what is happening internationally, because this is also – as I said before – part of an international development, where one sees that it is important to ensure the basis of charges, because an increasing proportion of turnover will occur via the network and via electronic media, which nobody had thought about in Norway when the VAT system was introduced in 1967.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1285	So the line change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1303	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1312	The issue we are about to deal with is promoted by representatives of all the opposition parties. There is a request to submit a proposal to amend the individual pension saving scheme — IPS — net of general income for annual payments of up to DKK 40000 and a request to change the housing saving scheme for young people — BSU. The whole committee believes it is positive that a saver saves money to secure the pensioner's life financially. It is also positive that young people who have occasion to do so save for their own housing. But we have different perceptions of tax favouring different savings and whether it stimulates more savings overall. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Council of State when, in his letter to the Committee, he expresses the view that there are sound arguments in principle against favouring the tax treatment of certain types of savings. Research shows that such tax-advantage does not lead to more overall savings, but primarily affects the composition of already existing savings. The main means of ensuring the economic viability of pensioners are, moreover, the social security and compulsory occupational pensions. The ability of people to save beyond what is set aside in the collective arrangements varies, but those with the highest incomes have the greatest potential. The IPS is a saving scheme primarily for those who have the means to dispose of the collective schemes. IPS was removed in 2007 but reintroduced in 2008 in the context of the pension agreement. An increase in the amount of the deduction from the scheme must, in the majority’s view, also be assessed from an allocation point of view. Young people entering the housing market are more likely to save money in advance. Therefore, the BSU is good for those who have the opportunity to put aside money in order to purchase housing. The majority are therefore satisfied that the ceiling for the scheme was raised to NOK 150 000 in the previous period. The majority agree with the proposers that housing is important for the Nordics. It's also the largest savings object we have. Adding to the purchase of a dwelling is positive, but it is actually also possible to save money without a tax deduction. Whether the BSU scheme is to be made even more favourable is also an assessment with allocation considerations in itself. It is not certain that we will meet them with the greatest challenges of establishing ourselves in the housing market by making the BSU even better for those who have the opportunity to make use of the scheme. This must be part of the overall assessment. We do not disagree that saving is positive. On the contrary, several would have restricted private consumption and saved more. But, as I said, there are always more considerations to be taken into account about whether to tax incentives for individual savings schemes. I assume that the IPS scheme and the deduction limit for that scheme will be assessed in the context of further efforts to adapt the private pension schemes to a new retirement pension, which will enter into force from 1 January 2011. I have first of all explained the majority's views on the matter. Others will explain the views of the proposers. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1334	Very few countries have the same level of public savings as Norway. The central government pension fund is close to 3500 billion. kr. This corresponds to more than 600000 kroner per Norwegian. Public savings at the level of Norway have enormous consequences, simply because it has never been tried before. Will our growing national wealth be used for future retirement pensions, as the rationale for setting up the fund was? Or are we just going to use the return of the fund to buy out of challenges other countries have to solve through value creation and economic growth? Developments in recent years are not particularly uplifting in this way. A growing number of people have been voluntarily or involuntarily excluded from the labour market and made interest-raters through various social welfare schemes. In other words, there's still fewer. Today, an overall opposition promotes two proposals that highlight an important ideological difference between position and opposition. These proposals provide an opportunity for each of them to take greater responsibility for their own economic future. The Progress Party believes that increasing private savings should be an objective and that we should put in place mechanisms to stimulate such savings. An improved individual pension saving scheme using the tax system actively is such an incentive. Saving for your own pension is in itself valuable, precisely because it will help make fewer pensioners unilaterally dependent on the benefits of popularism. Housing saving for young people is another positive saving scheme, which makes young people more responsible, more independent and more economically independent. BSU gives young people an opportunity to take responsibility. The opposition therefore calls on the government, through this proposal, to submit a proposal for improvements, both in terms of annual savings and maximum amounts, and that the percentage of deduction and the age limit be assessed increased. In recent years, AS Norway has experienced significant profits. Such profits have often been described as one-sided positive – not least in the previous debate we had, that was the case. But it's not safe. What does it really mean that a country is going with profit? A country sells nothing. A country initially has no income. But a country can own natural resources, and a country can use taxpayers' money, borrow money, or print money to buy up private businesses. However, a surplus in the national accounts means that the state has more money available than a majority of the Stortinget believes is necessary or appropriate to operate Norway. The money primarily involves the country in various taxes and taxes. In a private company, this would not be complicated. A profit would either have gone to strengthen the company's equity, pay off debt or be paid in dividends to the owners. But who owns Norway? It is fairly obvious that Norway is owned by its inhabitants. We all have one share in our own country. One could then think of a different solution than ever to accumulate capital on state hands, for example. more people could be allowed to retain more of their own income through tax relief, reduced corporate taxation, or eliminated or reduced taxes. In this way, we could make Norway a priority country for value creation, with framework conditions for other countries difficult to compete with. But we don't. We save through the purchase of shares in our competitors. It is not a strategy that will help to make Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian labour more competitive in the future. That is not the intention either. But perhaps the strategy should be changed, so that it is precisely our future competitiveness that is given priority. Tax-stimulated savings, both for retirement and youth housing, are in any case one way of transferring capital back from the state's hands to the legitimate owners of the money. I'm bringing up the proposals that the whole opposition is all about. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the great colleagues and not least the Minister of Finance for a very good Christmas and for the cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1355	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1358	The proposals made in the document have also been discussed in budgetary terms. The right has shown what we mean by proposing the IPS amount increased, and that the maximum annual savings amount and percentage of tax in the case of BSU should be raised. As far as this debate is concerned, I note the way in which the word ‘princes’ is used, that there is a fundamental resistance to stimulating certain forms of savings. We think that's a lot of the argument behind it, because it's clear that here we have two types of savings that stimulate long-term sustainability. It's not like you save on any of these to go on vacation in a year, and so on, these savings have a great value. They're also very accurate. It is clear that the BSU has been very updated through the Financial Supervisory Board's demands to the banks that there should be 10 pst. equity by way of housing purchase. It is a requirement that the Right considers reasonable, because it is clear that it is a strong contribution to stabilising the housing market that equity is actually required. But then you also have to adjust the arrangements, so that they become real in relation to the housing market that young people actually meet. It is clear that you will not get far by 150 000 kroner if there is a young family that is going to establish itself and is the first buyer in the housing market. As far as pensions are concerned, I agree with the previous speakers that the ideological distinction is going to be between whether to bet on the state wanting to take care of us through the arrangements that are there, or whether to also stimulate each one to take responsibility for his own age and the quality that you actually want to have on that age, when it comes. There's a marked distinction in how to deal with the question. Finally, I want to comment on business neutrality, because I think it's a markedly neutral approach to the whole issue in this context. We all know that business neutrality was actually something that was invented by Stoltenberg under the Stoltenberg I government, but it is often used in shell-words against the Right. Then you can’t avoid noticing that there will be an alternating use of nutrition neutrality, because here – in the case we are dealing with now – it is very good to come back to a slightly neutral argument. Then it is a little strange – in the end – that you do not respond to at least the part of the pension proposal that goes on symmetry in taxation. I don't think the majority or the finance minister has commented that part of the proposal is that it should be the same tax treatment of the amount you pay, as what you get out. That's the least you could ask for an acceptance from the government. I think maybe there's just a little lack of principles that opinion reacts to right now, and that gets the government to think about through Christmas. I would like to join the previous speaker and thank colleagues on the Financial Committee and also the Minister of Finance for the cooperation throughout the year and wish everyone a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1375	Some short notes also from SV's page. We're behind the setting. I just want to stress that we have actually strengthened the BSU system. But it's clear that there's also a dilemma about it, as we've also stressed, that it's like those who've been medicated, who use these kinds of schemes. In particular, with regard to private pension saving, we know — it has been analysed — that it is the most privileged sections of the population who use such a scheme. For example, in a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Finance pointed out that the previous scheme, namely the IPA scheme, was used by the most dissident, and when we closed it in 2006, it turned out that about 60 pst. of the tax consolidation the 20 pst. of the population with the highest gross income. So this also has a social side. The question we have to ask ourselves is, how much of the Community's resources should we give priority to subsidising those who are most privileged? It's a question that we should take seriously. So to Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who – as usual, I would say – took his mouth quite full from the pulpit and ate his message. He said that less and less are involved, and that we have made people interest-raters who depend on different social benefits – that's not how bad things are with us here in Norway. In the debate on the emerging age, more people pointed out the opposite, namely that we can be reasonably satisfied with the economic situation in this country, especially if we look around, but that we are in a situation that is nevertheless very serious because we depend on the countries around us. It's like, among other things, The representative Lundtägen was in on, an increasing government debt around, and ordinary people feel that they have to finance the value that the financial elite has spent for many years. I just want to stress that in Norway, in fact, the employment rate is one of the largest in the world. And I would also like to say to the representative Tybring-Gjede that some of the things that, among other things, contribute to the participation, participation and participation of so many people in the world of work, including: that we have pursued an active gender equality policy, which the Progress Party has always opposed. So the situation would have been quite different if it had been the representative Tybring-Gjedde who had his hand on the steering wheel. The same is true of the question of what kind of work we are going to have. If there's something we know, it's at least that a more brutal working life, where employees' rights are severely weakened, helps a lot of people end up in social benefits instead of being able to stand longer in work. And increased use of temporaryity, a strong increase in the use of competitive outsourcing, tenders and privatisation are also some of the things that make very many end up in social benefits. So there I might think that I would have subdued myself a couple of dots. Finally, I would also like to offer congratulations. I wish everyone in the committee a Merry Christmas and thank you for a very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1390	The case concerns a proposal from an overall opposition, both on the improvement of the private individual pension saving scheme and on housing saving for young people. We, who belong to the government parties, notice that there is no priority in the proposal, and it is, of course, the privilege of the opposition not to go so deep into it, so there we are in different situations. First some points of view on saving. I want to be very clear that with today's interest rate on deposits in banks, today's price rise and today's tax on interest income and bank wealth, it is very unfavourable to save. We must never forget that, that's what's at stake, and that's what all Norwegians are dealing with in their meeting with reality. At the same time, it is very tempting to borrow from those who have the ability to serve increasing debts. This is a problem. It should not be in a normal situation based on the views of the Centre Party. It's going to be worth saving, and it's going to cost to borrow. It's a basic attitude that we need to have within a mixed economy, to which we join. However, it is difficult, yes quite impossible to realise this principle under today's international economic situation. That's why it's even more important to have the will to correct this relationship somewhat. This should be just common sense. And here's the most important thing about youth behavior. Housing savings for young people are stimulated by tax relief. This is an important signal to young people who get a lot of talk in youth environments, much more than we might be aware of. That talk also leads to a discussion about social relations that, based on my knowledge of youth environments, is very positive. The centre party is a hot supporter of Housing Savings for Youth, and I would like to stress that tax relief in the form of BSU is a major change in the attitudes of many young people. NOK 150 000 is not a large amount in the housing market that the youth is facing today. So it's most important for the Center Party to stimulate savings among young people. Older people have many more opportunities to save, so there is little need for further incentives for those groups. Finally, I would like to thank you for the cooperation in the Financial Committee and for the cooperation with the Minister of Finance, and wish everyone a peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1403	A lot has been said, the Christmas holiday stands at the door, and we are dealing with the Stortingen's last case in the fall session. And I'm going to be brief. It'll be a little bit on the same track as the representative Gundersen. As in the previous case, the government parties and the finance minister argue in principle when they claim that tax preference affects the overall private savings to a very small extent, and that there is therefore no intention to extend the financial limit. Then the logical question is also here: why do the parties and the government not liquidate these arrangements, and why is the majority satisfied that the ceiling of the BSU was raised from DKK 100 000 to NOK 150 000 in the previous period, if this was a measure that was not, to quote them themselves, ‘especially effective’? It would have been much better to say what it is: this costs money in terms of somewhat reduced tax revenue. That's why we're against it. That is why we are not giving priority to this. In the last budgetary procedure, I and Left have been particularly concerned about two things, which I hope the Minister of Finance can take up in his post afterwards. First, why is it just 20 pst? deduction from savings under the BSU scheme, while it is 28 pst. deductions from most other schemes, such as: deduction of trade union quota, interest expenses, etc. What is the logic and the principle of this discrimination? In its alternative state budgets, the Left has proposed raising this limit to 28 pst. – also in our alternative government budget for 2011. I am very pleased with what Mr Lundteg said just now from this chair. I share many of his views. Secondly, because of the new pension tax system, private pension saving schemes have become much less advantageous, and many financial institutions have announced that they will liquidate their plans and offers as a result. This was a side effect of Storting's decision that at least I didn't have enough attention around. Of course, I just have to put that on my coat. Then I'm very uncertain about, and I don't know, how much focus the finance minister had on it, and to what extent he was aware of this. Then I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for working very well and thanking him very often for coming here to the Storting and answering all our questions and challenges. Thank you very much! Have a good and peaceful Christmas, everyone – including the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1418	Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1422	Participating in debates in Stortinget, meeting both former and new colleagues in Stortinget, is one of the things that makes the job interesting, as well as all the other things. I always appreciate both participating in the discussion and getting questions, although sometimes I may think that there are a lot of them, especially as it approaches 2,000. But that's also part of everyday life and reality, and that's how it should be. I want to link a few comments to saving. I think we can quickly agree that saving is important, including private savings. There's no disagreement about that particular question. We have a very long tradition and strong culture for saving in Norway. Even from my childhood I was taught how important it was to set aside a few dollars. I have also said from this pulpit in the past that it was a proud moment when I emptied my savings bag for the first time and got the few heads in the bankbook for the first time. So this tradition of saving is important. It's an important part of Norwegian culture. Although it has not been up to this case, this is also some of the background to the involvement of the government and, as I see it, the whole of the Stortinge stands behind: to address this with the EU authorities, related to the ongoing discussion on the Deposit Guarantee Directive, which is now on the steps of the EU. Although there has not been a vote on it in Stortinget so far, I perceive that I have full backing to make sure that we have a good deposit guarantee in Norway, and that there are many things that are moving towards Norway also having it in the future. So I want to say that it is important that our generation too can lead further good attitudes to saving those who come after us. And we're also saving in a lot of different ways. Most of the savings capital of the Norwegian people is housed. Housing savings in Norway are very high. Many save in banks, many save in shares. In the new pension reform, the ability of individuals to save through labour input will also increase, both through the basic insurance of the pension reform and the fact that all now have a compulsory occupational pension linked to labour input. We have an IPS scheme, and we have a housing savings scheme for young people. The government has no plans to abolish those arrangements. At the same time, I see that there will of course be a discussion about the amounts, the percentages and how good those arrangements should be. The government has chosen not to give priority to increases in these limits, compared with many other things that are important to the government budget. I think it is important, when we discuss saving, also to ask ourselves the question: does it have the effects we think it should have – how is the net impact of saving, how is the distribution effect of such schemes? So I think there's an important side to this that even though the limit of housing savings for young people is 150 000 kroner, there's no prohibition on saving more, getting a bigger balance, or saving more than the annual deduction, even if there's no tax favor on that. This is probably also a theme that we will come back to on different occasions in the storeroom. I look forward to it. It is probably not that long since we dealt with proposals linked to the scheme – in connection with the 2011 State budget. So even though I said it in the previous post, I can repeat it now: I thank you once again for the cooperation and want all the members of the committee, and Stortinget, Merry Christmas – I also add a good new year and that each of us is trying to contribute to it being as good as possible, where we have opportunities for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1440	I want to raise this to a more ideological level. Norway has a high level of savings on public hands, we are relatively modest in terms of private savings. So the state pension fund is 3500 billion. kr, and it can be doubled within some time in the future. The Minister of Finance has said in the past that it is wise to have a book ‘pægeng på bok’, and that is to the extent that most people agree. You'd think the more money on the book you have, the wiser it is. Does the Minister of Finance think that the bigger the State pension fund becomes, the better for Norway, the larger the State pension fund becomes, the brighter the future for Norway, and the larger the State pension fund becomes, the more sustainable will Norway's financial situation be?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1447	The answer to all three questions is essentially yes. So I'd like to start by saying that we're going to subtract a little bit for the public: we're not right at 3500 billion. kr still, but approx. Three hundred. But if you look at what the fund's purpose is also to serve, namely, the growing pension payments that we see in the future, it is also important to compare the future pension obligations of the representative Tybrung-Gedde and signed and everyone else in the future with the size of the fund. The future post-employment benefit obligations are well over 5000 billion. kr, so the Pension Fund has a very important role to play in securing the generation contract, which we have talked about on many occasions. As I believe, for the young generations to come, our ability to manage the Pension Fund in a good way will probably mean much more than increasing the limit of housing savings for young people with a few thousand copies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1452	I think we should agree that pension funds and saving will never replace the need to keep the population active at work, so anyway it's the best solution. And so I agree with parts of the Minister of Finance's contributions. I will also return the wish in a good new year. I think at least it was uplifting signals that saving is useful, as I think he said. This can give hope to do the same reverse operation that has now been done with the audit obligation in small companies. Looking at the requirements of the Financial Supervisory Authority, there is a great deal that suggests that the BSU should be further improved. A question of a minor clarification: In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State states: «The tax deduction is further higher for those with a higher income than for those with a lower income.» That's an average consideration. I would like to have confirmed that the scheme is the most favourable for those with low income – as long as it is above the minimum deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1466	If you look at the distribution effect, of course you can look at the deduction. But it is also important to look at the number of savings schemes. And then if you look at the distribution of income here, these schemes appear to be more favourable to those who have higher income. It is related to both the amount of a savings annually and the income base. That's about 70 pst. of those who saved more than NOK 15 000 per year, they had a gross income of more than NOK 400000. So it's an effect of both savings used and income that contributes to this distribution effect. It is important to have it with you in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1471	First I say Christmas, and then I start again – I'm sorry. But I'm very concerned that within the BSU, it's 20 pst. deduction from savings. Making young people save, I think is very, very important. Then we can compare with the deduction of trade union quotas, interest expenses, etc., as I mentioned in my article. Can we expect any changes here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1480	After all, the trade-union quota, interest and its like receive the percentage of deduction corresponding to the percentage rate of net income or general income. That one has set the percent to 20 at BSU, probably has a historical explanation. I wasn't in the room when that limit was set, but the answer to the question is that the government has no plans to increase 20 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1485	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 2026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1500	Then it seems that we are ready to go to voting on the matter no. 9-17 on today's map. The first eight things we've already argued about. It was the second time the law was handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1691	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2-4, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Progress, Right and Left proposals No. 5-10, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 11–15, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 16, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 16 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: CapePostDestinationCrones605Work and welfare kit45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred2 800000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1762	Since no one had a confession to come to the previous vote, there is now a vote on the proposals No. 11–15, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: CapePostDestinationCrones605Work and welfare kit45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred 200000000’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for prolongations or re-contracts with all institutions operated by non-profit actors who have had agreements with regional health companies and with Bufatat but who have lost their bids and who either continue to operate with reduced offers or are in the process of terminating their operations. It is assumed that the agreements will apply from 1 January 2011 until 1 July 2011.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: CapePostFormsCroner732Regional health enterprises70Specific measures, may be carried over, can be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75100000000 » Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: CapePostDestinationCrones855Statistical child protection management22Buying of private child protection services40000000’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: CapePostFormsCroner1825Introduction of energy use and energy production70Increases in household electricity saving can be carried over 100000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e1947	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: CapePostObjectivesCroner440Directorate of police and officers1Operating expenditure may be used under Chapter 2. 441, entry 1 may be transferred, increased by 180 000 000 from NOK 8 966 813 000 to NOK 9 146 813 000 ’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: KapPostFormålKroner571Room grants to municipalities69Strengthening of elderly care, the operation of institutional places, the eartag, can be transferred, increased by 1,000,000’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: CapePostFormsCroner586Contributions to nursing homes and nursing homes64Investment grants may be transferred, increased by 1 000 000 000 from NOK 633 725000 to NOK 1633 725000’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: KapPostFormålKroner1323Bompengeprojects70Delete toll companies' debts on road projects per year 31 December 2009, may be transferred, increased by 17 000 000 000’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case on the basis of which decisions on State debt assumption and/or debt reduction for toll-funded projects adopted by the Stortinge in 2010 are based and any new toll debt committed in 2010 for other toll-funded projects. The government is therefore asked to consider a solution in which the State intervenes as a debtor in the debts of toll companies per year. 31 December 2010, thereby taking over the fixed amortisation on behalf of road users.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: CapePostObjectivesCroner5800 State pension funds abroad50Transfer from the fund, reduced by 25 223 472 000from NOK 153 780 000 to NOK 126 556 528 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e2205	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that the investigation work as a whole was requested at the Innst. 294 S [[2009-2010]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the existing agreements of the State with non-profit institutions and other private measures are extended until the Storting has dealt with a matter relating to the framework conditions of these institutions.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: CapePostFormsCroner732Regional health enterprises70Special grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 7550000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e2268	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left are taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: CapePostObjectivesCrones621Assistances to social services and social inclusion70Assistances to voluntary work may be transferred, increased by 30 000 000 from NOK 48 648 000 to NOK 78 648 000’» Votering The proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left was not accepted by 52 votes to 45. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (Parliament adopted the resolution)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e2328	The Committee had set up: The State budget for 2010 is amended as follows: Expenses1605Costs for government financial management:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 4 900 000 from NOK 315 300000 to NOK 310 400 0001618Tax budget:21Special operating expenditure, increased by 15 700 000 from NOK 124 300000 to NOK 140 00022Larger IT projects, can be carried over, reduced by 51 100 000 from NOK 218 700 000 to NOK 167 600 0001632Compensation for VAT:61Contribution to municipalities and county councils, estimated allocation, increased by 800 000 000 from NOK 13 700 000 000 to NOK 14 500 000 000 0001645 State financial fund:70Appropriations for operations, reduced by SEK 7 500 000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 2 500 0001650State debt, interest, etc. :1Operating costs, increased by 5000000 from NOK 30 900 000 to NOK 35 900 00089Rents and commissions, etc. in resident government debt,expenditure grant,receivable from NOK 20 40 000 000 from NOK 20 214 500 0002309.Expenditure: operating expenditure,reduced by 10 711 755000 from NOK 10 881 755000 to NOK 170 0002315Revenue adjustment for workers in the government tariff area:1 Operating expenditure, increased by 120 693 000 from NOK 120 693 000 from NOK 120 693 000 to NOK 02800 State pension fund abroad:50Transfer to the fund, increased by 51 350 500 000 from NOK 220 389 000 to NOK 271 739 500 000Incomes4610Customs and fees:11Guidages on credit claims, increased by EUR 15 000 000 000 from NOK 240 000 to NOK 25 000 from EUR 255 000 from the foreign exchange charge, reduced by NOK 5 000 to NOK 46188 000Indebate rate:1$250 000 from NOK 250 000from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK [[HFC]] [[PFC]] II The majority agrees that the public funding needs for 2010 are met by state grants. III Authorisation in connection with the winding-up of the State Petroleum Insurance Fund The size agrees that the State Petroleum Insurance Fund will be wound up on 31 December 2010 and that the funds in the Fund will be transferred abroad from the same date to the State Pension Fund. The entry of funds into the State Petroleum Insurance Fund and the corresponding provisions for liabilities is shown in the country's capital accounts. The transferred funds are included in the listed capital of the State pension fund abroad in the capital account as at 31 December 2010. IV Pre-shot authorisation The majority agrees that, in 2010, the Ministry of Transport may conclude agreements for the prioritisation of funds for road purposes in addition to the allocated allocation. 1320 State Road Administration, Item 30 Rijksvesen, Item 31 Racism, Item 36 E16 above File Mountain and Item 37 E6 west of Alta, however, so that total current reimbursement obligations do not exceed 2 100 million. krones. The shootings shall be refunded without compensation for interest and price increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e3921	During the debate Ib Thomsen has made the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the inclusion of e-books in the VAT exemption applicable to literature.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e3929	The Committee had ceased. Document 8:7 [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e3946	In the course of the debate, two proposals were put forward, no. 1–2, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for an improved individual pension saving scheme with annual deductions from general income for annual payments of up to SEK 40000, while introducing a symmetric tax on the deductions for payments to, and payments from, the scheme.» [[included costs]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for improvements to the Youth Housing Saving Scheme [[BSU]] Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e3961	The Committee had set up: Document 8:8 S [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-17.ana.ud79e4011	Since we have now completed the last meeting in Stortinget before Christmas, and a number of representatives have already used the opportunity to wish each other a Merry Christmas, the President finds it right and pleasant on behalf of the Presidency to wish all the magnificence representatives a good, blessed, peaceful and well-deserved Christmas holiday and a good Christmas celebration. Then we meet for a good new year after New Year. Thanks for the good cooperation and good contributions in the session we have now left behind! Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
