ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e61	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e64	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Øyvind Korsberg, Ib Thomsen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to make a proposal on women's/mother's information obligation on granddaddy and criminal law changes in child law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e69	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e72	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I have the honour to propose a new welfare reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e93	Freedom of faith and freedom of expression are closely linked. They are fundamental parts of universal human rights. Freedom of faith is firmly enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, in the first paragraph of Article 18, which states: «Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the freedom to change religion or faith, and the freedom to express their religion or belief through teaching, practice, worship and rituals either alone or with others, and public or private.’ The abuses against this human network are more and more serious than we can imagine in our society. An international study concludes as follows: nearly 70 pst. of the world’s 6.8 billion people now live in countries with high restrictions on religious beliefs and practices. This study not only measures the restrictions on religious freedom because of government policies, laws and the actions of governmental bodies. It also measures restrictions and penalties imposed by social actors other than public authorities on individuals, organisations and social groups. This nuance between different types of violations of freedom of belief is important, not only to gain a comprehensive understanding of the situation, but also to the design of our strategy towards different countries in order to strengthen human rights. What is the status of freedom of belief around the world today? On the one hand, we have some countries, such as China and Vietnam, which are characterised by strict restrictions and controls on the part of the authorities. On the other hand, we have countries like Nigeria, where in some regions there are bitter hostilities between peoples, but where government restrictions are moderate. Increasing religious nationalism can also lead to killing and other abuses against religious minorities. We've seen this in some Asian countries, like India and Sri Lanka. Let me take an example: in the autumn of 2008, more than 50,000 Christians were driven on flight, 5,000 buildings owned by Christians were destroyed, and about 130 Christians were killed in one month in the Indian state of Orissa. If a country is ranked where the authorities are responsible for the most serious and serious violations of freedom of religion, it is probably the top of the worst list. There, any religious activity is seen as a rebellion against the socialist principles of the regime. Then follows countries such as Iran and Saudi Arabia, where there are, to a large extent, both abuses of authority and other social sanctions against freedom of belief to those who do not follow the Muslim guidelines of the majority. It is a cross of thought that some of these wretched countries in the United Nations, including in the UN Human Rights Council, are leading the way to limit the freedom of the 30 pst. of humanity that continues to benefit from great religious freedom. In November last, some organisations assembled a large torch in support of freedom of belief and the victims of the abuses against religious minorities. This is not least the freedom to change faith. Those affected by this are not least Christians, but there are other denominations and minorities as well. In some Muslim countries there is even the death penalty for leaving Islam for another belief. A keenly awake world opinion will probably save the lives of many of those who are being taken, but if instead they get prison sentences, torture or reprisals against their families, is also the serious violation of human rights. Even in countries that we regard as more moderate, like Egypt, the converts experience serious abuse. Your religious affiliation is written on your identity card, which you cannot be apart. If you are listed with Muslim affiliation and want to convert, you need to apply for a new identity card. You can be denied that. And it can have serious consequences for both you and your family. Here is no resemblance to the law: Do you want to switch from another faith to Islam, set things straight. On the other hand, if you want to convert from Islam to another belief, a dangerous situation arises. You have the freedom to become a Muslim, but not the freedom to leave Islam. It is therefore not freedom of belief – the right to change faith – for people with Muslim background. On the contrary, they run a great risk if they try. Such a right is a denial of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Freedom of faith is also under pressure in our neighbourhoods. I recently watched the Russian-speaking TV channel RT, which on 26 January this year reported that the Russian Duma is now considering a bill from the Ministry of Justice that limits the possibility of what they refer to as ‘secs’ to ignore. The proposal prohibits, inter alia: mission activity on what is called ‘the territory of other beliefs’ and recruitment where people will be more open to influence — as in hospitals and in the army. The proposal does not define what is considered to be a sect. Jehovah’s Witnesses are already banned in three regions of Russia, and they fear that this bill will involve even more persecution. But the Baptists also express great concern that new restrictions can now be adopted. The abuses against people who only want to make use of their self-evident human rights are many and serious. The victims are not given the support they need, and the fight for freedom of faith is not given high enough priority on the political agenda. That is why we need to strengthen Norway's human rights policy in this area. By the Christian People's Party, this has been a commitment over time. The last interpellation that my good predecessor as great representative and parliamentary leader Jon Lilletun had here in the Chamber was just about freedom of belief. During the debate on 8 February 2006, he put forward eight concrete proposals for a more active fight for freedom of belief. Now, four years later, when we take stock, we see that the follow-up from the Norwegian authorities could be much better. In this interpellation I therefore raise two general issues. The first concerns the practice and experience of the instruments we have today. What instruments have proved to be suitable for promoting freedom of belief, and to what extent has Norway, bilaterally and through international organisations, prioritised freedom of belief in recent years? The second issue concerns the road further. What measures does the Minister for Foreign Affairs now think should be implemented in order to strengthen the work of Norway and relevant international bodies on freedom of religion? Let me make this concrete in the form of six questions, which I would like the Foreign Minister to comment on in his answer. Firstly, can the Minister for Foreign Affairs refer to new instruments that Norway has been using since 2006 in the field of freedom of religion in vulnerable countries and assess the experience and results of these instruments? To date, the priority groups in Norwegian human rights policy are limited to human rights defenders, children, women, minorities and indigenous people. My other question is therefore whether the Government will now include those who are being persecuted for its faith, among those groups that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives a special priority to its human rights work. Thirdly, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs support the idea that Norway, like several other countries, appoints a human rights ambassador, who among his priorities is the protection of freedom of belief? Fourthly, can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about whether the support to organisations working specifically for those who are subjected to violations of freedom of faith has increased as the total increase in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs — what is the situation? Fifthly, I would like to ask whether the Government will follow up the proposal as, among other things, was made during that act of freedom of belief here outside the Grand Duchy last November, to establish a consultative council of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of freedom of religion. Sixthly, I would like to ask what concrete steps can be taken to ensure the right to change the rights of converts in vulnerable countries during the period of Norway as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. There's an engagement on behalf of the minorities that makes me travel this interpellation here today. It's a commitment to universal rights, which applies to all believing people, no matter what religion they belong to, which is the starting point for me to raise this matter here today. And it's an engagement on behalf of people that is far too much forgotten in the great attention that there is naturally on many international issues, including many human rights violations that occur in the most diverse countries. I am sure that these issues have the attention of the Norwegian Foreign Affairs administration, but we in the Christian People's Party are committed to raising that attention to priorities and instruments, so that Norway can make a difference – an expression from time to time the Minister of Foreign Affairs has used. I think Norway can make a difference for individuals and for groups of people suffering in the world, and that with relatively simple means, we can do more than we've done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e145	There were a lot of important questions. If I don't get everyone in this post, we'll get them taken during the debate. With its interpellation, the representative Højbräten gives us the opportunity to follow up an important debate such as: was raised by Jon Lilletun – and I remember it well – in 2006, a debate that focuses on our concern for the large number of people who are subjected to abuse and persecution because of their faith, and a general opportunity to assess the status of freedom of belief internationally. The debate in 2006 showed, as the representative Lilletun summed up at the time, that there is a strong united political Norway that will fight for fundamental human rights such as freedom of religion, freedom of belief and freedom of assembly. For freedom of belief is precisely that: a fundamental human right. We also need to take with us, as the representative, Mr Højbrätten, did, from freedom of belief to freedom of expression. The expression of faith is, of course, so much talk about an opinion. The government's efforts to strengthen freedom of religion and life are part of our combined effort for human rights, as our focus on freedom of expression and our work internationally to support those who are deprived of these rights, who are violated because they have a faith, and because they express themselves about it. Initially, I would like to reiterate some of what I stressed in the debate four years ago, namely that promoting respect for universal human rights is a priority and an integral part of foreign policy. It is a long-term and overall objective to ensure universal respect for universal human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without regard to ethnicity, gender, language, religion or other status. Only countries that respect fundamental human rights can contribute over time to the establishment of a stable international legal order. In this picture, freedom of religion belongs. The High-Level Representative in his interpellation status of freedom of religion internationally, the instruments that have proved suitable for promoting freedom of faith, the extent to which Norway bilaterally and through international organisations prioritises freedom of belief, and finally the measures that should be taken to strengthen the work of Norway and relevant international organisations on this human right. It is not easy to give a brief answer to the status of freedom of religion internationally. It's shown to be numbers that indicate that 70 pst. by the population of the earth cannot fully live with this important human right. The interpellant has shown examples of violations, often gross, against people who practice their faith. There are dramatic and unacceptable illustrations of how vulnerable people can be when they practice an obvious human right. Unfortunately, there are several examples, and as long as they exist, the status is far from satisfactory. On a general basis, I would like to point out another disturbing feature, namely that authoritarian boards tend to include the need to control people's thoughts and opinions. And because – as we have seen – there is a direct line from freedom of expression to freedom of religion, we see that such regimes are compromising religious beliefs because they regard them as politically threatening for the stability of the country, for the political order, for the control that the rulers will have. Such an authoritarian attitude, which will set limits on the political opinions of the inhabitants, also affects human practice of faith, not because belief is necessarily political regime-critical, but because faith appears as an alternative to the order that the rulings will kneel. We have seen examples of such narrowing on nearly all continents, where religious freedom is restricted, and where believers are persecuted because they practice their faith and express themselves freely. We are today witnessing increasing contradictions, not least rhetorical, between countries and peoples on the basis of religion. This creates a demanding atmosphere to promote freedom of religion and belief. In fact, regardless of the political theme under discussion, we face this challenge in our international commitment. The work against racism is an example of this. During the Durban II Conference on a UN Resolution against Racism, the government chose to engage actively to ensure that the focus was kept there on racism. There were continuous attempts by various actors to turn the debate over into contradictions between religions. Norway contributed to the construction of bridges in the negotiations, including: by creating alliances across traditional divisions. I believe that in this way we did a service both to freedom of religion and to the fight against racism. The very central issue was the protection of religions versus the protection of individuals, and by remaining in those negotiations, we were given the backing of a document that clearly states that the right of freedom of individuals, including freedom of religion and belief, is to be protected. The representative of the Højbrätten specifically mentions the killings of Christians in the Indian state of Orissa, and the situation of Christians in Sri Lanka. Our ambassador in New Dehli visited the state of Orissa last month, and her report was a little uplifting reading. Christians were repeatedly subjected to cruel abuse in 2008. The actions began as revenge after a Hindu clergyman had been murdered by what was first assumed to be Christian, which then turned out to be wrong. Those who stood behind the retaliation are considered to be part of the extreme Hindu movement, which sees India as one religion. This contrasts with attitudes in the majority of Hindus, who support a secular state. We also follow closely the human rights situation in Sri Lanka. So the representative mentions high-rise challenges in several Muslim countries. In Egypt, many Coptic Christians feel the counterwork of the state, and experience that criminal acts affecting them are being mildly punished. The Egyptian authorities have made it very difficult for their citizens to convert. Such cases have been well highlighted in the Norwegian press. In Iran, the law prohibits Muslims from converting, as is the case in Saudi Arabia, and converts can be punished with death. Other religious minorities also live under difficult conditions. The situation of the Bahaiene is well known in Norway and has previously been addressed in Stortingen’s Question Time. At the same time, let me remind you that the issue of freedom of faith also concerns us here at home. As I said in the debate in 2006 – and I think it is still equally important – we must not ignore the challenges we can have at home, and it is actually day-to-day that fellow people, fellow citizens, feel that their faith is being violated – here with us. It's quite different from those I've been in, but they illustrate that belief, identity and statements about religion are present in the Norwegian social debate with a completely different intensity than before. Norway will use available arenas to work for freedom of religion and to address violations against people because of faith. We have been active in the UN for a long time, we are dealing with a broad agenda, and we also place great emphasis on development issues. This broad commitment was among the reasons why Norway received most votes in last year’s elections to the UN Human Rights Council. The membership of the Council gives us a good opportunity to raise the breadth of the human rights challenges facing the international community today, including freedom of religion and belief. In particular, I would like to highlight the Council's important task of reviewing the human rights situation in all Member States, known as the Universal Periodic Review. It provides a unique opportunity to assess the human rights situation in all UN member countries. We are now preparing the review of Iran, where we will focus in particular on, among other things. freedom of religion and belief. Let me repeat: freedom of religion and life is closely linked to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation. We see that in many countries there are restrictions on the freedom of organisation to restrict religious practice. China and Vietnam are, as mentioned, speaking examples, where the authorities require all religious groups to be registered and approved. Bilaterally, Norway addresses a number of issues related to freedom of religion each year. In 2009, there were issues in Egypt, Iran and Indonesia. In several contexts, we have been associated with like-minded countries, and we are accustomed to joining most of the EU Joint Declarations on such issues. In addition to our work in the UN and the follow-up to individual cases, through the human rights dialogues with China, Vietnam and Indonesia, we seek to influence the judicial systems in a positive direction and show the importance of civil society organisations and networks. Dialogue on religious and religious issues has become an important part of Norway’s bilateral cooperation with several countries, and this work wants the Government to continue. Furthermore, we take into account the increased importance of religions in international relations, and we have, as the Great Britain has previously known, further developed work on the role of religions in foreign policy. A forum for religion and foreign policy has been set up with representatives from several communities at home, where meetings are held to discuss work in the field. Keywords are knowledge, respect and dialogue. The representative of the Højbrätten addresses a number of questions that I come into the debate beyond, but let me say something here about what we are doing in the Human Rights Council for the right to change faith. Freedom of religion and belief comes up in the Council during the main session in March. Norway will then take part in the resolution negotiations, paying particular attention to the fact that freedom of religion includes the right to change religion and the right not to have a religion. This is a position we have in front of us on previous occasions too. There are questions raised about whether we should appoint a separate human rights ambassador. Then I can confirm that we have done so. Last May, Anne Merchant was appointed ambassador for human rights in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Let me add that we have a significant foreign service team that has this field as its daily function – a 20-year-old employee here in Oslo as well as at the UN Delegations. It is also worth mentioning the extensive work of Norwegian and international non-governmental organisations: Church Peace Platform, Church Emergency Assistance, Islamic Council – to name a few. In support of the work on inter-religious dialogue, we used approx. Ten million. kr in 2006, SEK 15 million. kr in year. The total budget for support for human rights projects has increased in recent years, from 110 million. SEK in 2007 to SEK 140 million. kr in the current year. Then, at the end, I will praise Norwegian religious leaders who play important roles in peace and reconciliation work in various conflicts around the world: Trond Bakkevig, Gunnar Stålsett, former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and his dialogue work and a number of others. It also belongs to boasting of the interpellant himself and others of his colleagues who regularly recall the importance of freedom of faith and keep the focus on all those who are subjected to abuse and oppression of their faith. They need and deserve our solidarity and our commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e194	Let me thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and complementary and I would like to say a very welcome response to my interpellation. It is said that when the Stortinget discussed the situation of Christians in the then Soviet Union early in the 1970s on the initiative of the representative Bergfrid Fjose, some years later it was announced that the debate had been noticed and had a positive effect on those who were in captivity and experienced the concrete repression on the body. I don't think we're going to take an easy look at the significance of the Storting discussing this kind of question from time to time. It itself has an important function. But we have to do more than that, and I am pleased with the concrete measures that the Foreign Minister confirms are in progress. I am also pleased with the focus that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now explaining that Norway will have as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. This is a unique opportunity for Norway to play a credible, consistent and offensive role in human rights. I fully agree that there must be an overall perspective. And where relevant — and that is, as mentioned, in very many of the world’s countries — freedom of faith will have to be part of the overall perspective of Norway’s follow-up, as I noticed with interest that the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirmed it will be in relation to Iran. So to work here at home. I think that the government has come much further in terms of inter-religious dialogue and the building of competences in that area than we were at the beginning of the previous ageing period. The involvement of organisations, environments of competence in Norway and individuals is very good. I believe that, especially in the area of freedom of religion, we have environments in Norway – organisations such as the Norwegian Mission in East and Open Doors – which on a daily basis follow this picture in a network of such organisations around the world. I would recommend that such organisations include the Minister of Foreign Affairs in consultative functions, so that they can contribute, with their input of information, to the Norwegian Foreign Service being as up-to-date as possible from different sources. I also think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given an excellent boost to the link between the different aspects of human rights, and I would like to come back and comment on it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e205	There were several questions from the representative Høybräten in his supplementary posts. Let me reflect around a couple of them, and I thank you again for having the opportunity to spend time in the debate. I think it's an important field for us methodically that we haven't separated freedom of faith as an area outside the work of human rights. I think it is important that we give priority to the work on human rights. It was a topic for me in the foreign policy presentation last year. It is also central in St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009. We have to put freedom of belief in that picture. If we cut it out on the outside as a special field, I think it has a lot of negative effects. So we have to keep that focus that way. This leads, among other things, to: that human beings who are subjected to violations of fundamental human rights, such as being deprived of freedom of belief, have our full commitment. It is not that they need to qualify simply because it is a matter of faith. We have to be absolutely central. It was of the questions Hojbråten asked about this as a priority group. It's a priority group. I was in charge of supporting organisations. I don't think I'm going to go beyond that right now. But it's not like we in the U.D. have thought that we should have our own projects aimed only at organisations that work for the persecuted. We must listen to all those who have that theme on their agenda. Very well known, there are no organisations that have it as their only concern, but there are organisations with a wide range of information and who report it. The organisations mentioned above are most relevant. I want to be in detention when it comes to creating a consultative forum, a council, with a certain number of them, because there will always be some people who exclude. So I say to the Norwegian Mission in the East and open doors: the door is open to us! We're busy, through the contacts we have, being able to listen to the experiences they're doing. It's like today that there are partners for us with significant input: inter-church council, Islamic council, the Mosaic religious community, with which we have ongoing contact. And then I said that we have our own focus on religion in foreign policy. I think we can list many examples of bets that Norway is doing. As always, Norway does a lot compared to other countries, but we are small. That is why it is very important to be present in the fundamental debates in the big arenas – where we reach many, and where, by the way we work, we can get more countries, as in the central UN agencies. What worries me the most was what I said in my post, that people with faith are being affected by repressive regimes that want to control people's minds, hearts and thoughts. Then they're looking for regime critics and political oppositionals. We've known that for a long time, but in that category people with faith are counted, because they think differently than they do. It is a serious challenge in the work on human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e216	Freedom of religion and life is one of the fundamental human rights. Let me therefore give praise to the interpellant Højbråten for the important princely interpellation he is putting forward today. Fundamental human rights are universal and can never be culturally related, whether we are talking about freedom of expression, women's integrity and human dignity, or the right not to be discriminated against because of racial or ethnic affiliation. We cannot accept that culture and religion are used as a pretext for, in part, extreme suppression of journalists, authors or for keeping women down. Neither can we accept racism. All the declarations on fundamental human rights state that the right to freedom of religion and life is an important foundation. Religion and religious practice are part of the identity of individuals. The work to ensure freedom of religion will always be part of our overall effort for human rights. There are many examples of religious freedom under pressure in many parts of the world. In many countries, there are restrictions on freedom of organisation to restrict the exercise of religion by citizens. The right to exercise their faith depends on freedom of expression. At the same time, freedom of expression can be used to violate other people's religious practices. We see that Christians are being persecuted, and we see that in several countries the government requires the approval of religious groups. In many ways the Christian People's Party appears to be an ombudsman party for religious oppression, and they have previously raised questions both in Turkey, Azerbaijan and now in India. That's very good. Norway has strong legislation here, and it states that it is the one who deliberately or grossly negligently makes public a discriminatory or hateful expression, is punished by fines or imprisonment. Norway has a very strong legal protection for violations of religions and religious symbols. But in a global world, conflicts between religions and conflicts between different human rights can best – and perhaps just – be resolved through dialogue. Therefore, it is important to support interreligious ecumenical processes, while systematically supporting individuals and groups against oppression in the name of religion. Freedom of religion and life are closely linked to freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of organisation. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for human beings to exercise their religion and outlook on life. It's a right we have to help keep intact, and it must not be weakened. When general guarantees of legal certainty are not available in a country, religious minorities are particularly vulnerable to human rights violations. Members of such minorities are at risk of longterm prison sentences, and even worse: death sentences. This is the relationship we can't accept. This is why the Norwegian authorities have addressed violations of freedom of religion and life through international channels in which they work and through bilateral instruments. We must also be active and participate in multilateral forums. We cannot therefore leave UN bodies to countries that we do not want to compare with. If we don't use the UN, we have to do what we can to get influence in other ways. We need to cooperate with others at a multilateral level, because it is not possible to say that we cannot cooperate with specific countries. The work on religious freedom and human rights is too important for that. It is also important that we do not isolate the religious dimension in our approach to international conflicts and dialogue processes, because this freedom is linked to other freedoms. But having increased knowledge of how religion plays its part in our field of trade, foreign policy, has provided the basis for the actions I have mentioned here – such as the creation of a dedicated forum, increased research and increased contact with the various networks under which we build.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e244	It is a very important topic for the representative Dagfinn Højbråten to invite us to debate today. It was also reassuring to hear the Foreign Minister's statement that we should not take lightly the violation of human rights, and that we should continue to keep focussing on it, especially because in one of the world's calmest and northernmost countries, we take religious freedom for granted. But unfortunately, this is not the case in many countries in the world. I was actually going to start with a story about how life can be for someone who has to live in hiding with his religion, in fear of being killed or put in prison. But there were so many incredibly sad stories that I chose not to. I found the stories on the UN Watch's website, the Human Rights Watch, and more NGOs that help focus on this issue. If you base the information that the Open Doors organization has posted online, people are persecuted, imprisoned and killed because of their faith in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The UN Declaration of Human Rights Article 18 states – we have heard it before today, but it can be repeated: «Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the freedom to change religion or faith, and the freedom to express their religion or belief through teaching, practice, worship and rituals either alone or with others, and public or private.’ Despite the fact that most countries in the world have joined the UN Declaration of Human Rights, people are killed and tortured daily for their faith. It is therefore very important that Norway strongly and clearly distance itself from religious persecution. Then, as the representative Højbrätten mentions in his statement, it is also very important that Norway bilaterally tries to influence the authorities of different countries, although I understand that this can be difficult. But the UN has sanctions for those countries that violate human rights, but I'm not sure if those sanctions have ever been used. So maybe it can be a way to go and where Norway can be a driver in the UN Human Rights Council for people to have their faith in peace, the right not to tell about it and the right to exercise it openly. Some of the countries that engage in religious abuse are also receiving assistance from Norway. Therefore, it is important that Norway also assess sanctions and at least give a strong warning to those of our recipient countries who violate the principle of religious freedom. Out of the countries that are worst at persecuting people belonging to a minority in terms of life’s vision, these top lists are: North Korea, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Maldives and Afghanistan — to name a few. That being said, there is persecution because of faith in 128 countries. That means that 4.5 billion people in the world have limited religious freedom. We as countries cannot accept such restrictions, nor can we accept such obvious violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e268	There is no doubt that this interpellation is both important and topical. Unfortunately, we can read daily about events in which people have been violated, subjected to violence or even killed with the background of religious disunity. Sometimes there is real religious disagreement that lies behind, but an equally great challenge is that constellations of power push religion forward in their own war and in their own power abuses. This often triggers the strongest feelings. The UN Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Faith, Asma Jahangir, points out in his latest report that as long as discrimination and violence take place on the basis of or on the basis of religion and religion nationally or internationally, tensions and contradictions will continue to exist and be exploited by various religious, political and militant groups. Religious conviction is about faith and hope – the very force of life. Without the right to religious integrity, a human being is free. I want Norway, as a nation based on freedom of religion, to be in the lead in the fight for others to have the same right. Global freedom of belief and the right to change religion should therefore be on the agenda of the Council of State. The representative also pointed to the recent report on global restrictions on religion, which shows that 70 pst. of the world's population lives with a high or very high degree of restrictions on religious life. It is surprisingly difficult to put freedom of belief on the international agenda. A lot of people want to keep quiet about that debate. Therefore, this interpellation is important, and it is important that Norway will actively contribute to raising the debate as often as possible. Such an international debate will have an effect in itself – we have to believe that. Then I would also like to remind you in this matter – as the Council of State – that international engagement must always lead us to look at ourselves. The best basis for impact is to be able to show good results here at home. We must admit that we sometimes experience a challenging religious commitment, updated in these days. I would like to praise the Islamic Council and the Inter-Church Council, which have jointly made a statement that points out that everyone is free to choose his faith, to exercise his faith both privately and publicly, and to convert to another religion. There are wise wordings that everyone should take over. Faith and freedom of expression are linked, as many have said here now, and it is important to remember that my right to faith and freedom of expression are linked to your right to faith and freedom of expression. At the same time, my right activates my duty to respect the rights of others. I have the right to maintain my view, I have the right to believe that you are wrong, but I have the duty to respect that other people, nations and societies think differently and have to relate to it. Freedom of belief, freedom of expression and freedom of choice concern us all and challenge us all. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been given a position and unique opportunity to put the matter on the international agenda, and through this debate and our speeches, he is reminded and urged to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e291	The high tide is raising an important debate, and I think that the Foreign Minister is well-responsive that we are offensive in this area. For me, it was very big when the Norwegian Parliament elected a Muslim as president. I thought it was big, and it told me something about developments in Norway. But I'd like to challenge the Højbråt just at this. If Akhtar Chaudhry had been a member of the Christian People's Party, he would not have been able to become president, because he had not confessed to the Christian threat. And if the Christian People's Party had had 50 pst. by the voices – they are far from it now – had it become so that then no one from other religions could have faith – fundamentally undemocratic is the Christian People's Party at this point, you ask me. Then I have to say that with regard to the many good copies to which the Højbrått refers, he does not leave one, and that is the core — Israel's conduct in Palestine in the name of religion. Should he not ensure that there will be freedom of faith and religious freedom and freedom of expression in this area, too, and that there will be no fundamental oppression of the Palestinians? I mean that the representative Højbrätten has now received a good response from the government, and now I want a good answer from the Højbrätt on these two points.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e304	It is a very important debate that the representative, Højbrätten, has justly taken the initiative. For us who are part of the majority in Norway, the problem is probably a little away from our reality, from our everyday lives. The right to believe, to believe and to be part of the community – at your choice – we see it as a matter of course. Most countries in the world have signed the UN Declaration on Human Rights Article 18, which protects freedom of religion. Even though the framework is so situated there, many people experience a struggle to live openly with their faith. For some, it's a struggle for life and death. Thousands of believers are in prison, persecuted, discriminated against, or pressured in other ways because of their faith, their convictions. But the increase in religious persecution does not come in any vacuum. It comes as a result of something. When tensions between population groups and religious communities increase, there are often deep explanations. The level of tension in the world increased considerably after 11 September: the war in Afghanistan, the situation in Iraq, the still unresolved situation in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The rhetoric and the use of words were hardened by leading politicians. A black-and-white picture was drawn, and the concept of the axis of evil was launched. The climate for dialogue became difficult, and belief in power use increased. The heat has simply been turned up and the pressure increased. In a more tense world, religion will be used by various actors, and deep emotions will be put into action. Several developments also led to a stronger awareness of Islamic identity and solidarity before 11 September. This, in turn, has led to increased polarisation within Islam – on the one hand, so-called moderate Muslims, who value freedom, equality and human rights, and on the other hand, militant Islamists, extreme groupings that regard the UN Declaration of Human Rights as non-Islamic and that counter Western influence with terror and violence. The struggle of militant Islamism against Christianity and other religions is today's most explicit and frightening form of religious persecution, but nevertheless is at the forefront of many places around the world. The temperature around religion and religious feelings is also here at home. Last week's debate on the Muhammad drawings shows that. I am convinced that what we see from religious persecution in many countries, and the heated debates we have in several European countries, including our own, about religion and religious symbols, have several of the same reasons. I am, of course, in favour of freedom of expression, but all freedom should be used wisely. I am uncertain about the wisdom of Dagbladet when they chose to print the disrespectful Muhammad drawing. Because it's an extra contribution to raising the temperature at home, and we don't need it now. We need all actors to dampen it and see that no one is operating in a vacuum. It is fully illustrated that it is a former terrorist suspect who has been the Allies of Dagbladet. I think Norwegian youth deserves better than being exploited in such a game. As you can see, I believe that the situation we see around increased religious persecution and the more heated domestic European debate has some of the same underlying driving forces. I find it alarming that, in several European countries, it is now being called upon to decide by political decision which clothes there should be room for use in public spaces. I hope that kind of thinking doesn't get messy here at home. In Norway, we have a stable society with a well-functioning rule of law that protects the freedom of each religious person. In societies where we do not have it the way we do, the minority will often be the one affected when the general level of conflict increases. We see it with the Christians in the Palestinian territories, we have seen it for Christians in Iraq and Copts in Egypt. As the Højbrätt elevates, many have had to pay with their lives because of their faith. In the West, the level of conflict has caused more people to feel stigmatised — with the results it produces in increasing frustration. There are no simple solutions to reduce the overall level of conflict in the world, and I don't think it is possible to see increased religious persecution regardless of the general level of conflict. As I see it, increased religious persecution is an expression of the general picture. Both in Christianity, as I know well, and in Islam, there is a fundamental message of peace and reconciliation. But both also have the potential to be abused as a political tool for creating conflict. Our main task as national politicians is to dampen the domestic conflict, create room for dialogue and respect, and externally strengthen the work of peace and reconciliation and the work of inter-religious dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e327	The right to believe what you want is one of our most fundamental human rights laws, and it's not without reason that the American founding fathers in their Bill of Rights from 1789 struck religious freedom as a fundamental right in the very first line. Freedom of speech is closely linked to freedom of expression, which lays the very foundation for a free and democratic society. For my part, I know how important it is to myself. Then I also know how difficult it must be to be denied the right to believe in it. Being allowed to believe in exactly what I want is an important part of my own identity. If I'm deprived of some of my own identity, I'm deprived of a part of myself. In countries where a person experiences the persecution or fear, there must be an incredibly difficult impact. For the Christian People's Party and the Christian Democratic ideology, this is something of the key. For the whole human being, it's not the material -- a new cabin, a new boat, a new car, etc. – which necessarily makes one feel good, it is that one gets to fill all the needs, also the dimension that is just on the cultural, on the part, etc. That's why it's so unbelievably important to have that part too. That means that we must also be aware of it in our own country, we must be aware that everyone will be allowed to believe in exactly what they want. But when it comes to this human right, we've been given the right in the debate that maybe is much higher than one would believe. When more refers to that 70 pst. Of the world's population living in countries where there are strong limits to the exercise of faith and religion, I must admit that it really surprises me a little. When I banned myself from the interpellation debate and saw that 126 countries experienced fear or persecution, or the lack of being able to believe it, I saw that the importance of taking a debate like this is enormous. One case I've seen in the last few weeks, which has touched me a lot, is that a Christian shopkeeper in Pakistan, a 22-year-old Christian Pakistani – jam-old with me – has been sentenced to life imprisonment. The reason is that a competing shopkeeper said he should have desecrated the Qur'an by tearing out the sides of the Qur'an and burning them. The paper he burned is supposed to have our old business records, but in any case such a claim was enough to put him in prison. What happens to that man in Pakistan, I don't know, but one knows that this is just a simple case among many others. It has been noted that in Pakistan its neighboring country India was in the autumn of 2008 more than 50,000 Christians fled. 5,000 buildings owned by Christians were destroyed, and about 130 Christians were killed in one month. I myself was in Israel and in the West Bank a few weeks ago. I could have picked up the situation for Christians there and for other minorities on both sides, who find it hard to exercise faith. That means we have a job to do. I want to discuss an action with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, precisely in view of that particular man in Pakistan. What does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think about creating a post on the State budget that could be ear-marked legal or other help to people who have been sentenced to long sentences for alleged blasphemy or other religious crimes, e.g. the situation in Pakistan? I am pleased that my party leader has seen the search light on the freedom of trust through this interpellation. I am pleased with what has been said in the debate from several parties, and that this searchlight can help to lead us to work even more focused and effectively to strengthen respect for the freedom of faith. Too often, the international focus may be on making a difference, and it may help to change the behaviour of countries. And that's why we all in Norway must be occupied with freedom of trust in meeting representatives from countries where that right is threatened. We have to focus on it and raise the question with them. For all humans must be allowed to experience that they have the right to choose to believe in exactly what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e347	I want to put myself in the line of people who thank the interpellant for a very important debate. I believe that a very fundamental principle relating to human rights is that no human rights are more important than others. It is all the human rights that represent what human rights stand for. So when we have representatives in this debate who nominate Fidel Castro at a peace prize, it might be tempting to say that there are actually some human rights that are also violated in those regimes. But it is quite clear that my experience of both international debate and of being a UN observer last year is that the most threatened human rights internationally and those most difficult to talk about in the UN building are freedom of expression and freedom of belief. I noticed that our foreign minister made a vigorous effort to address it, but that it was easier to hold debates on it outside the UN building than it was inside the UN building. So freedom of faith and freedom of expression are really important values to lift forward, because they are among the more threatened human rights right now. Our duty is to reduce political confrontations, but nevertheless political divisions have been seen here during the debate. I think it is an important perspective that the Foreign Minister raises, that the totalitarian regimes in their basic driving force will also dispel belief in their spheres. What I think is perhaps the most daunting thing about international development, is that it is not only about totalitarian regimes, but also about the regimes that we think of as having some fundamental democratic reflections, starting to get these persecutions. One important aspect that we have not addressed here is that we are sometimes so secularized in our approach to any regime that religious practice is banned in the struggle of the secular state. I believe that many of the features we see in France today are so secular that they are almost threatening the right to freedom of belief. For faith is an important part of man. For me personally, faith is part of me. It's a part that you can't disconnect or do in private. It's also part of the public man. That's why it's important not to be so secularized that you refuse to exercise faith. There are debates that also have sparks in the Norwegian public debate. I would like to fight for the newspaper's right to print which drawings they want to print. I think perhaps the most striking thing about that debate is that when someone then turns out to be against, someone is going to take away their right to practise their profession. As an Oslo politician, I have experienced many dross demonstrations. They have been political, and they have been linked to political decisions in Oslo City Council. That a city council has the right to say that he should refuse people to practice his profession because you want to make a political statement, I think I'm actually worse. I think it's much more emphatic for the Norwegian community than what Dagbladet did. I think that the Progress Party Bureau in Oslo does, with its statement on taxi drivers, is much worse than what the newspaper did, because it's about limiting people's opinions. It is allowed to disagree with Dagbladet. Whether it's Turkish Battle Force Vedum or it's Muslim taxi driver, it's allowed to express itself and say, "I don't like this." But it's not allowed to say: I will refuse you to practice your profession because you express your opinions. I would like to make a request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If we are to have high-level visits from Russia, the developments we are seeing there may also be the subject of the list of issues to be addressed with the Russian authorities. Then it's important that we constantly stimulate a religious dialogue, which many have mentioned. For there is nothing that builds down prejudices, and expresses as much tolerance as religious communities that manage to have good dialogues together. And I hope we don't get a debate in Norway about how people should dress. To put it this way: Historically, it has given very poor ratings to politicians who are trying to decide what to wear. I want to fight the attitudes many of these suits show, but I want to fight for people's rights... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e375	I'm going to leave some of the kicks that came at the end here, lie and try to get back to what was the starting point of the interpellation, namely the state of freedom of belief in the world today. It's a very important fundamental freedom that's been brought up here today. I think the interpellation that has been taken up by the Christian People's Party and Dagfinn Højbrätten is important, to keep a constant focus on this having a value in itself. We ourselves have a history of religious freedom. Those who hang on the wall behind here, decided in 1814, after a bad case of Hans Nielsen Hauge and perhaps one of the worst murders of justice we have in our history. He sat without law and judgment for ten years for his religious practice. But we have a long and good tradition for it now. Unfortunately, this is not the case in all parts of the world, as we have heard here today. I guess the worst country is North Korea, who's on the staging list. It is estimated that approx. 200,000 people are interned in inhuman conditions today, of which about 200,000 are. 50,000-60,000 Christians. When we look at this worst-case list, we see that seven out of ten countries that top the list of religious persecution are countries that have Islam as their official religion. Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Iran clearly point negatively. As has been highlighted today, in many of these countries it is dangerous, risky and criminal to convert from Islam to another religion, for example. Christianity. The issue today is what Norway can do to promote freedom of religion internationally. It is, as many have said, enshrined in the 1966 UN Convention on Human Rights. That means that all UN countries have in principle committed themselves to freedom of religion. So we know that in practice it's often a completely different story. The problem is that the intrusions we're talking about today, so far, have been ignored by the United Nations system. It's a paradox, for example. The West Bank and Gaza have had a huge focus through the history of the United Nations on rights, where almost the slightest infringement has been reported – that is to a large extent good – while gross human rights violations, such as human rights violations. in Arab and Muslim countries, total negligentness. It's a little bit about the power constellations that govern the United Nations system, and it's probably based more on it than on what's actually the starting point of international law. That is why I think it is very positive to hear the Foreign Minister today saying that when Norway is now a member of the Human Rights Council, it gives us an opportunity to point to a wider range of countries and the type of rights attached to what is the focus of the United Nations system. Now there have also been questions about what sanctions the United Nations system could actually be in breach of human rights. You've actually done something before. In 1974 there was a great coalition against the apartheid system in South Africa. What happened at the 1974 General Assembly was that the accreditations to the delegation from South Africa were signed because the country's apartheid policy broke with the UN Pact. That's what you said then, and so the country was banned from the general meeting that year. So it's possible to do something. I hope that the Foreign Minister has a strong focus on it, and I think it is positive what has emerged here today. Norway also has extensive bilateral cooperation with many of the countries on the wrestling list. For example, Somalia, Pakistan and Afghanistan are all partners in aid work and are high on the list of religious persecution. Then there will be a question of whether we will do enough for these countries, where we will link aid and human rights. Are we making tough enough demands on these countries? Are we clear enough that this is unacceptable? And are the countries aware that violating these rights could have consequences for the cooperation and assistance provided by Norway to these countries? Behind all the numbers and statistics is human beings, people who live in daily fear, who risk persecution, imprisonment and perhaps death sentence for their faith. As a country with a long and good tradition of freedom of faith, it is our responsibility and our duty to work for others to enjoy the same freedom and security as we have here. No one can do anything, but Norway can do anything. That's why I think it's important that we have a moral courage to say from, to make clear demands, to point out abuse and not tacitly accept the wrong that doesn't affect ourselves. For many of the persecuted are help and focus from the outside perhaps their only hope for a better life. That is why a debate like this is important today. I think there have been positive signals from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway can play an active role here in the various international contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e392	Let me thank the Foreign Minister and your colleagues here in the Grand Chamber for a debate that is marked by a genuine commitment to human rights in general and for freedom of belief in particular. I feel that there is broad support for the initiative of the Christian People's Party that freedom of belief should not only be an integral part of our human rights exposure, but also a priority part of it, without which we have ranked the human rights, as Trine Skei Grande warned against. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will use the expertise that exists in the Norwegian community and in the networks that are involved in strengthening and developing the work of the EEAS in this respect in relation to important countries. I expect freedom of faith to be on the agenda in the bilateral and international contexts where it is relevant, and here it was also mentioned the forthcoming state visit where it will find its natural place, according to my expectations. Then the Foreign Minister himself insisted that we have to sweep for ourselves in Norway, and several have addressed national issues in this debate. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on Dagbladet, just saying that I think the biggest challenge we have in Norway is to put up with each other and live with the differences that have gradually increased in Norwegian society. Then the universal human rights are the most important and best starting point we have. The universal human rights are bound by the Christian People's Party, because they actually leap out of the Christian view of man, where all human beings are equally valuable anyway. That's why I have to say to it maybe not quite the elegant attempt from my rogaland bench at giving Christian People's Party advice in our strategic debate, that it is precisely the Christian People's Party's commitment on this universal basis, the Christian human vision, that makes us fight for all human rights. The representative of Langeland would like to know very well that we supported the election of Akhtar Chaudhry as Vice President of the Stortinget with great joy, and the representative would also like to know that any party has the right to restrain its integrity and identity. It also does the party SV, a party that should not otherwise strike the chest too much, because they decided at their national meeting to refuse state aid to Christian health schools, not particularly in line with human rights. I don't think it's right to pay tribute to regimes that actually persecute people with a different belief. Having said that, I would like to thank you for a good debate and for the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e403	I would also like to thank you for the debate, especially for the inter-pellant. First to a few questions that came up from the representative Ropstad, among others. the question of a fund to support people in difficult situations, legal situations, as a result of their faith. I think we'll think about it very carefully, for example. Because that will lead to the idea that we might then have a fund per. the category of human rights violations — and there are several. It is also true that if it became known that this Pakistani shopkeeper to whom the representative referred was financially supported by a country like Norway, as it is seen in some circles, it may exacerbate a case, not improve a case. But we're trying to capture this in what we've defined as a field of human rights work, that is, support for human rights champions. It's a broad concept, what it means to fight for their human rights, and could also get Norwegian support. So I think we're catching something up there. To the representative Skei Grande: Yes, when it comes to high-ranking visits from Russia, this is the theme we want to address. When I was in Russia -- it's not quite that high a visit -- a week ago, I just took up with my colleague for foreign affairs, Lavrov, that Norwegian representatives of the human rights community are denied entry into Russia. We find that unacceptable, we've taken it up and handed over concrete name lists on that occasion. Religious dialogue is important. I feel we have come a long way in this country since the 1990s. We know inter-church councils and Islamic councils. But it's e.g. a force now, I believe, that also representatives of the Muslim sections of the population feel that they can get Norwegian authorities to speak. I experienced it yesterday when two representatives of the Islamic Council came to my door on short notice to share some of their concerns about the situation in our country right now. So finally, with this sweeping for his own door: the representative of Åland finally said that it had come kicking against him as he would lie down, and then he went straight to North Korea. That's his right. But I believe that these debates are becoming fundamentally interesting when we also rumble around our own door and discuss some of the dilemmas we face here. I understand the representative Højbrätten, who says it may be premature, and not the time, to discuss internal discussions in some parties – I will not do so now. But I believe that there are relevant questions that also arise in our own discussion of faith, right to faith, and what it means to experience violations. So it's not just themes far away. So the situation of freedom of faith, basically in some contexts ideologically and practically, we must also be able to take that discussion in our country. Then it kind of gets more painful, but the more important, and it probably also emphasizes that there are universal questions we're talking about. So it's not possible just to lift this to a distance. With regard to the countries that Åmland referred to, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia, we address those questions there in those contexts, and you should know that this is now a very hot topic between our country and Pakistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e418	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e434	We live in a time of constant change. The age of globalisation, where countries and societies are becoming more closely integrated day by day, is fundamentally positive for Norway and for the world as a whole. One example is that no defence alliance can replace what the euro and the EU are doing with security within Europe. We achieve a lot of security policy through trade and people to cross-border cooperation. Countries that are integrated do not develop weapons. At the same time, we must not be naive. We cannot take a peaceful development for granted. How are we going to draw up a policy for the future? If we go back ten years, geography was basically the same, but the world looked quite different anyway. When Prime Minister Bondevik stood on this platform in front of the Washington Summit, which was to adopt the current strategic concept of the alliance in 1999, the world was different. It was exciting in Kosovo. NATO, the UN, the EU and the OSCE had undertaken extensive tasks in the Balkans. Mr Bondevik stated in the debate that: ‘There is currently no direct military threat to NATO countries. However, the alliance should retain the ability to build forces over time in the event of a threat. The Government attaches great importance to NATO's defence planning continuing to reflect that the alliance must be capable of deterring, and, if necessary, defending, allies against any form of aggression. This will continue to be based on the principle of collective solidarity, as well as effective integrated military cooperation, including joint activities and joint financing.’;» Many could say exactly the same today as Bondevik said in 1999. It's been 20 years since the Wall fell and 9 years since the terrorist attacks in the United States. In our day we see a world of new centers of power growing. China, India and Brazil are developing more and more, while Russia is brushing dust and revitalizing its power. The United States has gone from superpower to power. At the same time, the influence of the West over the rest is on Hell. These changes also change our security challenges. And why shouldn't they, when they change everything else? Today, weak states with organisations that are grounded in terror are creating the greatest threat to us and our NATO allies. This problem will undoubtedly be with us for many years to come. But in a world where the time of superpowers is over and replaced by five or six major powers, we cannot rule out that we will again face potential conflicts of strong states among them. Norway is a small country with a very open economy. Our security policy must be based on an international legal order through the UN Charter and international law, NATO membership and a military defence with a high degree of operational capability. Norway must therefore contribute to the management of common security in a multinational framework, with the UN as the overall framework and the basis for the use of military power. The UN and NATO are the cornerstones of Norwegian security policy. In fact, active membership of regional and global organisations is becoming more important and important in the light of the major changes in global power conditions that will mark this century. The membership of NATO has always been broadly anchored in Stortinget and in the Norwegian people. That's good. Today, when we're discussing what strategy NATO should base for the next few years, it's good to have this with us. On the International Portal, which is a blog where the foreign and defence fraction of the Workers' Party is trying to bring up a little debate, we have asked for input into what people think is important for Norway in the future NATO alliance. Of course, there are different approaches, but common to them is that NATO has to be a defence alliance where reciprocity is important. Some also point to our interests in the north as one of the things that makes it important for Norway how NATO develops further. I agree with that, because Article 5 of the Alliance is at the heart of NATO and makes the alliance relevant to all the Member States. Combined with decision-making systems which are there but which can improve, this constitutes the specificity of NATO. For Norway, which is a small country, it is of course good to think that an inner alliance can say no to participation. Nevertheless, an ever-no from different countries in a decision-making process will be devastating to the alliance. It is therefore important that the decision-making systems and work in NATO with consensus convergence across the organisation become more effective. The defence capabilities of the Alliance must be preserved and developed in the future. I believe that the Member States must take the defence challenges seriously. Collective security depends on several countries reforming their defences. The objective must be more mobile forces capable of operating outside the territory of their own country. Common exercises, such as: Cold Response, provides important common cross-border training. Norway has excellent areas of practice to offer for NATO exercises, and it is important that this continues. It also provides a good knowledge of Norwegian affairs in NATO. NATO's ability to do things together must not be underestimated. The military threat to Norway is small. Nevertheless, Norway has greater national security policy challenges than most other Western European countries. Over the next decade, the situation in the north will change dramatically. We already see it: the north-east pass opens, and the ice will close the north-west pass. New routes are coming and will connect Europe to the world's fastest growing continent, Asia, in a completely different way than before. At the same time, increased shipping will pose a wide range of new challenges. Already now we see that pollution in the Arctic is increasing. We see that interest in Svalbard is increasing. 70 pst. of Russian oil and gas resources located in the north. In the north there are also large energy and fishing resources. NATO must be visible in the north and know our neighbourhoods. In the alliance, we must have capacities both at sea, in the air and on land that can meet the challenges in the northern regions. It is positive if the alliance is able to achieve cooperation with Russia around the challenges in the north. Norway has taken an important neighbourhood initiative in the context of NATO’s new strategic concept. I support this. But at the same time, it is important to remember that there is not necessarily a conflict between collective defence at home and being able to operate outside, as we are now doing in Afghanistan. So a little bit summed up: what are the core points, as I see it? NATO has become 60 years old. It gives experience and maturity. But it's also important that the alliance is still vital and ability to renew itself. The core tasks of NATO relating to Article 5 and collective defence must be strengthened in the new strategy. Nevertheless, it is necessary, in the light of the changed world and geopolitical image, that the alliance maintains its ability to operate even outside its own territory in the future. It's been a long time since we've seen traditional war the way we saw it in World War I and II, where the goal was to occupy countries. Yet we cannot deny that this can happen in the future, and NATO must be prepared for it. NATO must also continue to change and contribute to the new challenges faced by the defence of the Member States. It is important that NATO's operational capability is focused in the alliance. Applicable strengths are characterised by their rapid availability for effort when needed. Usability is achieved through training, practice and collaboration, and through adequate logistical support and adaptability of materials. This work is important. NATO should remain open to new Member States and further develop relations with partner countries such as Russia. It is also quite natural that cooperation with the EU is good and that it is developing further. Nordic cooperation brings something very positive into the alliance, while bringing a lot of positive into the EU. Norway has a force here. Our close relationship with the other Nordic countries and the development of defence cooperation in the Nordic countries are something that we must continue to do, and which I believe has also been very well received from NATO, as the foremost example of a deepening partnership with countries close to NATO, but for various reasons has not chosen to apply for membership. The United States and Russia have taken new initiatives to reduce the number of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. For the time being, we have not seen the American positions on nuclear weapons in the NATO alliance, but on the Norwegian side, we should in any case work to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in the alliance's nuclear strategy and to actively contribute to the international disarmament and non-proliferation work in the continuation. I look forward to the debate we are going to have in the Chamber now. I look forward to what is the Council of State's assessment, and I also look forward to the other parties' assessments of the questions I've raised in the interpellation. It is important that the Storting is involved in the processes that are now taking place in the discussions about NATO's new strategic concept, and we have an opportunity to do that here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e486	The strategic concept is the alliance's top governance document, next to the Washington Treaty of 1949 itself. The concept gives political leadership to NATO's arrangements and priorities. As 11 years have elapsed since the adoption of the current concept, a new strategic concept was decided at the Strasbourg/Kehl Summit in 2009 to be completed by the next Lisbon Summit in November this year. NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen has appointed a team of experts to prepare a report by May this year. The group is led by former US Foreign Minister Madeleine K. Albright, and consists of experts from 11 other NATO countries. At the same time, the government has been concerned that NATO Member States are closely involved in the preparation of the concept. The main purpose of developing a new strategic concept is to ensure that the alliance remains relevant in addressing current and future security policy challenges. NATO must be able to take care of the interests of the Member States in the face of both new and more traditional challenges. The process of developing a new concept will be important, but it is also important that NATO cooperation is reformed so that a new strategy can be implemented. We are facing a complex security picture today. Developments in security policy include a number of new features. The role of the West in international policy has changed. China is growing steadily, Russia is recovering some of its lost strength, and new regional powers, such as India and Brazil, are becoming increasingly visible. However, this does not in itself mean that the likelihood of conflicts has increased. Norway’s geographical location and strategic resource interests mean that we face increasing challenges in our neighbourhoods. This dimension of our security policy situation separates us from many of our allies. First of all, these challenges are linked to the North and to marine industry – energy and fisheries. As a small country with an open economy, our security policy must be based on an international legal order through the UN Charter and international law, a binding collective defence through NATO and a relevant and effective military defence. The need for sustainable management of large natural resources and the neighbourhood of Russia underlines the need for multilateral cooperation. Norway must actively contribute to the multi-national safeguarding of common security. NATO and the UN are the cornerstones of Norwegian security policy. In addition, we seek to further develop close cooperation with the EU and with our Nordic neighbouring countries. That's why we are actively engaged internationally, both with civil and military capabilities to contribute to stability and development in other parts of the world. This is how we best take care of our own safety. The main message of the government in its work on a new strategic concept is that NATO must continue to be a defence alliance in the future and the primary organisation for the management of allies’ security challenges. The combination of political decision-making based on consensus, integrated military structures and allied capacities is unique. This is important to continue in order to maintain the relevance and credibility of the alliance over time and to ensure the necessary integration of the Member States. From the Norwegian side, we have therefore highlighted a clear reference to NATO’s core tasks in the new concept. The ability of the Alliance to provide collective defence within the meaning of Article 5 of the Charter of the Baltic Sea constitutes the very foundation upon which NATO is founded. This mutual obligation to rescue any Member State in the event of an armed attack, or the threat of an attack, must be firm and unambiguous. NATO represents a unique defence alliance between democratic states on both sides of the Atlantic. For the Government, it is a central priority to ensure the importance of NATO as a forum for dialogue between the United States and Europe. The United States will continue to be our main ally, and transatlantic cooperation is crucial. The alliance must continue to be able to carry out international operations outside the territories of the Member States. However, the partial one-sided focus on such operations since the 1990s has led to a need to discuss the relationship between the role of alliance at home and outside. At the same time, I would like to stress that NATO's main challenge today and in the coming years will be Afghanistan, as illustrated by military engagement. So the alliance has to be able to do both. It's nothing either-or. However, it is important that we do not assume that what is most acute is necessarily also always the most important. NATO's ongoing operations are examples of acute activities that are not necessarily crucial to the ability of the alliance to discharge its collective obligations. In line with these principles, the so-called Norwegian neighbourhood initiative will be followed up. This initiative was presented at the NATO Minister of Defence meeting in London in September 2008. The aim of the initiative is to strengthen the credibility of the Alliance as regards its ability to ensure the security of its Member States and to enhance the visibility and presence of NATO in its own territory and in its neighbourhoods, such as the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea or the North. From the Norwegian side, this has been recorded in the process of the new strategic concept. The initiative has also been used to remind us that the alliance has a role to play also in the north, i.e. in our neighbourhoods. More specifically, we have highlighted the importance of implementing flexible preparedness and reinforcement planning in NATO, increasing the understanding of the situation of the alliance in different regions, improving intelligence cooperation and the involvement of NATO in the Allied exercise and training activities in the neighbourhoods of the alliance. In the preparation of a new strategic concept, the defence policy challenges facing the alliance will be central. NATO needs capabilities that can cover the entire crisis spectrum, including high intensity operations. In addition, the alliance must have the capacity to meet new security challenges, such as, for example, defence against attacks on computer systems, known as Cyber Defence, and energy security. The requirements of on-going individual operations must not govern long-term defence planning. Capacities needed primarily for long-term stabilisation operations are not necessarily the same as those that provide security policy relevance in the vicinity of the alliance. In the new strategic concept, it is important to provide political leadership for both the level of ambition, capacity development and the need for reform. There is a great need for major changes in the processes of the alliance and in the integrated structures – such as the headquarters of NATO in Brussels and the military command structure. The Secretary-General shall conduct a process of transforming the headquarters of NATO. The alliance's command structure is not suitable for meeting today's challenges, and it's too resource-intensive. NATO's defence ministers will be discussing the need for reform as early as June, at their next meeting. The process of developing a new strategic concept is one that embraces both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and myself. In my presentation, I have focused mainly on Norwegian defence policy interests in this process, but of course there are other aspects that will also be important for Norway, such as the importance of arms control, NATO's relationship with Russia, NATO's cooperation with other international organisations and the alliance's relationship with partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e530	Thank you very much to the state council Faremo for a very good post. I just want to underline a couple of points. One thing is about what the Minister of Defence also has in mind: capacity within the alliance. As I said in my main post, I think it's important for both regular exercises, that capacities are modern, and that they complement each other internally in the NATO alliance. In that case, systems must also be able to ‘speak together’. I therefore think it is an advantage when several countries have indicated that they are moving on with the F-35, although, of course, it cannot be the only combat aircraft capacity that the Member States have. It also provides opportunities for cooperation, not least cooperation in maintenance, which, in turn, can provide greater operational capability and which, in turn, provides a closer integrated NATO. As Gro Harlem Brundtland said, "Everything is related to everything." And that could be one concrete example. Otherwise, I would just like to elaborate a little bit on what the Minister of Defense has to say about partnership, because cooperation with partners has evolved over the last two decades into one of NATO's most important issues. The fact that NATO is open to enlargement is still important, but that doesn't mean it's going to be free. New membership must be built on democracy and human rights and that members have something to offer the alliance by contributing to collective security. As I was in my post, NATO's relationship with Russia is very important to Norway. When the committee was visiting Reitan, we were told that there is a good personal relationship between Norwegian defence personnel and Russian defence personnel. This has evolved over time. Russia and Norway have common challenges in the north. I hope that once in the future we will see that we are practicing together, in view of crises and accidents that may occur in the Arctic. Four of the five countries bordering the Arctic are NATO countries. Russia is the fifth. We depend on close cooperation around the challenges we have in the north. The EU is also becoming an increasingly central security policy player and, in the light of what happened in Kosovo, has built up closer integrated security and defence policy cooperation both through the European Defence Agency and through the creation of intervention forces in 2007. It has now been further reinforced through the EU to 22 military and civil operations, with 13 ongoing at this moment. This will now also be reinforced by the Lisbon Treaty and the appointment of a foreign minister – a new step on the way. I think I'll come back to this with weapons of mass destruction a little later in the debate and see to it that it continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e547	For a short time, there was a seminar in Oslo on NATO's partnership, the third in the series of four seminars organised by this so-called Wise Men's Group that I mentioned. I think that in many ways was an interesting seminar. In addition to talking about their different partnerships, the need for NATO itself to review its value base in the light of the fact that there have been both many more members and that the partner countries are actually more than NATO's member countries, was clearly pointed out. Only by knowing yourself can you have good partnerships that can develop further. Therefore, the alliance’s relationship with partner countries is also a very important part of the further work on the new strategic concept. The alliance plays an important political role as a security community, primarily for the Member States, but also for the partners. NATO should continue to play this stabilising role. As I mentioned, NATO today has very many forms of partnership cooperation. There is now a strong emphasis on cooperation with those involved in the Alliance's operation in Afghanistan. In addition to this, there is a large network of partner countries with very different types of alliance. The revision and revitalisation of this cooperation will be important. In addition, the enlargement issue will be updated. The open door policy of NATO should be pursued, but it is necessary to avoid diluting the Article 5 Alliance obligation and the alliance solidarity. From the Norwegian side, relations with Russia will be important. The government wants NATO and Russia to re-establish constructive and meaningful cooperation based on reciprocity. It is important that the new strategic concept reflects our desire for such a strategic partnership. At the same time, it is clear that many allies who did not participate in the design of the current concept have a more strenuous relationship with Russia. This is likely to contribute to making work on the new concept in this area very demanding. In several areas, a closer and better relationship between the United States and Russia is the relationship between NATO and Russia on the road to improvement after a difficult period. The NATO-Russia seminar on nuclear medicine held in Oslo last November was also a step in the right direction. However, it will be important for NATO countries to have a common view on how this relationship should be managed. Norway has an ambition to play an active role in improving alliance relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e560	I would like to thank the interpellant for this initiative. It is important that the Storting should also be given the opportunity to take part in the debate on NATO's new strategic concept. When the current strategy was developed in 1999, the security policy dimension had changed. It was ten years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. The Warsaw Pact was gone. The countries behind the Iron Curtain were on their way into the EU and NATO. In the strategic concept, this was expressed by a finding that a major conventional attack is highly inconceivable. Security policy threats were defined to stem from social and political unrest, ethnic and religious rivalry in neighbouring regions, from the risk of nuclear proliferation and other sophisticated weapons and, as expressed, from international crime and terrorism. Two years later, it was precisely this that triggered the most lengthy operation in the history of the alliance, the operation in Afghanistan, anchored in the UN. These perspectives of security policy challenges are even clearer today. We are in partnership with the non-member countries of Eastern Europe. This is an important dimension because NATO must ensure peace for its Member States not only by military means but also by political means. Until the new threats from international terrorism in the 1990s, based on the Al Qaida network, the military forces were deterrent and not for use. Today, military power must be part of the operation to build an Afghanistan that will not once again be the base of international terrorism. We cannot rule out that military efforts may again be needed elsewhere. As the Minister of Defence stressed, the Government has placed great emphasis on the starting point and the core task of the alliance in its work on the new strategic concept, namely ensuring the security and territorial integrity of its members. It's an important reminder. Just at a time when the old and close threats are most unlikely, we must not forget this central foundation. This does not mean that NATO should avoid a role in security threats from elsewhere, as underlined by the Council of State. We still have to have such a role, on behalf of the United Nations, as we do in Afghanistan. The emphasis on the core task is to maintain the credibility of Article 5. It is about maintaining NATO's strong position in the Member States, which is justified by the ability of the Alliance to ensure the security of its Member States through collective commitments. In addition to this, I believe that Norway should be a strong voice in the work on the new strategy to strengthen the alliance’s work on disarmament, especially in the field of nuclear weapons. It is expressed in the 1999 strategy. President Obama's vision of a world without nuclear weapons must be a good basis for going further in the new strategy. One such important step should be for NATO to refrain from the first use of nuclear weapons. NATO is open to new members, and several countries in the east are facing membership. It is important that the desire for NATO membership becomes a driving force for countries to develop the common value base on which the alliance is based, namely a fundamental democracy, a legal society and respect for human rights. This must be part of the entrance ticket and a prerequisite for membership. The further enlargement poses a challenge to which enlargement needs to be addressed eastwards. We know that our large neighbouring and partner country in the East, Russia, is still hanging on to a sphere of interest. In such thinking, the security needs of other countries can be interpreted as a potential threat. Of course, this cannot give a country the right to veto its neighbour's free choice. But there should be a factor that cannot be completely ignored in the process of new enlargements if these are to serve our common objective, namely greater security for all members of the alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e590	Let me begin by thanking three representatives of the Workers' Party, Laila Gustavsen, Svein Roald Hansen and State Council Faremo – Laila Gustavsen in particular for the initiative she has taken, all three because they well underline the Workers' Party's clear goal of further developing NATO and providing for a consensus, a great deal of consensus around Norwegian alliance and security policy. I am pleased that this is a goal that the Workers' Party attaches so much importance to, regardless of what the government partners might think. NATO was established more than 60 years ago in Washington, D.C., on April 4, 1949, and Norway was present from the very beginning. That was a total of twelve countries that time. Since then, 16 new ones have arrived. In addition, NATO is working closely with other countries in our neighbourhood, perhaps especially with Russia and Ukraine. So NATO, with its close partners, is today dealing with countries with over 1 billion inhabitants. NATO was established to form a defence against aggression and expansion from Communist Eastern Europe. And NATO worked as intended. NATO secured security, peace and freedom in Western Europe in the 40 years that went by within the Communist regimes went to their root. This is history. Socialism and communism are forever placed on the scrapper of history, and the US-led alliance did its job. Now it's the other challenges we're facing. From being a defence alliance for Western Europe and North America, NATO is today able to defend freedom, human rights and democracy worldwide. NATO is working in cooperation with the UN on peacekeeping, democratic development and the defence of the rights of individuals worldwide. So this means a whole new role for the organisation. That's why it's quite natural and definitely time to review NATO's strategic concept. The representative Gustavsen himself mentioned the northern areas as a challenge. The Councils of State referred to the new nations which are joining forces. We can also add extreme religious movements that defile themselves with private armies, wanting control of states and territories – not to develop prosperity and freedom for the people living there, but to establish areas that can be used as a starting point and as bases for international terrorism. But some universal values remain unchanged for our cooperation with the NATO countries. The democratic flows that began to shape the world at the end of the 1700s led to Norway's epoch-making constitution in 1814. Here it is stated that it should be personal freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, freedom of organization, property and economic freedom. This idea has been winning the world over for 200 years. They have developed good economy, living standards and good lives for the inhabitants. It's just to defend these rights that we have NATO, and that's why we're also going to have NATO in the future. The Cold War is over, but still there are forces in the world that will rule others. In the United Nations, the number of countries with democracy is rising, but the majority of the United Nations countries are still dictatorships. As a consequence, NATO must have a military defence force. How large the defense budgets are, what kind of weapons and how many frigates, fighter planes, helicopters and army departments we're going to have, we're going to agree. The Progress Party has repeatedly called for the strengthening of its defence. I would also like to say that we need to strengthen the defence budget. But the most important thing is that there is an agreement and a willingness to make the Norwegian defence able to fill the role that is naturally assigned to us in the cooperation in NATO. In these words, these were some considerations about the expectations of NATO's new strategic concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e605	First, I would like to thank the interpellant, Laila Gustavsen, for taking up this interpellation so that the Stortinget can discuss a matter that is very important. NATO’s new strategic concept will be finalised during the year. I think that the interesting question that needs to be asked, and which I feel has not been answered – at least not clearly enough today – is whether a possible new concept, when adopted, will have some consequences for Norwegian defence, for Norwegian sovereignty exercise, for priorities at home. Will this give an opening to change in the future in relation to what has been? There has been an ongoing situation with 60 years of stability, peace and freedom through and through NATO – in what has been the history of the previous concept and the time period we are in today. My answer to the question of whether a new strategic concept will have an impact on Norway’s role is yes. Because we would like to discuss the challenges that NATO is facing, and as a starting point, that the North must be given priority. The Council of State was in its contribution to NATO's neighbourhood principle, to which I fully agree, namely to contribute to strengthening the alliance's situational and intelligence cooperation, and to increasing allied training and training activities in NATO's neighbourhoods. She pointed out herself that the northern regions are important at a time when we see that our neighbor in the east has gradually gotten bigger economic muscles, which also makes the Russian defence more visible and clear. Therefore, in the future, it will be more demanding for the Norwegian defence to think about what we ourselves can contribute to in a situation where NATO's own economic situation is extremely difficult. One has undertaken tasks in the world that are demanding, very demanding, cf. Peter N. Myhre's contributions here earlier on what new challenges NATO faces. This means that our duty to contribute ourselves, to make sure that what we want of stability and challenges in our own neighbourhood, is going to be more demanding in the years we face. Of course, we also have to take financial account of that. In its response, the Council of State is quite right in what kind of impact the activities and policies of the neighbourhood and the north must have. And the world's attention to what's our neighbourhood, that is, the North, is definitely going to get bigger in the years to come, cf. The world's enormous, increasing demand for energy. These areas — these gigantic sea and land areas — will receive more attention. That is why almost every country around us, including the EU, Canada and Russia, has adopted its own Northern Region Strategy. Well, in its military doctrine, Russia has defined NATO as a threat when discussing NATO's eastward expansion – I don't know if I can entirely join the inter-pellant's posts right in that area, that we have to be very open to this. I think we should discuss this very fundamentally – to what extent we should be open to extended membership. We have a world of great change. Yesterday's enemy doesn't have to be today's enemy. The enemy of the day is barely visible. Terror has come to be, whether we will or not. The economic demands for meeting terror are perhaps the biggest challenge for NATO in the future, which – I repeat – has today taken on very large commitments, which have made NATO economically really have some challenges in the future. We are going to call on Article 5 of NATO, which is the ability of the Alliance to defend the Member States. But this also gives us some major challenges: we have to do more at home ourselves, while terror is going to get more attention in NATO's future strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e618	The representative, Gustavsen, brings an important topic for debate. More than 10 years have passed since the adoption of the current NATO strategic concept — years of major change, both in terms of the security picture and in terms of the alliance. And, of course, although there is no doubt that the SV's primary NATO position is known, it is important to have a good process and debate towards the adoption of NATO's long-term device – a strategy that will, quite rightly, have a major impact on Norwegian security and defence policy in the future. In this article, I would like to highlight two areas that I see as important to focus on in the debate ahead: NATO's core tasks versus outreach operations and NATO's future nuclear policy. NATO is, and shall be, a defence salliance and not an attacking power. And it is important and right for the Minister of Defence to focus on working for NATO's new strategic concept to focus more on threats in the neighbourhoods. In traditional NATO, with the defence of the Member States as the primary, Article 5 of the Atlantic Pact is at the root of this. At the same time, it is important to take on board the fact that the biggest threat picture today is non-governmental, such as data security, pandemics, weapons of mass destruction and, in particular, climate change. These are threats that cannot be solved by military means. The next and last of expert conferences on the new concept will focus on the role of nuclear weapons. And here Norway must have an offensive and clear position. Soria Moria II says that we are going to initiate a discussion in NATO about how the alliance can help to achieve the goal of a world without nuclear weapons through commitments that cover all countries. Nuclear weapons are now a central part of the alliance's strategy. As the 1999 strategy states, nuclear weapons are the top guarantee for allies' security. It is therefore natural for Norway to take the opportunity to raise the issue of the role of nuclear weapons in the development of a new strategy. The first use of nuclear weapons is still the current NATO strategy. That means that NATO can in principle start a nuclear war using nuclear weapons against an enemy that has not even used nuclear weapons against NATO. As an absolute minimum, the role of nuclear weapons must now be limited from the first use to one — deterring others from using their own. But of course, this can also be problematic. Sverre Lodgaard wrote in the newspaper last week: ‘The question is what to deter nuclear weapons and what weapons are needed for their purpose. NATO is conventionally superior. [[...]] And it's been many years since the EU and Russia started talking about each other as strategic partners. Still, they're threatening to be the first to use nuclear weapons against each other. There's no reasonable relationship here. The nuclear map is in excruciating terms with the political one.’ It's hard to understand that nuclear weapons contribute to our security. On the contrary, it increases the risk of a dangerous upgrading spiral by making other countries feel that they also need nuclear weapons to ensure their safety. SV therefore believes that NATO should completely eliminate the use of nuclear weapons from its political toolbox, as has been done in paragraph 57 of the concept in terms of chemical and biological weapons. This would help to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in international policy. I would also like to mention that in May 2010, we are in front of the five-year Supervisory Conference for the Non-Proliferation Agreement, a conference with great tension, and where disarmament efforts become a central theme. Action by NATO can play a crucial role in helping to relaunch disarmament. I would also like to remind you of the wording of Soria Moria II: ‘We will mobilise to reduce the role of nuclear weapons by working for a successful monitoring conference in 2010. If this fails, we will consider a separate Convention against Nuclear Weapons.’ Then, of course, you can discuss what is ‘successful’ at the supervisory conference. Norway should therefore – in the light of the SV – require NATO to: goes away from the first use of nuclear weapons, agrees that nuclear weapons should not be used against countries that do not have such weapons end nuclear sharing and withdraw the rest of the American nuclear weapons from Europe History shows that it's useful. SV promoted a class weapon convention in 2001, which became a reality a little over a year ago. Nuclear weapons are the most destructive weapons in existence. It's impossible to imagine a situation that would justify the use of nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, there are enough nuclear weapons to destroy the entire civilization on Earth several dozen times. SV believes that Norway has to take a leading role internationally and work for concrete commitments for disarmament. Here's NATO's strategic concept a golden occasion. We should be offensive. The aim must be an international ban on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e665	NATO's core task must and must be the collective defence of the alliance's member country. Article 5 operations are the backbone of NATO and shall be governed by Article 51 of the United Nations Charter and the right to individual or collective self-defence. For the Central Party, this means that the main objective of NATO is to maintain the freedom and security of the population in NATO's own territory. Norway’s main safety policy challenges over time lie not in Afghanistan but in the north. The rumors that the territorial defence is no longer relevant are, in my view, considerably exaggerated. The issue of sovereignty still involves the presence and, once again, requires a volume. A modern defence consists of relevant technology at sea, air and land, but also heads. As expressed by the Army General Inspector-General a few days ago: ‘Platforms cannot provide people with security. When the war, the crisis, or the uncertainty comes, the need for the soldier comes. A battle can be fought between platforms at sea or in the air, but peace is won almost without exception between people on the land.» Opedal's posts are, of course, also part of a resource struggle about and in the Norwegian defence. I am aware of that, and I therefore stress that of course I am fully behind the long-term plan and the government's budgetary policy. But in a strategic and long-term perspective, Norway and NATO should listen to the Inspector-General. Both nationally and within the alliance, ambitions and resources must be related. For Norway, it is realistic to find the right balance between what we have and how many places we can be. To put it another way, the ambition for greater presence in the neighbourhoods may have the consequence that something needs to be prioritised within always tight budgets. In peacetime, in democracies, defence appropriations will never be much greater than the legitimacy of defence in the population. In the analysis in our strategic concept ‘Performance’, it is written: ‘Geopolitical developments indicate that intergovernmental conflicts and classical real policies may once again become more effective. This calls for a more balanced approach in the focus on international terrorism versus intra-State conflicts or intergovernmental conflicts than has recently been the case.’ There is a risk of increased major activisations in relation to regional conflicts. Power is in the process of moving. The United States is no longer so undisputed on its own on the powerhouse. China is now engaged in large parts of the world. Russia knows we have gained new confidence. India also shows new muscles. During the Copenhagen climate summit, we saw that the EU was set up in the process, while real major acts were trying to solve the herds. In a world where the power of the West may appear to be weakening, it is in Norway's interest that NATO's strategic concept and its interpretation emphasise that the only legitimate entity for engagement outside NATO's own territory is the United Nations. In the long term, the UN must be preferred to be a natural haven in such situations, for in a new world of multiple major powers it becomes more important than ever to have common driving rules. If NATO is perceived to have exclusive driving rules — which other countries, alliances, should the same rights be allowed in the long term? The "in area, out of business" metaphor may not appear as accurate in the future. Because Russia also has an interest in a low voltage level in the northern regions, there is initially the activity related to potential new trajectories, the exploitation of natural resources and climate change that leads to a renewed focus on security policy. It is important that we in Norway, working on a new strategic concept, have been so clear on the importance of the neighbourhoods of the alliance. It can also create acceptance and understanding in the future that small nations in the general population need to make defence policy priorities that target national tasks. It is therefore a great advantage for Norway that several nations have competences related to activities in the northern regions on the day that part of the world may appear to be even more important than today. Norway must act in such a way that we are relevant, knowledge-rich and strong partners for allies in the north. This requires considerable effort on land, as the government has started and signaled that one will follow up further, and it requires us to reach our goals of deepening Norwegian presence both militarily and civilly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e689	I guess you could say for sure that the government constellation we have now helps to make it a little less temperature around this type of debate than we might have had if the government constellation had been a little bit different. Let me give tribute to Laila Gustavsen for addressing an important theme, a theme that, in my opinion, is being debated too little in public space, but which this interpellation contributes to lifting. There has also been some criticism of the work now being done in the various countries and NATO combined, in relation to a new strategic concept, that there will be too many expert committees and too little popular involvement around it. As Battle Force Vedum said, at last we are totally dependent on NATO having the legitimacy it has now had in the population, if we are to continue to succeed to the extent that NATO has so far done. Now measurements show that support for Norwegian NATO membership is very strong, and I have no reason to believe that, for example. SV's vision is ahead of some rapid breakthrough. It's been a long time since NATO's strategic concept could be summed up in that it was to keep the United States inside, Germany down and the Soviet out, which NATO's first secretary-general had as his thesis once. There are far more complex issues to be debated in relation to a new strategic concept, and as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, there is also something that is being debated between parliamentarians. I think I have the right to say that with the scope of the new Member States, there is no doubt that what a new strategic concept should be about is much more debated, and there are far more divisive views about this now than when NATO was a more Western European club with the United States and Canada as well. Let me, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, nevertheless point out that the security guarantee provided by NATO through Article 5 is fundamental, and we must hold on to it. Norwegian policy must be oriented towards this in the future as well, and I expect that it is of course part of the work related to the new strategic concept. So the question is how Article 5 is managed in relation to different interests between Member States, and then I want to challenge the Council of States. She had a speech in Oslo Military Society a short time ago, where at least there may seem to be a desire for a return to a more regional territorial NATO. It can be seen that operations as far away as Afghanistan should play a smaller role in the future and that more attention should be paid to the neighbourhoods. In this way, it can be said that there is a little conservative approach to it that must be called the new threats of globalisation. The question, however, is how others will react if we downplay what other countries think is important. It can come back to us in second round, that what we think is right and important, does not get the same attention from our partners. Now I also heard that the Council of State said that this was not a contradiction of interest, but then there is a question that still remains for me: what concrete new approach does the Minister of Defence propose in Oslo Military Society? In the Storting's spontaneous question hour, the Foreign Minister would not, for his part, say that our commitment, for example. in Afghanistan would be somewhat different even with such a new approach as the Minister of Defence suggested in his speech. It would have been exciting to hear something about the setting we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e704	Let me first commend the interpellant, for this is a very important topic, and I will join the Syversen's emphasis on the need for debate on NATO's strategic concept, also in public space. I am also in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and we have actually been doing this since the Bucuresti meeting. The Parliamentary Assembly also joins the Madeleine Albright Group, so that there is very close contact between the parliamentarians and the main organisation on this matter. It is important to develop a new strategic concept. As some have stressed, the previous concept, adopted in Washington in 1999, has also expired because the security policy framework conditions can be described as out of date in the last decade. Since 1999, we have had the terrorist attack in 2001, with its consequences, and NATO has expanded with most of the former Eastern European countries. The most striking and perhaps impressive thing about NATO after the fall of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact is NATO's unique ability to adapt to the new security environment. In addition to the EU, NATO has played a key role in stabilising and democratising the new countries of Europe and the Balkans. It says a lot about the alliance that both Serbia and Bosnia today have Partnership for Peace Status, and that Albania is a NATO member. It's only been eleven years since NATO bombed Serbia. Today, the democratic future of the Balkans lies within Euro-Atlantic cooperation, not least thanks to NATO. Norway's embassy in Belgrade also had a few years as a NATO embassy and contributed greatly to the stabilisation and reorganization of the armed forces in Serbia. Since the previous strategic concept, NATO is among other things. have been involved in stabilisation in Afghanistan, following the acquisition of ISAF by the United Nations in August 2003. ISAF had been operating side by side with the American-led Operation Enduring Freedom since December 2001. But as important as the back cover of a new strategic concept is the new broad approach to security. Defence policy must now go hand in hand with dialogue, with conflict prevention, with democratisation, with development and climate action — the new concept of security policy, or to say it in English, ‘comprehensive approach’ to security. Perhaps even more important is the role of nuclear weapons in NATO. In May of this year there is a new supervisory conference for the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Five years ago, the Conference of Supervisors ended in failure. It is now absolutely essential to move on with both nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Let me add: NATO must not stand up in the situation that the alliance's nuclear policy becomes an obstacle to President Obama's attempts to negotiate with his Russian counterpart. For Norway, it must also be important that NATO remains a forum for the security policy dialogue between Europe and the United States. As a non-EU country, we are dependent on the transatlantic debate on the security challenges of allies taking place within the framework of NATO and not bilaterally between Brussels and Washington. At the same time, as the Minister for Defence also stressed, a new strategic concept must state that NATO is a defence policy alliance. The contrasts which today are quite prominent, between new and old countries, must be taken into account. It is not easy, but it is also important to focus on the defence policy challenges facing the alliance. This applies, inter alia, to: the need for a fundamental reform of the integrated structures, inter alia: The command structure of NATO. The decisions of the 2002 Prague Summit, namely the Prague Capabilites Commitments, and the burden-sharing between countries also need to be reviewed. The same is true of NATO Response Force and its use. Further work on NATO's strategic concept will also need to reflect NATO's relationship and cooperation with other international organisations. It includes the UN, but also various regional organisations such as the African Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e725	It is not every day that we manage to launch a defence policy debate in this Chamber, nor among the press in Norway and, to a large extent, not specifically for Norway either – the defence debate has not been very high on the agenda lately. That is why I would like to thank the representative Gustavsen for bringing it up today, and with a lot of good points during the post. State intervention also gave very positive signals as to what Norway's view of NATO's new strategic concept will be. I think we're facing quite major challenges when we're trying to get the concept to reflect on some of what we have on the agenda, and I'm thinking especially in the north. I've had the pleasure of being in this department for many years, and we've tried many times to point out the significance of the northern regions. I remember that when I arrived at the headquarters in Ramstein in 1999, the map of NATO did not cover even all of Norway. It ended at Trondheim. It took only two weeks to get it in place, but still – there is some kind of reluctance to believe that we have special conflict areas in the north. Many believe that the southern Mediterranean is very conflicty. When the representative of Kristiansen, and also the Council of State, points out the importance of this, I support it, and I think we must be quite imaginative in stressing the importance of focusing on the north. NATO has gradually become 60 years, and there is no doubt that the alliance is a success story. There shouldn't be much imagination to think that the period we've been through could have been completely different if we hadn't had the relatively strong NATO alliance during the Cold War. When the wall fell, there were many who thought that now NATO must cease, now NATO has no room anymore. I remember being on my way to a NATO meeting in Amsterdam just after the Wall had fallen, and then I remember the taxi driver saying, "I'm so glad my son is going to grow up in a peaceful world." Yes, I thought, it's good to be optimistic, but I don't have any particular faith in it. Well, we have managed to maintain peace in Europe, thanks to NATO, but not least thanks to the European Union, on which the representative Gustavsen was involved – I very much appreciate that it was also said in this Chamber. I had the pleasure of being in a NATO position when the new concept was created in 1999 and we were going to translate it from a strategic concept to a concept for the military forces. It was a pretty big challenge, because the threat was not what it had been before, and for what were the forces to be used? Then it was just focused on what's still a topic today: operations outside the core areas of NATO, where you're going to help resolve a conflict, where you're going to create peace. That was especially the point of creating peace that was the main point for us, and that we also included in the military exercises that were to be conducted. Because, with NATO's military capacity, it was not at that time – and it is not today – a great danger of losing a military conflict. Creating peace is much more difficult. I must be allowed to say that it is not everyone who has been on the world stage trying to create peace, who has thought through the problem from winning a military conflict situation until peace has been created. Because it's much harder. Gustavsen mentioned Article 5 and that it must be of greater importance. I think it's very difficult to gain greater importance, but that it has to be the core of NATO, there's no doubt about it either. Gustavsen was also concerned that we should look at the extensions. I'm very sceptical that we're going to go a little bit further in the expansion of NATO at the moment. It will quickly create conflicts. Imagine if Georgia had been a member of NATO when the conflict appeared there. We're going to be weirdly restrained. Fogh Rasmussen said the alliance is going to have to be a forum for constellations in global security issues. He emphasized that in his lectures in Munich this winter. Much indicates that the alliance is likely to deal with more conflicts outside the NATO alliance than within.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e751	To the previous speaker, Lars Myraune, I just want to say one thing. He called for defence debates and said that there are not so many of them. Well, we're constantly discussing the conflict in Afghanistan, which can be said in many ways to be a conflict where NATO's commitment would not have been if it wasn't just for the changes in NATO's strategic concept 11 years ago, which opened up to a greater degree of out of area operations, and which also created one of the things that SV has been very critical of in terms of NATO cooperation, namely the possibility of entering into without a UN mandate. One of the other things we've been busy about is NATO's first strategy and the resistance to the first beat strategy, which in many ways was one of the reasons why SV was founded in its time. Now we have a government – and we are several representatives – who are just talking about the need to change NATO's first battle strategy. We're discussing how NATO can go back to the core tasks to a greater degree than before. I think this is a very positive development. We have a government statement that states that we should not intervene internationally without UN operations. To Hans Olav Syversen, who was so critical here of the fact that this is going to be a less heated debate, I would say that I am very pleased that we have a development that goes in such a direction. But what's the main point of my post is that I sat and looked at the direct Obamas – the time Presidential candidate – talking where he was standing in Berlin in front of tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of people and saying he wanted to work for a nuclear-free world. I thought, "Help me, if this man gets power, there's hope for the future." I believe that the space that exists now, the space that is created on the basis of the fact that you have a president who has a completely different attitude to the nuclear question than George Bush had -- who, in my opinion, undermined part of the Non-Proliferation Agreement through part of the arrangements they made, who started an upgrade of a nuclear weapon shield that only created provocations and in addition helped support the nuclear industry in the United States, including. focus on making smaller nuclear weapons that could be used for, inter alia: Explosion of bunkers - gives us a completely different opportunity to take a step towards a nuclear-free world. I believe that there we have as biging, as backing and team players for the Government on these issues, a central role to play. Why is the strategic concept of NATO linked to the objective of a nuclear-free world and the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which should be the supervisory conference in May? That's because the role that NATO can play in taking steps in the right direction will be crucial. After all, when the Non-Proliferation Agreement was signed, it was an agreement in which all countries committed themselves to ensuring that those countries that did not have nuclear weapons would not have it in the future either. The counter-deal from the nuclear powers was just that they were going to work towards a nuclear-free world, for disarmament and for a nuclear-free world. Then it's extremely important that NATO, as a nuclear power, NATO, as an alliance that has nuclear weapons as part of its strategy, takes concrete action, takes concrete steps, and makes concrete changes to make sure to move in the right direction. We have three things that we think are concrete and important. One is that you have to remove the possibility of NATO using nuclear weapons first. For me it is, profoundly speaking, a moral question. If it is that a country, a nation or an alliance is willing to use nuclear weapons first, they really take responsibility for the eradication of human civilization as it is. That's why I think it's wrong. In addition, it will be important to remove the possibility of self-imposed restrictions to ensure that other countries in the world that are now striving to acquire nuclear weapons understand that nuclear weapons are not a real weapon that can be used in war, but a weapon that is purely political. The second is that we have to eliminate the deployment of American weapons in Europe. I'll just briefly say why it's important. It's important because in the United States, where the debate is going, they keep thinking about saying that the European allies want these weapons. We must therefore, as European countries, say that we do not want that. Third, here I'm just going to end by saying that we have to reinforce the goal that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e770	The debate is coming to an end. There have been many good posts. I just want to have a perspective within my measured speaking time, when we discuss NATO, which in my opinion is very important that we do not forget, namely the historical perspective. What was the background to the establishment of NATO and North Atlantic cooperation? I allow myself to quote two sentences from the so-called joint program of the parties in 1945: ‘The country’s defence is built up according to the experience of the war years, so it can be a protection for the country and fulfil our international military obligations. A positive effort is being made to establish an international security system on a legal basis.» It is important that we sometimes go back a little bit in history, and think through what was the background for – today – NATO, since that's what's on the agenda. There was a big debate in Norway after World War II. The goal was: never more than 9 April 1940. What was it right for Norway to do in such a situation? For a long time – or at least for a good period – a Nordic defence cooperation was worked on. You didn't do that. One thought it was right to associate with North European and North American friends after the war. We got the debate on the so-called Atlantic Pact, to which the Stortinget joined in 1949. I think it is important that we in a debate, when we now talk about the new strategic concept of NATO, also think about what was the situation 60 years ago. So the world has changed a lot in 60 years, and so has NATO. That is why we are discussing the new strategic concept. The world will continue to change. So NATO also has to change. It's important to shut down -- let's say -- some arrows for what kind of NATO we see for ourselves. Anyway, NATO is and must be a defence alliance. It is important to identify what is going to be NATO's core tasks. I don't know if it's right to use the concept of "put more" on the core tasks, which I hear people now using in the debate. I don't know if it's going to be right to say that you're going to bet more, if that means that you're going to bet less on something else. For the world is now quite complicated, so we have to bet on what was the traditional core tasks, and on other things, because the world and NATO cooperation are facing new challenges. We also have some challenges with the Norwegian defence linked to the new strategic concept. NATO's new Secretary-General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, was not long after his appointment, at a meeting in Stortinget, where he met the Foreign and Defence Committee. At that meeting, he said – I think he used that term – that he was concerned about how NATO defence was organised. The defence of NATO countries has major structural and organisational challenges. The defence of the NATO countries is made at a time when it was the cold war that applied and the threat picture so completely different. Today the world looks different. That is why NATO must change, and that is why the defence and defence structures of NATO countries must also change. That was Fogh Rasmussen's message to the Foreign and Defence Committee. Finally, a few points that are important to Norway in the debate on the new strategic concept and that become more important and important as the world appears. It concerns NATO's relations with other international organisations. One is NATO's relationship with the United Nations, which is important to Norway because Norway is a major contributor to the United Nations, and we all, at least most, have a positive and good relationship with the United Nations. The second is NATO's relationship with the European Union. For Norway as a non-EU member, it is important that we focus on how NATO will cooperate with the EU in the coming years. Finally, Russia is also an important point for Norway in the further work on the strategic concept. I meet colleagues in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Baltic States, from the United Kingdom and other NATO countries, where the scepticism of Russia, I think almost to say the hatred of Russia, is very great. We have to make sure to balance that we are both NATO members and have our friends in the NATO alliance, and that we also have a good relationship with Russia. It is important for Norway that we bring it into the work in months before which we now stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e796	Let me first of all thank you for a good debate, which shows that there is a broad welcome in this Chamber on our membership of NATO. I want to link a few comments to some of the things that have been presented. Let me then go back to what is the current strategic concept, which was decided in 1999. There you didn't really talk much about out of area. Then came the Nine-Eleven terrorist attack and Afghanistan, and suddenly operations outside their own territory became what almost took all the focus of the alliance. I think that is a very important point when we are now discussing what is NATO's strategy for the future. We can never be obtrusive about global development, and it also always affects what's happening in NATO. I want to stress that I do not see the big conflict between being involved in the neighbourhood initiative, as the Government has taken, and what is the Norwegian interest in participating in international operations. It is – as I said in my main post – two sides of the same case and lies in reciprocity, on which also the representative Syversen was in, in the NATO Alliance and Article 5. So, yes, please, both. I want to make some comments about what's going on in the economy, because we're in a financial crisis. It also challenges the defence economy in many Member States. It also does so in many EU countries. I spent some time in my main post on what's going on in the EU, and what's been going on in the EU in recent years. I believe that some of what we need to be concerned about is cooperation – the partnership – also in terms of the most efficient use of resources. There I think there are opportunities to do more in the future. And then there's nuances in how open we're going to be to membership. I think that in line with the fact that, which everyone has really talked about here, the world is changing day by day and becoming more closely integrated, it is very strange that you should say no at the same time, you should just never be open to new member countries. I think it's very important that you have some clear demands, which I was in the middle of my post, about what's going on to become a member of NATO cooperation. So just a slight comment about ISAF. I think it must be clarified here from this speaker that the ISAF operation has a clear UN mandate, so that has been said. And thank you all for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e811	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative to have a debate on this important issue. I will try to give short answers to the questions that have come up. Let me first say to the representative of Kristiansen from the Right, who asks whether there are consequences for the Norwegian defence when NATO is now discussing its strategic concept and also reform, that it is clear that the capacity of our Norwegian defence will be served by an effective alliance, and that therefore the reform work, as well as the revision of the strategic concept, is important. Of course, reform work, in addition to the political dimensions I have gone through in connection with the concept, will focus on how we can develop better common planning systems, better command control systems and more integrated exercise activities. The representative of the Seven of the Christian People's Party asks if I am in charge of either or. I'm not doing that. Our neighbourhood initiative, which was presented in 2008, is an expression of the fact that when we are entering the process of revising the strategic concept, we must be able to balance ambition and resources and think about long-term as well as short-term needs, which are not least linked to our participation in international operations. As for the heart attack from Myraune about him not finding Trondheim on the map, I have to say for my part that it has been interesting to see the interest I have met in these short weeks I have been Minister of Defence when I have taken up the neighbourhood initiative with my colleagues in both the United States and Canada, Nordic countries and others. It gives a renewed interest to discuss both climate challenges, energy resource management and new transport years. Of course, we will continue our work of raising awareness of the alliance around these questions. Finally, the question of the future deterrence of the alliance, including the importance of nuclear weapons, will also be central to the new strategic concept. The government's overall objective is known, and we want to work on the fact that this issue is also relevant to the further work on the concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e826	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e840	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e849	Today, the Storting treats a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party on an action plan for enhanced oil protection. The proposal is to be confused quite like a proposal and a matter which we discussed here in the Grand Duchy two years ago, including a document No. 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. The Committee has therefore also referred to this in its observations. Then you can ask yourself whether it is appropriate that the Storting should use time and capacity to deal with a similar proposal as soon as possible. In this case, I believe it is useful that the Storting takes a new discussion, because there have been several events since the last time, and because the fact that the theme is put on the agenda gives us the opportunity to comment on current issues within the area. The Committee is very concerned that the major activity taking place in Norwegian waters requires good maritime safety and oil protection. The Committee points out that clean seas are essential for Norway and Norway’s reputation, because large parts of Norway’s population ‘live and work in relation to what is produced in the sea and along the coast’ — hence the Committee majority’s impatience in obtaining an action plan and an environmental risk analysis, some of which are more impatient than others. From the Right, we have not found it right in this round to go into and define and define individual elements of such a plan before it is available as promised by the Ministry. We think that is unyielding, but I must nevertheless add that the impatience in the Right is also great. I hope that the Council of State will note this, and that the matter will soon be discussed, as promised in the letter of the Council of State to the Committee. The Full City Sea at Langesund once again showed that emergency procedures and handling are still far from optimal in Norway. The majority of the Committee therefore requests the Government to carry out an in-depth external evaluation of the oil protection operations and oil protection preparations in connection with this accident. I hope the majority of the Storing will join in this during the voting. In the Right's alternative budget proposal for the current year, we strengthened oil protection by 20 million. kr for increased towing boat capacity. In the right, we also thought that this money should be earmarked for the Rescue Company, which performs an outstanding preparedness and – we say – first line service in this important rescue work. They are often first in place, early in place, and have averted many major disasters that could have disastrous consequences. In the case of the German submarine U-864, located outside of Fedje, the raise has taken a new turn. A new report states that the Coastal Administration's handling of this matter is very incomplete. On the right, a quick case of this is expected for the Storting, because it is now important to move on to removing this source of pollution, so that the reputation of Norwegian seafood can still be maintained at a high level, and that the local population can feel safe. In the Right, we do not want any uncertainty about this and therefore ask the Council of State to follow up its response to the undersigned in a Question Time the other day, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e868	The Committee did not endorse the proposal of the representative of the Progress Party on an action plan for enhanced oil protection, as the rapporteur explained. But it ended up with the majority in the Committee, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, supporting the proposal for an external investigation of the Full City Sea outside Langesund in Telemark. For the Workers' Party, transport safety and preparedness are important areas of activity. The great activity in our waters means that maritime safety and oil protection must have a high focus, precisely in order to avoid such tragic accidents as we have had. And it is important to learn from these accidents in order to improve safety and preparedness. That the Workers' Party and the Government take this seriously, we have shown and show through what has been done in the last four years, and what is in the budget for the current year: A significant increase has been made in the appropriations for State oil protection equipment. Appropriations increase of 88 million. In 2009 we will continue in 2010. In addition, the main depot of Fedje is reestablished. So we've done a significant upgrade of oil protection equipment. Many measures have been taken in recent years to improve maritime transport safety. It has been set up in Vardø, and the towing gear has been strengthened both in North Norway and in the South. The development of towing gear in the West is now under consideration. Although all of this has been implemented, there is no disagreement in the Committee that an action plan for enhanced oil protection should be put in place. And as the ministry has explained in a letter to the committee, the ministry is in the process of doing a job that could result. The difference between the representatives of the Progress Party and the rest of us in the Committee is that the rest of us think it makes sense to await the updated Environmental Risk and Preparedness Analysis and their recommendation to the Action Plan. This is, of course, important information that must be the basis of an action plan — and not populist proposals that will not produce good enough results. Of course, with regard to the proposal for the external investigation of the Full City Sea, we in the Labour Party agree with what is outlined, that we must wait for the Coastal Authority's own evaluation before concluding on how to proceed. In addition, I would like to remind you that we have the State Disaster Commission for Transport. The Maritime Department of the State Maritime Commission for Transport became operational from 1 July 2008. As in the case of accidents in the other modes of transport, maritime accident investigations are aimed at identifying matters of importance for the prevention of new accidents and serious incidents and at improving maritime safety in general. I am aware of the fact that the State Emergency Commission is working with both the flag State and the shipping state to identify the cause of the Full City Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e895	Traffic along the Norwegian coast will increase sharply in the years to come, including: due to increased international trade and increased Russian oil and gas activities. In contrast to motorways and railways, the lake is a free, almost unlimited-capacity transport year, but the State must provide oil protection and other safety measures. Strong and reliable oil conservation along the coast of Norway is also important in view of Norway’s international reputation in relation to exports of fish, Norway as an international tourist destination and Norway’s reputation as an environmental nation. North of Norway is part of the fishing fleet included in the preparedness, which I was informed at the coastal works conference in December last year. This was done because many fishing boats have a significant towing capacity, such as: used for radiation. This available capacity is then common in the sea and therefore makes sense to include it in the emergency response. Where this has been done, it has been successful, and many incidents that could have led to serious accidents have therefore been reduced to near-accidents. Therefore, the fishing fleet is an important resource to put into use and should therefore be included as a natural part of Norwegian oil protection. The base support of the ‘Full City’ ship showed that oil preparedness along the Norwegian coast is too poor and that long-term changing governments have not prioritised oil protection preparedness. This is disappointing. The Progress Party - yes, the opposition - has this year after year, among others. in budgetary positions of the Transport Committee, warning of the poor oil protection response, but little or nothing is being done. Only when the accident is out does it look like it's going to be a little bit of a reaction, but we want a precautionary principle. When preparedness is in place, there is greater certainty that what could have been a major accident is almost an accident. Unfortunately, the 'Full City' has not been the only oil accident we have had in Norway in recent years. The cargo ship «Server» is listed on 12 January 2007 outside Fedje in North Hordland and 600 tonnes of oil leaked from the boat. Following the ‘Server’ loss, an external evaluation was presented by Norconsult on the management of acute oil pollution by the Swedish Coastal Agency, but only after pressure from, among others. The party of progress. I am therefore very disappointed that the government now seems to be in favour of an internal evaluation of the Full City Sea, instead of doing the job as well as last time, by leaving this job to external personnel. In 2005, the Stortinget addressed its own forecast of maritime safety and oil protection preparedness. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party then promoted a joint proposal to ensure a towing boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of 6 hours, and a maximum of 12 hours based on the coastal route. Today, ten years later, SV and the Center Party have changed their mind. This I think says a good deal about red-green credibility. In addition to the Committee's recommendation to which the rapporteur has referred, the Progress Party will present the proposals which the Progress Party has in this matter, either alone or in conjunction with the Christian People's Party, i.e. the proposals No. Two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e910	The representative Inbjørg Vosskensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e913	There is a high level of activity in Norwegian waters, which requires good maritime safety and oil protection. Clean seas are essential for Norway. Therefore, safety against pollution is a high priority. A large part of Norway's population has their livelihood based on the sea, what is produced there or along our long-range coast. The Government has substantially increased the annual budget for investment in its oil protection preparedness. There is also an increased focus on upgrading depots and equipment in general. The centre party is positive that it is working for sailing managers along the whole coast. We think it will be of great importance for future preparedness. Towing gear has increased and further plans are being made to strengthen it further. The Government and the Central Party support the continued commitment to oil protection continued to be based on the carrying out of environmental risk and preparedness analyses. The analysis being carried out by the Swedish Coastal Agency will provide input on how, among other things: shall ensure good material investment, changes in deposits and the recommended framework for courses and exercises. As mentioned above, the Coast Guard Agency will carry out an internal evaluation of the Full City action. This evaluation will cover the Coastal Authority’s action management and all parties involved externally and internally. We think it's important to wait for that. The evaluation will provide an overall assessment of the entire action and could provide a basis for justified improvements and recommend methods and new measures. I therefore believe that oil protection is a high focus today, the priority is clear, and there are a number of measures coming from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. On this basis, I would like to refer to proposal No. 1, concerning document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e932	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e935	It is five years since the Stortinget dealt with the last message of maritime safety, St.meld. No 14 for 2004-2005. So it's been five years. We've had months of experience since then, and I'm glad that we can now raise this to a higher level on the political agenda. I therefore agree with the case spokesperson, who says that there have been several things, and that it is therefore useful to have your own review. I would like to refer to the Swedish Coast Guard Agency’s 2005 report on oil protection, which shows that oil protection in Norway is too poor. This report confirmed that preparedness should be strengthened. I don't feel that report has been followed up in a good enough way. I am also pleased with the representative Bratli saying that a person is working on an action plan. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it has been important to address the proposals that we think might be useful to address in this action plan. It shall apply, inter alia, to: ensuring adequate security coverage, the equipment and condition of the equipment, which we want to ensure a good level of preparedness. It also applies to the proposal to ensure as soon as possible a tug-boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of six hours, and a maximum of 12 hours based on the shoreline. These proposals may be useful and good for the department to include in its work on the action plan. But the Christian People's Party has not chosen to go into the last proposal, proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party. It is not because we disagree with some of the substance in it – we are impatient – but we want to give the department sufficient time to arrive at a thorough and good result. The rescue company is making a very important effort at sea to save people from accidents at sea. The rescue company is in a range of downriver along the coast. The rescue company is also part of the backbone of oil protection along the coast. What I would like to challenge the Council of State is whether it should be appropriate to conclude agreements with the Rescue Company, which involves the purchase of services in the field of oil protection in general and towing equipment in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e946	Proposal 8:13 S of the Progress Party for 2009-2010 requests the Government to submit an action plan for enhanced oil protection with committed funding. Furthermore, ask for an overview of whether sufficient resources are available to ensure a desired level of preparedness. It is proposed that the Government should ensure a towing boat capacity with given response time requirements and that an external evaluation of the oil protection operation is carried out after the loss of ‘Full City’. As I have pointed out in my reply to the Committee, I believe that the requests for this action plan and resource plan will be met with the environmental risk and preparedness analyses that the Swedish Coastal Agency will carry out in 2010. I have noticed that the representatives of the Progress Party in the vote continue to put forward their proposal for an action plan, but that the timing of this has naturally been postponed, from 2009 to the revised national budget in 2010. Furthermore, I see that the representatives of the Progress Party, with the support of the Christian People's Party, have maintained the proposal that the Government should provide an overview of resources in relation to the required level of preparedness. I do not disagree with the very content of these proposals. But I believe, as I have also pointed out in my reply to Stortinget, that the investment in this area, as in the past, will be based on professional assessments of environmental risks and related preparedness analyses. I therefore do not consider it advisable or appropriate to present anything to Stortinget until the Swedish Coastal Agency has completed its environmental risk and preparedness analyses. I would also like to remind you that in recent years – under the Stoltenberg government – a significant increase has been made in the appropriations for investment in State oil protection equipment. Appropriations increase of 88 million. kr in 2009 continued in 2010. This is in addition to the increase of 25 million. SEK in 2008 and the appropriation of SEK 29 million. kr for the restoration of the main depot in Fedje. Overall, this means that coastal preparedness for oil protection equipment is in the process of being significantly upgraded. That is good, and it is in line with what the Coastal Agency recommended in its 2006 status report. I would also like to stress that in recent years the Government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the risk of coastal accidents. There is a navigational guidance system off the coast of North Norway and a traffic centre in Vardø monitoring risk traffic along the Norwegian coast. Furthermore, in North Norway, towing gear has been strengthened and a state towing gear has been established in the South. As regards the development of towing gear in the West, it is known to be assessed in the Ministry. As soon as it is finished, the government will return to Stortinget with the matter in an appropriate way. An important measure we are currently working on is to establish routes off the coast, similar to the system established between Vardø and Røst. The proposal is being consulted and aims at promoting the case for the UN Maritime Organisation in the spring of 2010. Despite the implementation of a number of prevention measures, there will always be a risk of marine adverse events. We must therefore also ensure that we have a good preparedness for acute pollution. The foundation of the vessel MV «Full City» outside Langesund in Telemark last summer, which several have visited, shows us how important this is. The Coastal Agency is now carrying out an evaluation of the Full City action. I will go through the Coastal Agency’s evaluation and, in the light of what appears there, assess whether there is a need for action and, if necessary, for further investigation of some issues. At the same time, it is important to point out that the State oil protection operation is still ongoing. I will come back to Stortinget about that matter in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e969	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e973	I record that the Council of State does not take the consequences of what happened after the “Server” accident. It is also what we have seen in other agencies, that we choose to produce an internal audit report rather than an external one. Does the Council not see that it would have been just as good to get an external evaluation right away to avoid having to get a new external report afterwards, as one had to after the MS ‘Server’ accident? There was crushing criticism in that report. Then I want to challenge the Council of State: I have here the report on Norwegian towing boat readiness. My specific question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that we now have a tugboat stand that is in line with what the Government believes is a responsible and good tugboat stand and oil protection stand, or does the Council of State think we don't have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e980	I was in my post on the evaluation after the Full City crash. The Coast Guard Agency, which is set to do that job, has also engaged a consultant company, PricewaterhouseCoopers, to assist the department in carrying out that evaluation. PricewaterhouseCoopers shall implement and coordinate the information collection and compile it for an evaluation report. Furthermore, the Climate and Pollution Directorate has launched a back-end check on Vestfold and Telemark inter-municipal samples against acute pollution. The sum of this I find satisfactory from the fact that we will have a report. But, as I said, I will go through that report carefully to make sure that all the elements are taken up. In the case of towing boat standby and oil protection, my opinion is that we are well in the process of getting a good system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e987	I am pleased that the Council of State says that it agrees with much of the content of the proposals, and that she wants to introduce that process into the department and come with an action plan when the time is right. I'm glad. I also challenge the Council of State in my contribution when this is the case with private actors. I mentioned the rescue company in particular. This is an area where we can also get assistance from private operators. The rescue company is one of those who work very widely. My question is therefore: can it be relevant in the action plan currently being worked on by the Ministry to consider concluding an agreement with the Rescue Company, which involves the purchase of services in the field of oil protection in general and towing readiness in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e994	We have an agreement with the Rescue Company, and a state framework grant will assist in the company's efforts in the action-oriented rescue service and accident prevention work in coastal management. I feel that it works well today. I have met the Rescue Company and gone through the areas where we see that it can be further developed. It is quite obvious that the company is an important player in emergency preparedness along the coast. Having said that, I have to say that the Rescue Company has too little towing capacity to be included in a standing towing gear, but will be a good resource in holding the vessel until sufficient towing power reaches the Hagarist. The same applies in the case of oil protection operations. They'll be a useful supplement. They're in place fast. But they will not be able to take over the tasks of oil protection in general. The life skates are not built for, nor do they have equipment for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1001	I'll keep talking a little bit about the Rescue Company. The Council of State says the rescue company's arrangements are working well. At the hearing of the Committee in relation to the budget, the Rescue Company was present and stated that due to the failure of the Government's appropriations, they had to reduce the fleet by two vessels. To follow up some of what the representative Hareide picked up, it's just that they're fast on the ground because they're located most of the places along the coast and can pull out at very short notice and keep a seafarist for a while, until there's bigger and more powerful tugboats come to. We got a lot of examples of this when they were present at the hearing. Many of us seem to have been reassuring, so I challenge the Council of State again: Wouldn't it be an idea to enter into an agreement with the Rescue Company about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1010	As I said in my previous reply, I have also met with the Rescue Company, and I am impressed and very pleased with the service they offer. At that meeting, of course, we also went through the economic aspects of the agreement we have with the Rescue Company and the Framework Grant. In 2010, 42 million were granted. kr in grants from my budget. In addition, there is also funding from the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church – now, of course, it is no longer called the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of the Church, but that was the case before. When it is mentioned that they reduce by two vessels, I think we should also include that the new vessels have a significantly larger radius – they are faster – so the overall availability of rescue services is probably not much smaller, although it is reduced by two vessels. I have said to the rescue company that I would like to maintain a dialogue with them about the company's further operation, but as I said in my previous reply, the boats they have today are not rigged to be part of the standing capacity, neither in terms of towing boat or oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1021	National oil protection preparedness is a national insurance premium. Good insurance is also important for Norway’s reputation abroad. It's enough to point to both fish and tourism. The management of U-864 by the Government and the Council of State is important for the same reasons. The management of 67 tonnes of mercury is important for the same reasons. It is important for Norway’s international reputation. The weather gives a room for action every summer. The room for action we see now, as the case has evolved so far, is in the summer of 2011. Is the Council of State concerned about being able to get a clarification so that we can use that space of action, or are we now losing a year, so that it might be postponed until 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1028	The representative of Sortevik pointed to very important arguments regarding both U-864 and coastal conditions in general: the importance of having good preparedness and good systems in place if things happen. In the case of U-864, I was in Stortinget and answered in a question hour quite recently that in the near future we will come back to Stortinget with a matter of this. I can repeat that with further strength: I will definitely come back to Stortinget in the near future. I will then come up with the proposals that I have made, precisely in view of the importance of having a clean coast and a safe environment for the population along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1035	I did not ask if we were doing well with the oil protection equipment and the towing boat gear; I asked specifically whether the Council of State thought that the proposals contained in the towing boat emergency report had been followed up, whether it was safe and good enough to prevent the accidents that we have seen in recent years from repeating themselves, and whether all the critical comments that came after the “Server” report have been taken care of and followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1040	If reference is made to the Coastal Works report, which in the setting is referred to as being from 2005, but which is from 2006, I can say with my hand on the heart that I have a good conscience that we have fulfilled in a good way – it is sometimes used for concepts such as ‘overfilling’. If you look at the sums entered by the Government – back to 2005 in fact, it was probably the last year that Bondevik submitted a case on this, and until today – there is a total of 340.2 million spent. kr. In the report to the Coastal Works, there was an investment need of 325 million. kr. So, of course, it'll always be a discussion about what's good enough. I can see that. In any case, I would say that such measures as this are an ongoing assessment that one has to take gradually. We will have the opportunity to discuss this when the Coastal Works produce their next report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1047	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1053	National oil protection preparedness is a national insurance premium. It is important that Norway is well insured against the extensive and devastating consequences of oil spill events. Norway has a long-distance coast, with extensive coastal traffic, both close to the coast and beyond. In addition, there is oil activity in the North Sea. All three conditions present a significant overall risk of oil spills. To date, Norway has been lucky, but some events – mainly through shipwreck – have occurred, oil spill events, oil spills and extensive oil spills removal efforts. Significant risk requires good insurance. Good insurance must be shown in ambition, in equipment and in readiness. The Progress Party believes that oil protection must be strengthened, we must lift ambition and insure Norway better against the risk of oil spills and oil silage. We believe Norway as a significant oil nation should have the ambition to be good at oil protection. Good insurance also includes good protection, and we get good protection through an effective towing boat repair. The West still lacks the preparedness that has been put in place elsewhere along the coast, and this needs to be corrected urgently. Among other things, we have pointed to the Rescue Company, which others had been in before my post, as an important part of a good fuse through efficient towing boat preparation. Strong and reliable coastal oil protection is important for our international reputation. Then I have another opportunity to repeat what we have said in the suspension, that the handling of U-864 is important for the same reason: how Norway manages the lifting and removal of the submarine, how Norway manages the lifting and removal of the 67 tonnes of mercury in the submarine. We would like to stress that the decision to lift and remove must be firm. We would like to stress that the work on this matter should aim at the rescue operation to lift the submarine and remove the mercury being carried out in the summer of 2011, which is the action window we have. We are familiar with the developments in the matter. We are aware that those who have carried out quality assurance have, to put it diplomatically and carefully, little experience in quality assurance of rescue operations, large rescue operations. It is better to say that they have no experience whatsoever in such quality assurance. It must be heavy when the department now, as we have heard the Council of State say, quickly – she has said soon so many times that it must mean very soon – comes back with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1066	It was something special to record that the Council of State now said that it had followed up this report on national towing boat readiness. Here there are definitely quite a few concrete proposals for solutions that have not been followed up. So in the West we don't have a satisfactory towing boat stand, and we don't have it in the East to the Swedish border, so I definitely don't think the reality of the Council of State and the Government that the report on national towing boat preparedness has been followed up is consistent with the actual situation. I can say, since I come from the place where the last accident was, that it is reasonable to experience in particular that tons of oil just pours into the spring, and see what feelings it engulfs in the local people who experience this. It's fair to say that when you hear that you have a good oil protection system in this country, it takes an incredible amount of time before oil lances, among other things. is being outlawed. And then you say that we have good oil protection, that we have good equipment. Equipment had to be picked up from all over the country to be able to clean up what is so-called small emissions compared to what could have been the consequence if all the oil had leaked out. Then it would have been not only 250 tons of oil, but maybe four or five times as much, if everything had cleaned up. I feel that there is a long way between the reality that the council has, and the reality that we experienced when we saw how to work at the scene after the accident. I want to give praise to all those who stood on and did a real job. This is not a criticism of them in the Coastal Works, in the IUA or other people who stood on and did everything they could to try to meet the challenges, but it says something about having a readiness that is far away as you try to make it in this room, and that former government councils in this area have tried to make it when the accident is out and the consequences become formidable. I'm recording that the representative Bratli was involved in the State Disaster Commission. Yes, I am also concerned about and think that it is very good with the State's accident commission. But what the Progress Party is concerned with with this proposal is that we want to be in the forefront – before the accident happens – to prevent the accident from happening. The whole point of the proposal is to put this action plan in place as quickly as possible to learn from the accidents that have already occurred and to ensure that no more accidents occur along our coast. Where the last accident happened, you might have some of the best resources available not far away. The consequence would be even more disastrous if it had happened elsewhere in the country, without the same preparedness in the neighbourhood. This is a challenge, and I therefore hope that a majority will be given to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1077	First of all, I would like to point out that the Progress Party in this matter, which concerns an action plan on enhanced oil protection, wants much better oil protection than the government parties. When we talk about enhanced oil protection, we also talk about active practical environmental protection and not least environmental protection policy. There is a reason why we want a tugboat stand along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of six hours and a maximum of twelve hours, based on the sailing path along the coast. Oil protection and environmental protection are also the reasons why we want to increase the level of deposit so as to ensure the level of preparedness. When we know that we've had one serious accident or one serious near-accident every year in the last ten years, it's quite appropriate to get an increased preparedness. The Council of State was concerned that the north had been strengthened in terms of towing capacity. That's right. Before we had two boats in the winter and three in the summer. Now we have three all year long. It's the North Zone bet that's inside, and it's not big. Today, in the north, we are experiencing a significant increase in the transport of Russian oil and gas. In the future, we know that with all probability, the north-east pass will be opened, which in turn calls for increased preparedness and, not least, availability of preparedness. With the infrastructure we have today on the roads in Finnmark, we don't have anything called the coast road. This refers to long distances and the loss of time in the event of an accident. This is not beneficial, because we know that in an accident, the time factor is crucial in terms of cleaning. Finally, the rest of the country has something to learn from Finnmark in this matter, namely to implement the fishing fleet in standby along the entire Norwegian coast — as related to the discharge of bilges. This will be crucial in terms of the time factor, and not least in terms of optimum preparedness, ensuring that we are free to go and rot in oil spills in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1090	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1771]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1106	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1115	It can certainly be said that the attention to the railway is slightly greater now than it was when the committee gave the setting before Christmas — at good and bad. The case we are dealing with now concerns a proposal from the Right on the restructuring of the Railway Agency to two State limited liability companies – a company that is responsible for managing the development and operation of railway property and infrastructure, and another company that is responsible for the development and maintenance of lines in competitive activities. Norwegian Railways have been subject to changes in the past. In 1996, the then NSB was divided into three different departments: the Railway Agency, the NSB and the State Railway Authority. In 2002, further deregulations were made, including: NSB became its own AS. In the vote, the Committee would point out that a few years ago the Stortinget dealt with a similar proposal, which was then only put to the vote by the representatives of the Progress Party. The Committee is in agreement on the need to upgrade and modernise Norwegian railways, and in any form of connection there will be a need for large annual government budget appropriations. With regard to the view on the form of connection for the Railway Works, the Committee shares its views. A minority of the committee, consisting of the governmental parties, does not wish to change the form of the railway network's association, while the other members of the committee have different proposals in the case, which I assume they will explain and justify themselves. In the following I will therefore explain why the Workers' Party does what we do in this case. It is no exaggeration to say that the railway is in a demanding time. All the focus should now be focused on addressing the challenges we are now facing. I don't think a restructuring of the Railway Agency to two state limited liability companies is the way to go, and the time we are in now is at least not the time for yet another conversion process in an organisation that is already in a conversion process. The most important thing that politicians can do is to ensure that the railway has good and long-term framework conditions. The main measures to modernise and streamline the Norwegian network are to implement planned maintenance and investment according to the plans of the national transport plan. This is not a budget debate, but it is nevertheless right to recall that railway investment has increased significantly in the last four years. We have a national transport plan that involves a stepping up of NOK 33 billion more to the railway in the years to come. If you're busy with the railway, you have to give money when you're in position to do it, and that's what the Workers' Party and the other government parties do. The numbers' speech is ready. It shows here that today's opposition neglected when they themselves put in power. I realize it's hard to realize, but it's a fact. So the question of restructuring is what it takes to get the railway on rail. As the proposers point out, the Railway Agency is responsible for a good share of the operational deviations in train traffic – although neglect and lack of appropriations for decades is what causes operational deviations, and it has been a political responsibility that we all have to take. And then it points to unexplained responsibilities. I think it's a bad idea to fix it by splitting up and making things even more unclear. We have to admit that the railway has a credibility problem today. For some people an AS is the solution to that. In choosing the form of a company, an important argument is the existence of significant commercial activity and the possibility of income. The lack of self-financing by the railway works and the high social interests associated with the railways make the Workers' Party consider this to be inappropriate. There is also no small amount of money that would have to be spent on means of conversion, on money that is more sensible to spend on operation, maintenance and investment. The possibilities of borrowing are also a justification used in the proposal. I agree that major transport projects need to ensure predictability and rational implementation. Therefore, it is good that the largest railway project in the next few years, Oslo-Ski, has been drawn out as a separate project, with its own entry on the state budget to secure the project funding and continuous development. Also on the road we have such projects now. I think it might make sense to do more of that. But I am not in favour of undermining the budget procedure of the Stortinge or the treatment of the national transport plan, to which it can in some way be added. It is up to us politicians to ensure good framework conditions for the railways, and we are now taking that responsibility. The effects of previous fragmentations, separations and degradation are now apparent. There is a lack of competence in the Railway Agency. What we're doing now is we're building an organization that's robust and competent. The focus that we as politicians, the Railway Agency and other actors now need is to do what we can to sort out the train chaos that we see now. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1141	The representative of Gorm Kjernli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1144	It could have been tempting to start a debate on the train problems and the short-term challenges we face, but that is not what this matter is about. I think it was quite interesting to listen to the representative Gorm Kjernli. He brags unhesitatingly because the speech of the numbers is ready -- yes, that's how we actually do it. I record that most things have been quiet on the railways for the past few weeks. Then I register that the Gorm Kernli is most concerned about, is shooting at everyone else. So now this government has been sitting for four and a half years. Those on the Transport Committee throughout the last period were always responsible for the previous government. I think you might start taking responsibility for what you're doing yourself after four and a half years, and it's actually about being willing to increase the appropriations, and about how much you're willing to increase the appropriations. That is what this is all about, and it is a political decision. There the Progress Party is very clear and clear. In our alternative state budget and in our alternative national transport plan, we have proposed a strong uplift to both road and rail. I am pleased that the Right has now addressed this important matter in Stortinget. This is a slightly longer-term matter. The Progress Party made a similar proposal on the reorganisation of the Railway Agency in 2007, but it only received the votes of the Progress Party at that time. That the Right now has turned the case around, I think I promise very well for the future, and that is a good cooperation invitation to a new government. I would also like to stress that it is and has been a very good cooperation climate in the handling of this important matter. While the NSB and the other train companies have been competitively oriented over the past few years, it seems that the Railway Agency has not been fully able to keep track of it in the hour. In fact, the punctuality of passenger trains has fallen since 2005, including: due to increased traffic on the rails, and there is no doubt that this can only be resolved through infrastructure investments and a competitive orientation of the rail network. The railway works should be reorganised into two companies – two companies to distinguish the roles of the state that builds up and the state that owns. Such an organisation should enable loans to be raised for major interrelated projects, irrespective of the annual budgets. At the same time, annual maturity will be made visible through depreciation on existing lines. This is also about money, and let there be no doubt – as I said earlier – that the Advance Party is putting out the money that is needed. In our 2010 alternative state budget, we have set at NOK 6.8 billion more than what the government has put in. This is money that we need to make the necessary investments and maintenance on the railway network. Among other things, we want to do this through a government loan scheme for transport purposes. There is, of course, some point in transforming the Railway Agency into companies, namely that they will have the opportunity to raise loans and thus carry out important development projects, without being dependent on the allocations of the annual government budgets. As I said, I think it's a little special -- I need to get back to the current situation. Former Minister of Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, called for a crisis meeting with the Railway Agency and the NSB in August 2007, February 2008 and October 2008. Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa followed up with a new crisis meeting on 7 January 2010. Obviously, the crisis meetings are not helping. We must take action as real monks, both in terms of the organisation of the railway works, and not least in terms of the level of investment, where there are bottlenecks in the system. Splitting up and market orientation of the railway works is a measure that will really make sense, and that will ensure that we get a network that is on track again. I would therefore like to put forward in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1163	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1166	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is coming to Stortinget in this matter, but I would like to see her come here with an overall statement to have a debate on what the Government wants with Norwegian railway policy. I demand an overall political leadership for the offer. These measures are many, the instruments are the same, and today the theme is detoxification in roles and organisation. All delays and cancellations in train traffic have been lamented by the right. Countless train passengers are affected year after year. Patience has ceased, and trust is gone. It's used 272 million. kr to upgrade and improve the network in the Oslo area in the last two years, without having helped. 470 million must be used. NOK only in 2010. The Railway Director promises no improvement. The Minister of Transport says it's going to get worse before it gets better. It won't last. It is time to adapt railway management to developments in society, with changing requirements for efficiency, ease of use and service. The National Audit Office points out in its 2008 Administrative Audit that the Railway Agency is responsible for an ever-increasing share of the operational deviations in train traffic and that unexplained responsibilities make the work of avoiding delays unnecessarily difficult. Government enterprises do not always provide optimal services to users. There are good examples of successful structural changes and subsequent sales in government enterprises. Telenor, Mesta and Avinor are good examples of new organisation providing better operation and a better offer to users. The reorganization of the state road system and the elimination of Mesta resulted in a saving of 850 million. kr annually – money we now spend on better roads instead of on a little efficient administration. The railway system is today a very large and unbridled organisation with too broad a field of responsibility. The organisation is both ordering and carrying out, while the Railway Agency itself also assumes a significant responsibility for preparedness. In order for rail policy to be efficient and competitive, the Right sees the need for modernisation and reorganisation. Not only do we need better regularity, but we also need better infrastructure quality. Travelers must have good enough rail services, and new thoughts are needed. In order to meet today's and tomorrow's requirements for rail services, the Right believes that the best solution is to modernise the railway works by transforming them into two limited liability companies. We propose that one company be responsible for managing the development and operation of railway infrastructure. The size shall continue to adopt the long-term plans and general guidelines, but shall not guide the priorities in detail. The company shall acquire the ownership of – and revenues from – the commercial operation of station buildings and station areas. Here we have a lot to pick up. This will lead to more comprehensive planning and development of station areas. In addition, it will also be able to generate large revenues in the same way that Avinor’s large airports provide revenues to co-finance investments and maintenance. The possibilities are many, and the station areas are also. The other limited liability company shall carry out the development and maintenance of railway infrastructure. The regularity of the railway is directly linked to the quality of the infrastructure. The maintenance of the network should be a State responsibility, but the execution of the maintenance need not be. The company should therefore compete for contracts with other operators in the industry, in the same way that Mesta operates in the road sector. A structural change like this means that today's railway works are modernised and restructured in order to have as good a chance to operate effectively and competitively as other state-owned restructured companies have been given. It is, of course, assumed that companies are established in line with EEA legislation. Because the problems with the railways are persistent, it is now time to think about new things about organisation. We in the Right want to end the delays and cancellations, and it is time to get the train on rails. Then it is also important that we allow ourselves, with fresh and new eyes, to look at reorganization and new responsibilities. I'm taking up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1192	The representative Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1195	Let me first just point out a small error in the setting. Under the 'Suggestions by minorities' it is stated that proposal No. 1 is from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party – it should of course be the Center Party, not the Christian People's Party. It is good that the Right has now begun to take an interest in trains, but it is an expression that is called «throwing the child out with the bath water», and that is what the Right Party and the Advance Party do when they propose to split the Railway Agency into two state companies. As a commuter, I am dismayed at how slowly it goes with the expansion and how bad service we encounter very often. The relationships of shattering governments with the train have been more treacherous than any love story can be. We are struggling with delays in maintenance and development. The red-green government has done a huge boost by treble the appropriations, but at the same time it must be said that it is not enough. Population growth in the eastern region will increase the volume of transport, and road construction cannot solve this. The last decade's highway expansion has only moved on the bottlenecks. At the same time, if we are to have a climate-sustainable transport, it actually requires a tripling of the train usage at the expense of a car. So it's absolutely necessary to increase the rate of railway development. But as a commuter, I am fully stated when I see proposals like the Advance Party and the Right. Yes, we have problems with the railway – it's late – but let's not be in despair about this jumping at solutions that will make things worse. It's like Stein Nilsen said, to discuss the wallpaper on the second floor when it burns on the first floor. Let's not jump on solutions just because it's something new. We don't have to do more of what's not useful, just to demonstrate something that's going to look like a political force. I can't wait any longer on the platform because someone wants to carry out ideological experiments. We have extensive experience from other countries so that fragmentation does not solve the problem. Switzerland is the best railway country in the world – you can set your sweat clock after the train there. There the state railway also owns the track. When British Rail was privatized, the United Kingdom got a private company that owned the railway. They split up responsibility in different areas and invested in large-scale outsourcing. But the company went bankrupt, and the first thing the new state railway company did was to take up the job of collecting responsibility for regaining control of maintenance and development. Norway is a much smaller railway country than the United Kingdom and Switzerland. Even more than that, we're dependent on the use of cancers targeted and combined. There is a lack of competence, financial strength and materiality. The solution is not split. In addition to, for example: The flight train and the NSB shall compete against each other rather than cooperate for the benefit of the travellers. The evening post today writes about the major problems of the Railway Agency in providing skilled labour. The last greeting of the Bondevik II administration to our travellers was to split up the railway works. There was a notice of termination of 800 employees, and many took final packages and disappeared. Sense about the red-green government making that decision, the Railway Agency is still struggling to get back those who quit. The policy of the Bondevik government led to that on the Westfold Railway there were no people left to repair overhead lines, and that the lack of people who were able to handle signalling systems was precarious. We don't get a well-functioning rail system on the East until we get double tracks on the Halden-Lillehammer-Skien route. I agree that it should be built as a project – coherent. It is quite right that it will lead to lower development costs, faster implementation and thus greater societal benefits. But it can be done in many ways. There is no need to throw the child out with the bath water, i.e. to split up some company in order to get such long-term funding. The State budget provides for a scheme for Oslo-Ski. I believe that the government must propose a similar overall expansion of double tracks for the entire intercity triangle. But it's one thing that we can hopefully get back to in the state budget. The Vestfold railway lost 200000 passengers last year as a result of the opening of a new four-field road to Tønsberg. At that time, the NSB had reached about the level of passengers that they lost the last time a motorcycle race was opened. I want to challenge the majority parties in the Transport Committee: Will it now be the train’s turn – also at the expense of future major motorway projects in the East?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1218	The president records the error of the representative Lars Egeland pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1221	The aim of the reorganisation of the Railway Agency to state enterprises is that the company should be able to raise long-term loans in order to provide important railway development. A loan availability will provide long-term, prudent and clear funding. I particularly want to point out that the big investments we are making on the railways, not least in the central urban areas, are absolutely necessary, I think, in order to realise these big projects. Only in the Oslo–Akershus region, where today there are one million people, will there be half a million people in 2030. In 2055–2060, there will be two million people here. We must then have an extension of the railway in this area in order to meet the needs of population growth alone. The proposal that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind today, is not something that we only have sucked of our own breasts. I must be allowed to quote Sigbjørn Johnsen who, after the national transport plan was presented, stated the following: "It tells an unpleasant truth. Norway is lagging behind in meeting the national infrastructure needs both in terms of rail and road.» Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen goes on to say: ‘In addition, we believe that the Railway Agency and the State Road Service should be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks, as is the case with Avinor for aviation and Entra for state building needs. This can be done by transforming these institutions into state undertakings or wholly owned state limited liability companies. Investments must be depreciated/depreciated over their lifetime and, to the extent necessary, additional financing shall be provided by borrowing either through State intervention or in the market.» I think these are wise words from Sigbjørn Johnsen, who points out that we need a renewal, and even though the Christian People's Party does not go as far as Sigbjørn Johnsen can do, I think that getting a state enterprise could give greater freedom to the railway works and lead us to the necessary progress. I want to use a specific example, and that's the Lysaker-Asker section. So she would, according to the Railway Agency itself, have cost half a billion less if one had built her out in five years instead of ten years. I would like to quote from the Evening Post: ‘After the plan, the final stage of four tracks between Asker and Lysaker shall be completed in 2011. The journey time from Asker to Oslo is cut from 25 to 18 minutes. The building started in 2001 and has received money year after year over the state budget on a cash basis. If the distance had been completed five years earlier, the government would save billions. [[JBV]] According to the Railway Agency's calculations, the State has lost up to SEK 560 million to build the section bit by bit over ten years. Revenue lost is more than one billion dollars. – If you build a bit by bit, you will not get the benefit until you build the last piece, explains Johnny Brevik, Regional Director East of JBV.” I think this shows very clearly the effect of the proposal that we are debating today – an opportunity to see the soundness of this. I think the Railway Agency needs a clear incentive structure. I thought we should look at Avinor, where Avinor gets his income when they deliver. Today, the Railway Agency is experiencing a bad incentive structure. Even if it won't be as far as there's any suggestions here, there's something I'm asking the Council of State to consider without looking at the form of organization itself, but see if the Railway Agency needs to get clearer incentives, that is. be paid when they deliver, and not paid when they do not deliver. I think I'll solve the challenges between the NSB and the Railway Agency. I take up the proposal from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1251	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1254	The left shares the intentions of the proposers for the modernisation and restructuring of the Railway Agency. This is about new financing solutions and about organisation. Within the organisation, the primary position of the Left is that the part of the railway works’ production activities that does not per. is currently exposed to competition, should be so. Today, the best solutions are chosen by the Railway Agency if they are provided by a private contractor. It's going to affect the travellers. It promotes the various proposals for the organisation of the Railway Agency, as well as working on a government loan scheme and project financing for transport purposes. It's for the left, but at the same time we want to wait for these investigations and plans before we draw the conclusion on which types of company are most suitable for the management part of the railway works. That is why the Left is voting for the vote, but against the minority proposals here today. It is apparent from this that modernisation and renewal are in place. That being said, I sincerely hope for a change in course in this area. Nobody's earned that we're building agencies and state companies that center the structures, and that don't take on the fact that the world is changing. A good start to the work of government parties in the renewal and modernisation of the railway works would be to separate the operation and maintenance tasks of the railway works in a state company so that such production would be put at a competitive disadvantage. The State should not have the task of entrepreneurship, and that is also why the Bondevik II government separated the production tasks from the State Road Administration – today’s Mesta. Today's Mesta AS is doing today the job that the production department did, but much more effectively, that the representative Ingerd Schou was also in his post. This scheme is also clearer in terms of role-sharing and quality control. It's good for the community, and it's good for the employees. Individuals are faced with challenges and, at the same time, with more responsibility for the job to be done. I am recording that in the evening post today it is clear that the Railway Agency is doing all the ongoing maintenance itself. Here we are talking about annual billions in appropriations. There are good reasons to believe that this can be made more effective. I also read, which left has long known, that there are entrepreneurs in line to assist the Railway Agency in their work. This means that the basis for fair competition is present and that it is possible to carry out maintenance operations on the track in Norway, and in particular in the central east region, which has previously been rejected by both the Council of State and the railway director. So back to loan schemes and project financing. I think it's funny that the majority is not in favour of the committee's recommendation to start work on the possibilities of borrowing and project financing. At the National Labour Party meeting in 2009, a bench proposal was adopted with 150 votes against. 130 votes, the following text: ‘In order to ensure the rational development of major transport projects, the Workers’ Party will contribute to project financing of road and rail sections.’ I also have difficulty believing that it is the Minister of Finance who puts his foot down. Hareide quoted a lot from the Minister of Finance, who himself has written chronicles about the theme together with Mads Sandman. One step along the way would be to go into the committee's advice, but here it has to be SV and the Center Party blocking an important matter, which I think has a solid majority in the Stortinge behind it. An offensive start to work project financing within the railway sector could be a Public Private Cooperation on the new double track Oslo-Ski. It would contribute to a reduction in construction time and to a more coherent and efficient installation. I have a hope that the government sees the value of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1276	The government has launched an important and demanding modernisation of the railway system through a significant increase in the railway system’s licensing, particularly in the 2009–2010 budget and also by increasing the national transport plan’s commitment for 2010–2019. Furthermore, the Government has made it possible for the NSB to purchase 50 new trainsets to be put into service from 2012 in connection with a new timetable. The new timetable will significantly improve train traffic, especially in the Oslo area, where the operational problems are greatest. A power cap is needed to upgrade the Norwegian network, both by renewing the existing network, by building new facilities and by increasing capacity and reducing travel time. In order to achieve this, it is in my view wrong to change the connection forms, so that the railway works are split up into several organisational units. This poses only greater problems by the fact that the soundness of railway operations disappears even more. In addition, I mean that none of the most current arguments for transformation from the department to the company are leading. The railway works will not have a large commercial activity. The railway works should not have a high degree of financial freedom and responsibility, but should be subject to a high level of political governance at a superior level. On the basis of the Committee's recommendations and proposals for decisions from the majority of the Committee, I perceive that the three parties go away from the proposal for a representative to turn the Railway Agency into two limited companies, and instead ask the Government for the first time to issue a model for a government loan scheme for transport purposes, and, secondly, to ask the Government to come back with a plan for financing new, larger investment projects in order to ensure the rational and coherent development of the project. In the case of proposal No: 1 on a government loan scheme, I see that the three parties also believe that the construction of railway infrastructure in Norway must mainly be financed by the government budget, whether it is done, as today, with the ordinary licenses for the construction of the individual project or the granting of instalments and interest on government loans for the individual project. State loans, if any, must also be paid over the annual government budget. It's only the Storting that has the ability to raise future government budgets. Regardless of how the state funding of investments in new railway infrastructure is to be made, I believe that the annual average level of government investment cannot be higher than the annual fees, less interest costs, if any, if the investments are to be financed. I find it hard to imagine a situation in which shifting sizes and shifting governments may wait over several electoral periods without the possibility to implement new investment projects on the railway, because the licenses have to be used to pay down old debts that have been settled in the past. In my view, a debt financing scheme for new railway installations does not give more long-term freedom of action. On the contrary, such a scheme may provide more long-term bonds and additional charges in the form of interest charges. This is, of course, an important reason why the Storting has set annual cash commitments and, at the same time, gives special powers each year if government operations need to commit future budgets. In the case of proposal No: 2, as the topic of ‘project finance’ has become a special reference word in the political change of word. Until now, the State has been required to finance all its railway investment projects entirely without any specific assistance from others. So far there are also no other realistic alternative solutions for the future. Many members of the Railway Agency ended up in the Bondevik II Board competition. Everyone was added to the final package in the spring of 2005. 130 million. kr, which could have been used for upgrading, was instead used to send highly competent people to the door. The railway works still wear with the aftereffects. I'm glad that there are multiples in this room to focus on upgrading the railway network in the future rather than now spending time on the reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1303	I record that the Council of State believes that ‘project financing’ is a honorary word and clearly nothing more. I record that it is one of her own government colleagues who have been most diligent in using project funding as a way of financing both road and rail projects. What I want to challenge the Council of State is: What is the basis of the Council of State to disagree with Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, who wants both project finance and to share the Railway Agency with two companies? So it might be interesting to know why the Minister of Transport does not want the Minister of Finance to get through to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1310	Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen has done well to ensure that the article that later has a great deal of attention is written in his time as County. He has also made note that the most important thing for him is to stress that there is a total framework for investment that determines how much can be done with rail and road development. I really agree with that. It's actually so that this government has gone beyond double the budget for the railway. We have triple investment so far. We have set an ambitious plan for the next ten years. Then I thought that it would now be a derailment to focus on how to reorganize in the future. Now, we need to refurbish the network and build new tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1315	The new management at the Railway Agency said not long ago that you had enough money and that you could do the job. And today we actually have the opposite idea. We have the impression that you have too little money, and that you need help from the outside. Does the State Council believe that the Railway Agency appears to be an offensive, powerful organisation and a delivery-oriented organisation? Does the State Council consider that the Railway Agency does not need organisational renewal? And does the Council of State think that the Railway Agency does not need new financing tools to build more railways faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1320	The railway company has said that this year they have enough money for the upgrading work that is going on in the Oslo area. That's the 470 million. kr, which is allowed to be used. And luckily, they've got a lot of funds, or else. Upgrading is going on in other places in this country. I think they could have spent more money. I'm glad this is an ambitious national transport plan. But what the railway works are struggling with is special competence. There was also something that the Bondevik II government itself reported to Stortingen after they had changed their mind, for example. to Baneservice. They were looking at the technical field. It was not as easy to put off as they believed. In the Railway Station they now beam both in the North and otherwise according to the competence to secure e.g.: The signalling system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1325	When I hear from the Council of State, I must say that I am still calling for the overall political leadership and what the Government wants with the Norwegian railway. In the evening post today we can read that the Director of the Railway Agency is asking for private solutions, outside help, more expertise and more money. Then the government is 2 to 3 billion kroner according to the national transport plan, which in a way is what the Council of State is constantly holding up in front of the Norwegian people, and which will not give more signalling facilities or better trains in 30 years. There are significant challenges. The Minister of Finance has said that the rule of action should now apply. It means less money. Is it the case that the Council of State cannot imagine any new solutions, new organizations and other instruments, but simply confirms that the ‘Princess will not’ still live in Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1334	I take the responsibility of a Minister for Transport. In cooperation with the NSB and the Railway Agency, we have put in place a number of short-term measures in the very demanding situation that has been in winter. There are several planes in the more medium term, including new double tracks, and one has in the long term additional planes both within the intercity triangle and otherwise, as well as a high-speed rail billing. But I have to say that I thought that the Right would soon take on the responsibility that they themselves have for sending on the door high competence from the Railway Agency. It actually happened in 2005. It wears the Railway Station with yet another one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1340	I want to challenge the state councils in two areas. It is clear that the Council of State does not want any restructuring of the Railway Agency. But is the Council willing to go in and see how we can improve incentive systems between the NSB and the Railway Agency? Then I think about what we have on the freight side, that one pays something for the use of the network. It will provide a clear structure for the Railway Agency and will not require any reorganisation. It could be a first step on the road towards a better railway. My second question to the Council of State relates to the national transport plan. We have now set behind us a winter that the Council of State itself has described as a crisis. Is the national transport plan going to resolve the situation we have in the central east?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1349	Until the last one: At the turn of the year 2012–2013 there has to be a significant improvement in the Austland area. Then today's Oslo Tunnel is upgraded, then there may be five more trains per hour. But there will still be challenges in the railway field before the intercity triangle and beyond in relation to the ambitions that are now in order to ensure that far, far more than today is in use by rail. So to this with incentive systems. In fact, I thought that the most important thing now is to let today's railway works work work and get more competence in place. I have noticed the tribute here in relation to Mesta and other reorganisations: Go to the control committee and look at the case that lies there – not all reorganisations have given equal benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1356	There has been a lot of talk about money use here today. Special representative Gorm Kjernli boasted of the amount of money spent, and the Council of State was also involved. On the same line as several here I was a little confused by what was in the evening post today; a while ago you had enough money, and then suddenly you have too little money. But my specific question is: is it possible to carry out the renewal in the Oslo area through the availability of capacity in the European market?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1361	I understand that it is possible to let go of the insurrection that the government party is satisfied with greater investment on the railways, when one himself represented a government that in its last year's budget had DKK 1.3 billion for investment, and we have now gone up significantly. So I also understand that it's possible to be confused by the railway manager. I can see her quite clearly so that she has the resources she needs this year. She may spend more money, and I would like to be busy for the Railway Agency to have additional funds. When we ask her if she can support the work now in the short term in the Oslo project, she thinks, as I understand her, that she has to stick to the resources that are now in place, the plans that are in place, to exploit the possibilities, we have to say to the crew that she has to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1368	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1373	Even though today's railway is at times stationary, the world is still a little ahead. A few years ago, the Stortinget examined the proposal promoted by the Progress Party on the reorganisation of the Railway Agency. We asked the government to reorganise the Railway Agency to state companies or public limited liability companies, and we asked the government to assume that the company will receive long-term loans at a low interest rate for its projects, and that interest and deductions will be covered by the annual government budgets. At that time neither the Right Party nor the Left Party supported the proposal. Today, there is broad consensus on the non-socialist side on precisely such solutions. That's good. It is not good that the government parties now reject the proposals to explore the model of government loan scheme for transport purposes, and it is not good to also reject the call and request to return to Stortinget with a plan to finance new, larger investment projects in order to ensure the rational and coherent development of projects. In the past, at least the Workers' Party has shown both faith and hope linked to the use of project investment. This is bad news for everyone using trains - everyone who can use trains and wants to use trains. It is bad news for Rail-Norway that the government parties have doubts about old-fashioned, completely inadequate and unnecessary financial arrangements in which large social investments such as rail are financed on the basis of just the cash principle. There's going to be a crisis in the railway sector for a long time. It does not help to buy new trains when new trains cannot run fast on old rails, on a lot of one-track rail and with a signal system that does not give a signal. It must also be reorganized, but above all it must be refinanced. No one builds houses in Norway as we build roads and railways. It has to be new. Regrettably, this government is blatantly clear that you won't. The progress party has previously expressed its warm agreement with thoughts expressed by Sigbjørn Johnsen as a county councillor. There are good thoughts that still stand. It's obvious that Sigbjørn Johnsen can't think so freely the good thoughts after he's moved into a department. It is regrettable for the railway, and that means that the necessary renewal of the railway will be postponed, perhaps until 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1382	This winter has had many cold and challenging days in many ways, not least for the country's train commuters and employees in the NSB and the Railway Agency. The railway station is in arrears in maintenance, with a worn-out train network. Then I could also have drawn a historical look back and given many explanations as to why things have become like they have, but I'm going to leave it. I just notice that the investments to the railway have tripled in four years, and that the situation would have been even worse if we had continued on the track that we were in with the Bondevik government at the wheel. Then to today's text and disagreements in the Committee: the question of how to organise the Railway Agency. That the Progress Party and the Right believe that the solution to most of society is freedom through competition and AS-certifications is nothing new, it's probably as ideological as a practical question. But the fact that the Christian People's Party is part of this team surprises me a little. When this case was dealt with a few years ago in Stortinget, Jan Sahl argued well to maintain the Railway Agency in the administration. But I guess there's new ideas going on in that party. It is good in many ways, but here I believe that a reverse operation is not positive for the matter we now have to deal with. I could have said a lot about entrusting the administration of the public sector to economic measurement parameters and about the great belief that corporate economic principles operate better, more efficiently and more efficiently than the administration does. Because if you convert governments into an AS, whether it's a state-owned AS or an enterprise, it has some consequences. A reorganisation requires much of an enterprise. I have just mentioned something, but it is also demanding for management and employees. There are many processes to walk through. They have to deal with a new employer counterpart, they have to enter a new tariff area, and many new agreements have to be negotiated. The reorganisation also requires a significant amount of conversion funds. In today's situation, this is not the way to spend the money. I remember that the separation of Baneservice AS from the NSB cost 80.6 million. kr in 2005-krona. All experience shows that reorganisation is a cause of concern to the organisation. No matter if you were to reorganize, the time is wrong. Now we have to keep a full focus on the matter: getting a modern and good railway. The railway works now need rest to work with the most important thing: full attention to the passengers, so that we have a good train offer, the most punctual and comfortable trains possible, and the upgrading of the railway in both the short and long term. This makes the Railway Agency the best possible by being in the administration. It must be the product they deliver, which is the important thing, and not the commercial activity where the main objective is to make profits. Finally, a little visit to the representative Schou, who makes the separation of Mesta as a sunshine story, where everything works well. I guess it's mildly said to take in. I just refer to the Riksrevision's last report and the hearing that was in this house on that matter on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1397	With reference to the representative Tende, who obviously follows closely the national meetings of the Workers' Party – I think it is good, because many important decisions are taken – I can therefore confess that the person who promoted the bench proposal she referred to was signed. And I can assure the representative Tende that there is nothing in the proposal, which was about project financing, that requires a new and different form of organisation in the Railway Agency. That is what this matter is about. So now the bourgeois parties are still painting their so-called New Public Management concept. Not only did they move aviation out of the transport policy during their period of government and took the walk from Vegvesenet, but now they are also at the railway station, for the second time, in a sort of blind belief that the creation of two limited liability companies with your outsourcing will make life easier for all of us – after a winter that has fully demonstrated the consequences of the powdering of responsibilities that lie in the fact that the train operation is separated from the driving path. So now they want to take further steps in the same direction, knowing that the form of a limited liability company in itself reduces our political governance. They probably think that the separation of the Road Administration’s production activities in 100 p.m. stateside Mesta has been so successful that they will now do the same with the railway works’ production activities. However, pending a proper evaluation, I believe that this operation has led to a large-scale privatisation of state jobs, a much more expensive and poorer road maintenance, less competition in the market and a significant bidding and supervisory bureaucracy. Of course, the manufacturing competence of the road industry has deteriorated, and the significant R & D effort that in time led to Norway becoming world leader in tunnel technology has been reduced to almost a zero point. We'll get less for the money, no more, as the representative Schou later to believe. Like the former councillor, Navarsete, I want to invite the representative, Mr. Schou, to the search for the billion she thinks has benefited. It's not easy to change what's once been done, but I find that it can be time to do it faster than many others. I am in favour of structural changes in the transport sector. But they are not made through ad hoc decisions in the Stortinget. On the other hand, we can be willing and interested in making these structural changes in the context of the debate that will lead to the revision of the NTP in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1408	It is good to hear that the Council of State has good thoughts about Norwegian railway in the future. We all have. But there's probably some kind of disagreement about how we can solve the problems that exist today. Now it's the way that the Right wants to be accused of wanting the privatization of the most. I would like to point out that this proposal is not part of such a strategy, it is part of an attempt to find a better solution for the railway in the future. It is now – as was also referred to earlier here today – that the Minister of Finance has stated that the use of funds will be very strict in the years to come, and the Council of State says that she sees it as problematic that we should, in a single collapse, grant large loans for the development of the railways in order for the next collapse, or subsequently, to pay that loan. If we have then locked that road, while we lock the way to make it into a share company, so that they can take up loans themselves, then we are back to a normal annual financing like today. Then I'm afraid it'll take both 20 and 30 years before we get a proper order of train traffic, especially in the Oslo area. And if we talk about trains at a slightly higher speed to the big cities, then in an analysis here the other day, it will take 90 years with the kind of investment we have today. We're hardly very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1417	I thought it was very interesting to listen to the Left and Right when they told us how successful it was with the Road Service, when Mesta showed up and a split-up and new contract types and stuff. I thought it was very exciting – because it is quite wrong. I'm also on the Control and Constitutional Committee. What turns out when Right says that we've turned a billion on it, it's more likely that we've lost billions on these experiments that the right-hand side is floating on. Maintenance costs in the last two years have increased by over 40 p.p. – by no means a decline, but an increase, in this efficient, modern system to the right. And we're going to do more of this! What's going to be expensive, ineffective, we're going to do even more of that. We can do what Margaret Thatcher did, can't we? That's the favourite of the Progress Party. We just privatize everything we can out of the railway -- split it up as much as possible, and it'll work out, and it'll be effective. Yes, because that's what they say. That's what they recommend to us now: split up more! But why didn't they see what happened in England? Why didn't they see that it went completely 'in the rough' – that it is actually that it became more expensive, the state had to go in? All in all, the whole thing was re-socialized. So we're not going to learn anything from it! This is how the fragmentation we have had leads to those who are split up – the NSB and the RU – arguing about who is responsible. They shall have, it leads to the fragmentation – mass use of time to explain who is responsible. That's no more of what we need, people, if we're going to get the railroad properly on track! We actually have to use what we have, and get better what we have. And maybe, as Gullvåg says, we should look at some structural grips anyway. But what they are -- it might as well be that we're going to put things together like we're going to split it up more to make it more effective. It looks like it's the other one well. I am very pleased that we have now got a new railway director, and I am very impressed by the way this railway director – she is after all very fresh – has managed a difficult crisis so far. We are now modernising the Railway Agency – the railway director in cooperation with our distinguished Minister of Transport. So I think – and there I'm going to give Hareide and others a little straight – that we're going to have to pay more money to the railway. Hareide has proposed 10 billion kroner – that's the same as the national meeting in SV has agreed – so you're on the right track, Knut Arild!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1426	The President understands the involvement of the representative, Mr Langeland, but would nevertheless remind him that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1430	It has been interesting to sit and listen to a debate that has changed from the starting point, which was the modernisation and restructuring of the Railway Agency, to a debate on how to finance the development of the railway, and who is in favour of or against project funding. The Government and the Central Party are betting – and will bet – on the railway, on maintenance, on construction, on renewing old and new sections of the railway. In my view, it must be a much stronger priority than the organisational form right now. Railways face major challenges, including: there is a need to improve punctuality and regularity of train services. It's enough just to look at the last season to see the need there. The railway works hard to get qualified personnel. I can't help but understand that there has to be a paradox for some of the parties here to see that the Railway Agency has challenges to get access to personnel – for some of the staff offered final packages in 2005. This proposal for a representative implies a large-scale outsourcing of competition, while at the same time the railway works will have to undergo extensive reorganisation. I am unable with my best will to see that this is the right time to throw the Railway Agency into such a process. No experiments now! It's not to stand on the side of commuters, nor on the side of the railway. That is why the Central Party rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1441	I record that Tone Merete Sønsterud is disappointed with the Christian People's Party, and then she is much more disappointed with the party colleague Sigbjørn Johnsen, who does well to go beyond what the Christian People's Party does. I want to explain what lies behind the Christian People's Party's proposal: it's that we want to support railway investments because we have such a huge aftermath, and I believe that a renewal within this sector is important. We're looking at it in other fields. I also want to say that Jan Sahl has been a driving force in this process in the Christian People's Party. He has said exactly what I am saying today, because we want it, and because we see that we have such great challenges in the railway sector. We don't have a lot of time. There is a system that has lost its trust, so we need to ensure that it is renewed. But it's true, as Arne Sortevik said, we didn't go for the proposals of the Progress Party. The reason is that the proposal of the Progress Party stated that it should be 100 pst. State-funded loans. That's not what the Christian People's Party wants. I also interpret it so that both the Right and the Left stand behind the Christian People's Party in that thinking – this is because we want to have private initiative and get a renewal that we think is absolutely necessary. I listened especially to Steinar Gullvåg's post, and I thought it was exciting. It was a thought of a renewal. He said he didn't want to take the concrete suggestions here in this room, and I can understand that. That's what's behind my challenge -- I see the Council of State will have the floor in a few minutes. What I want to challenge is -- I'm not talking about a reorganization right now, but what I'm talking about is: is there a need in that dialogue, that cooperation, that is between the Railway Agency and the NSB, is there a funding system that makes the NSB pay for the services they get, and let go of paying when they don't get them? I think it's going to be about creating a dynamic and making it clear to everyone – there are big organizations that need a clear incentive structure. A case of state control. I want to refer to the system you've got on the airside, which has given a significant effect. We must give tribute to Avinor for the considerable improvements we have seen. the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1452	This debate underlines with all clarity that the total volume is clear for, mature for a major debate on what we want with the Norwegian railway. But first of all, it's okay to ask what the government actually wants with the Norwegian railway. I listen to the debate on Mesta, that there has been no successful conversion, and that there have been many pitfalls there. Now it is true that it is quite right that in the context of this separation — and the road director has said so in a recent hearing — road maintenance has improved, costs have become more manageable, and more has been achieved in such a type of competition. So a little bit back to the railway station. It is important to look forward, and I listen to many of the posts in the hall that there are amazingly many from the government side who are most concerned about looking back – look at who said what, and who didn't do what before – and that's why we're so wrong out now. Employees of the Railway Agency have been very clear that they may not actually work smart enough to meet that challenge, the reorganisation that has taken place in the past, and that reorganization is worth meeting. The change that happened, the restructuring of the Railway Agency that took place in 2005, actually directed the Railway Agency itself. They were the ones who were in charge of the change process. What the government did at the time, Bondevik II, was to define conversion and also to introduce competition in part of the sector. What the railway company said was that they actually looked very positive at it, that they were working better, and that they wanted to welcome the change. The criticism of the government was that maybe we didn't go far enough that time. We see with all clarity, also in the notice in the evening post today, that the Railway Agency is asking for help from the outside and a privatisation, help from the private sector. So it's okay to point out a little bit what Sweden has done. The results in our neighbouring country show that Sweden is twice as effective in this area, and that Norway is the second worst in terms of regularity on the railways. So the Council of State did not respond to what is already there in relation to the national transport plan – what is being pushed out on time, between 2 and 3 billion kroner. There is a need for clear development plans, but not just that. There is also a need for deadlines. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1469	Let me say to Ingerd Schou, first of all, that it was a warning when the national transport plan was presented, that there was going to be an escalation. That's what the government is working for. So I want to comment on a few other points in the debate. I want the Stortinget to also agree that when Bondevik II converted BaneService, separated it from the Railway Agency and transformed it into a stand-alone company in 2005, it added up to a gradual increase in the competitive deployment of parts of operation and maintenance, with different stages up to 2009. However, in the context of the 2006 state budget, the government reported that it would be very demanding to conduct good competition and negotiate good contracts because, before parts of the railway sector, there was no good functioning market – as they said – and that it was particularly true in the railway technical area. Then to the Oslo Tunnel. I've had the privilege of having been inside the Oslo tunnel. I have seen people working there at night, and I have also seen what is being distributed today in the evening post, that it is only the ongoing maintenance that the Railway Agency stands for itself. So they hire a lot of other companies. I have met these work laws. So it's not that all the work is done by the Railway Agency itself. Then I also want it to remain after this debate that it happens the much positive – we don't have to forget that. So there are 13 construction projects in the Railway Station for the time being. There are planning, design and land use of nine projects. There are 31 larger measures to increase capacity, and there are activities at 26 stations and hubs to improve them. So the question is, is it that everything is locked when it applies to the future? Having Oslo-Ski at its own government budget post is an example of changing thinking over time. And what's the point of having Oslo-Ski on your own? It's following the progress, making progress. In large new plants, for example, it is very crucial, even for costs, that there is a coherent development. To the challenge of Hareide, which has also been raised by Gullvåg: in relation to the roll-out of the transport plan, it is clear that we can discuss whether things should be organised differently. But I think it was totally wrong to move the focus today from the work that the Railway Agency is about to do with today's organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1484	I understand that we may have received a new parliamentary expression in this House, because I note that the president did not club when the representative of Langeland used the word'refra'. I do not think it is a parliamentary expression of the politics of others, at least not from this pulpit. But what's special here is that the representative Langeland is fanatical about everything initially going to be state activity. We know that SV is a party that wants it very much, but this case is not about everything being private or not. This is about an administrative organisation that is currently directly run by the Council of State, as an administrative body. It's actually about whether we're going to make sure to do this to a company where the state is still going to have full control, or a state enterprise. The point, and what we are concerned about, is that we need to make use of the new opportunities that lie there for the company to be allowed to borrow, for example. in order to launch important projects earlier than can be done with today's way of financing. I record that the Council of State would not respond properly to my question. There were a lot of words and little concrete about what was the difference between Sigbjørn Johnsen's wishes for project finance and her, and why the Council of State did not agree with Sigbjørn Johnsen that these are good tools to get a foraging in the development of important railway projects. That's the big challenge. I agree – and I also believe – that it is not about the short-term measures and the short-term solutions that we need to find, but it is about how we are going to organise this for the future, about how we are going to ensure that we are built out much faster than we are doing at the pace we have today. Of course, it's about political will, but it's also about giving state enterprises the opportunity to borrow. That's what this discussion is all about, and that's what we think makes sense. But to Langeland, who is so concerned about not having competition: on the Gjøvik track, which is exposed to competition, you can have the same price as you had before, and you get 40 pst. more offers to customers. It's a company that works. The managing director said, when the committee was on its way in the last period, that this would never happen if it was part of the NSB, but it goes because you're another company, a smaller company where it's a short distance from the outside and meets the customers every single day, and all the way up to the management of the company. Therefore, you can be much better and give a much better offer to your customers. That's what competition is all about. This case is not about what Langeland is concerned about, where he refers to England and all sorts of strange things. What this is about is that we want to do this again so that we can get a better rail offer to all of the customers, commuters and others, who depend on a real, good rail offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1497	The President understands that she has neglected in terms of unparliamentary expressions. The President was concerned with a few other aspects of the statements of the representative, Langeland, which she corrected. Maybe it'll be a little bit at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1500	I can promise the president won't let me go. The Minister of Transport's rejection of new financial tools for the railways is hardly new. That's dramaticly bad news for the railway. Not even organisational renewal is open to the Government and to the Minister of Transport. It's bad news for the railway, it's bad news for the NSB, and it's bad news for the passengers. At all, there is a poor agreement between the claims of the Government about a stake on the railway and more of an old-fashioned policy that has a bad effect. This is actually the first intervention Stortinget has with the last railway crisis. Behind that crisis are three crisis meetings with the former Minister of Transport and at least one crisis meeting with the current Minister of Transport. The Council of State has refused to come to Stortinget and inform about that crisis. The next intervention that Stortinget then gets with the situation on today's railway will be through an inter-pelling debate that the Progress Party has taken the initiative on. The government has a retrospective. We need to look at appropriations and funding tools in relation to the need. The Railway Agency announced in its contribution to the National Transport Plan, which we have the first year of this year, and which is under-filled by the Government, a need of NOK 100 billion. Today's railway policy is slow. The comfort must be that it can be much faster from 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1511	There's a little bit of catapult about this debate, where representatives from the Right and the Christian People's Party come and repeat the argument and don't hear what's being said. So I said, don't throw the baby out with the bath water. This means: Do not destroy the Railway Agency to provide long-term funding for major railway projects. Now it has been said clearly from SV here and from the Workers' Party that we want a system of long-term financing of the major railway projects in the East. Now I think I heard – and it was very happy – that the Minister for Transport went a long way towards saying that the solution can be in something like that. Then Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Advance Party, launches privatisation as a solution. It's a high price to risk. We lose competence, which I've been in for, plus that the conversion in itself – and everyone who's been away in conversions – has a start-up cost. So the question is, is it the right time to do it now? You can do that if you have an organization that doesn't work at all. My assessment of the railway works now is that this is not the case in the railway works. We are at risk, with the proposals that have been put forward, to paralyze the Railway Agency for a few years. Do I understand it right when the Christian People's Party's proposal, which is to make it more efficient, is to impose a road tax? In my opinion, it only shows the impotence of the Christian People's Party's railway policy. Ingerd Schou reads the Evening Post and the statements of the railway manager quite differently from what I did today. The railway manager does not request any fragmentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1524	I haven't been on the Stortinget for a long time, but I've been in Trondheim City Board for four years. There we did the ball to re-communalize some services, which the bourgeois majority privatised and put off tendering in the years before the red-greens took over. What we often heard then from the bourgeois opposition was that the red-green majority put ideology ahead of reason, that ideology was the most important and not the good solutions. We can ask questions about that. I think it's the other way around. A review e.g. the outsourcing of the tasks of the State Road Service shows that the cost increase of 50 pst. above what has been the growth of prices elsewhere in the construction industry. There has been no gain with that market outsourcing. It is not that citizens can demonstrate that competitive outsourcing and privatisation provide more efficient public tasks. So this debate has shown one positive development, I think, and that is the newly won love that the bourgeois parties refer to the train. It is a love that cannot be said to have been present as much as the bourgeois themselves had a majority in the Storting, when they themselves ruled the country and the representative Hareide was the Council of State. But of course, it is very positive that the citizens now believe that the huge increase in red-greens has been in investments on the railway side is not enough. There's a rather different attitude on the part of the bourgeois than what they themselves had the chance to demonstrate in their four years of government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1531	The next speaker is Knut Arild Hareide, Chairman of the Committee. Mr Hareide is also the rapporteur-in-Office, and thus has three minutes of speaking time, even if he is given the floor for the third time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1534	I'm not a case spokesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1540	Then the president is afraid that Hareide will only get one minute – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1543	Thank you, Mr. President. I only need one minute. I just want to record one thing. The representative Lars Egeland says that the Christian People's Party is in favour of privatisation. I would ask the representative to read the proposal from the Christian People's Party. Here's what it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Railway Agency into State undertakings’. It could be impossible to privatize. That's just the difference between the proposals of the Christian People's Party and those of the Advance Party and the Right. That's the possibility that exists. But I want to say to SV, who is happy about what's government and public: we're forced to also have a critical look at those institutions to get a renewal. That is what the Christian People's Party says in its proposal. We are busy just to make sure that we get a renewal, in order to ensure that the commuter conditions are better. That's our intention, and that's what we'll be trusted in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1555	It was the representative Arne Sortevik who makes me take the floor, because what he says is an example of a claim not becoming any more true because he is repeated several times. I have written to the Progress Party and to the Right that I would like to put in the Stortinget to do the right thing for the situation when it applies to trains and railways. Variety says that I have rejected it. That's wrong. So he says that this is the first chance to discuss the crisis when it concerns the railway. I note that Hoksrud gave the basis for this proposal, which is now being debated, with a longer-term reorganization. Maybe they should take a little internal round. For my part, I followed closely the train situation in November. Then the train was punctual with up to 90 pst. That's the goal of punctuality. Then came December, which was very demanding. Coldness strengthens the situation. 7 January was my first day of the new year at work in the department. Therefore, it was natural on my first day to invite the NSB and the Railway Agency to discuss what could be done in the short term. And then I'm going to say, well, I'm going to share the joy that many people now have. The fact that there is a greater emphasis on rail and train provision promises good for the future. So I thought that at this time both the NSB and the Railway Agency should come up with some good words about how they deal with a very demanding situation. I think the best thing we can do now to the Railway Agency is to focus on giving them the opportunity to do the most necessary work they need to do now for more trains to be on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1564	Mr Schou has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1567	I would like to say to the Council of State that I am very pleased that she will meet in Stortinget, so we will have a broad explanation and debate about what we want with the railways in Norway. Then I also hope that we can discuss what I have heard from the Council of State say, that she does not want the help of the Food and Drug Administration, which has submitted a report that one can cut the planning time for the distance between Oslo and Ski by three years. We also have a renewed debate about not modernising the Railway Agency, so that we can build faster and faster and continuously. To Serigstad Valen – who is concerned about looking back, despite her young age: It is true that we are many who have love for the train, but it requires that the train goes, and that you do not lose confidence, as you do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1574	The representative Arne Sortevik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1577	That note is short – the previous entry can be accepted. It is important for the Storting to have many debates on the situation in today's railway, where the problems are great. We will then have several occasions, and one of those occasions will be a reported interpellation debate from the Progress Party. The proposal we have talked about here today concerns modernisation and new structure. It has also given us the opportunity to talk about new financing tools, which are necessary to speed up the railway, and it comes in time for us to also get the difficult situation that the railway is in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1584	The next speaker is Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1587	I can assure you that I have not intended to use all the 3 minutes. I wonder that the representative Schou does not see a connection between his own performances, where the representative does not dare to take the train to work, and the period when the representative Schou himself was the Council of State in a government that in no way can it be said to have prioritised the railway, compared to what the red-greens have done. I can assure the representative Schou that it is nothing new, something modern or something innovative by selling public property in the dogmatic belief that it will lead to something more efficient or profitable. On the contrary, that proposal has an unmistakable smell of the 80s.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1594	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1771]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1612	On Wednesday 6 January, a new power consumption record was set in Norway, where one in 13 of 24 hours of the day had a consumption right than the previous record. Self Statnett then expressed wonder about the power demand in relation to the temperature. This happens despite the fact that the industry has reduced its activity, cf. financial crisis. Looking up the media, we also see that the warning lights flash for the power situation in Middle Norway. With an ongoing cold period as a back carpet, we see that force experts now announce a greater and greater probability of stream rationing. Power experts, including: The mountains of Energy warn against evolution and think that if this continues, it goes towards a spring pinch. This winter's situation with the current cold weather, low rainfall and high consumption leads to a power crisis for Middle Norway that many have feared. NVE submitted before weekend figures confirming the situation, and describing the magazine that is heavily debilitated, and the double risk of rationalization during the spring. In addition, Statnett now assesses the situation as serious as it actively goes out and invites the industry in the country to enter into voluntary rationalisation agreements. This is a situation against which the Progress Party has long warned – yes, in fact as far back as when one decided to build a land-based gas treatment facility in the Worm Lange field. It is regrettable that this particular facility, which is a national money machine and treasury, has become a financial waste for private and business life in the region due to the high energy demand. With electricity prices up to DKK 8 to 9/kWh, it is clear that the level threatens future jobs and permits current jobs, especially before industry. Let me just make a statement right away: for the industrial community of More and Romsdal, this is totally unacceptable. I have to admit that I almost jumped into the chair recently as I read in the Business Today that the council was not particularly concerned about the situation as opposed to Statnett's Increase Lont. We've been able to read that Lont wants to know what led to the extremely high prices in a few hours and days, while he wants clarity as to why it has become so bad regularity on the Swedish nuclear power. The reason why the state council wasn't concerned was, after we understood, that the price jump lasted only a few short periods. Such an assessment of the responsible state council falls a lot heavily for the chest. But one conclusion can be drawn: we are heavily dependent on Swedish nuclear power generation, and when this production is reduced by an estimated 30 pst, the scarcity becomes apparent for periods, and the market raises the price to a level of, as we have seen, 8-9 kroner. For many, the issue of not having this area should be considered exceptional, to the extent that it qualifies for exceptional measures. I'll talk about Middle Norway as an area. Such measures may be the removal of the incineration levy, so that the incineration plants in the region can compete with Swedish combustion plants, thereby increasing the energy production of district heating. Furthermore, there could be measures such as the review and continuation of applications for an extension of power generation, such as those requested by Rauma Energia, not to mention all the small-scale projects waiting to be addressed. It's a matter of whether Enova's own resources could contribute. In this context, I recall that the Progress Party proposed 300 million. kr for such measures. This is how I can continue to describe measures that would contribute to an increase in power generation. I myself know well about the measures taken by Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal County Municipality through the Energy Region Møre project, and as an example of the width within an area they are working on, can be seen as the competence centre for renewable energy in Smøla, where a focus on wind energy, Tingvoll with solar and bioenergy, and last but not least the Round Environmental Centre for Marine Energy – plus a range of other measures and programmes that fuel attention and help to realize. Even an additional measure on barley, and many of them are publicly owned, has a significant potential. The room for possibility is large if you only want to use it. However, the most immediate effect would be the start-up of the mobile gas power plants if the electricity price resulted in an unwanted cut in activity threatening current and future industrial jobs. This would in turn require the Government to reconsider the framework conditions for the named gas power plants so that they can contribute to industrial activity in the future. We've seen examples and we know that there are companies that don't handle energy prices that we're witnessing at times. All of this is of course while we are waiting for a clarification on the construction of the line Fardal-Örskog, which appears to be far ahead. The government's work on this matter is not at all menacing, and appears to be helpless and actionable. The topic of current and power shortage was also discussed in the Nordic Council during the Copenhagen meeting on 26 and 27 January. During the presentation of the Nordic electricity market, it was found that the Nordic electricity exchange was less transparent and less open than the other European electricity exchanges. We can't accept this. The question is whether this is likely for Nordic consumers, who expect openness and transparency in line with good governance. The question is: will the Council of State also address this issue and contribute to an openness that removes the possibilities of a possible price manipulation today? As a member of the Nordic Council, I have also allowed myself to attribute to the other Nordic energy ministers, and ask for their contribution to Nord Pool's open-mindedness legislation. Another contribution would be to have a coordinated maintenance stop in the different Nordic countries, so that a drop-down in seasons that require large production would be possible. I have therefore in the same letter allowed myself to ask that this question be discussed and tried to resolve. For me and for many others, it is incomprehensible that it appears that Nordic energy cooperation lacks basic agreements that provide the necessary stability in delivery and that also contribute to an acceptable price level. The interpellation that I am presenting today is about the energy situation in Central Norway, but also about the Nordic energy situation, as they are closely colliding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1642	First of all, I have to say that I'm glad that the interpellant ended the article with the one last sentence that he did. If not, the post could bear the mark of being a little one-sided in relation to what is the real energy situation not only in central Norway but in the Nordic region. But I'll come back to that. The new year started with a blasting cold, while major parts of Swedish nuclear power production were out of operation. This led to unusually high power prices for a few hours throughout the Nordic region, with the exception of South Norway and Jutland. The Swedish nuclear power is now being phased in again, and it will hopefully lead to a substantial reduction in the likelihood of such Nordic price peaks as the representative Grimstad refers to. Norway is an integral part of the Nordic power system and the power market. Middle Norway is a deficit area. The area has had prices that have been around at the level of the rest of the Nordic region during the period described here. South Norway and Jutland, on the other hand, have distinguished themselves at prices due to restrictions on transmission capacity. So we've had a special situation in South Norway in this period. It has not been time to start the two back-up power plants in central Norway. Reserve power plants shall only be used in very demanding power situations, and Statnet shall use all other relevant means to deal with the situation prior to the possible putting into service of the reserve power plants. High power prices are not the criterion for commissioning, but high risk of streamlining. It's important for the people of Central Norway to know that the response aspect has first priority. There is no reason for people in central Norway to be concerned about the supply of electricity, as preparedness has been prioritised through this reserve capacity. I focus on the power situation in central Norway. The government has drawn up a broad strategy to improve the power situation in Central Norway. It has two main elements. The first main element is measures under the direction of Statnett. State networks have made major improvements to the transmission system in and into the region on the basis of the existing network development plans. I am a little surprised that the interpellant did not weight it more strongly in his post. Statnet has made extensive network investments in Central Norway, and has, among other things, built a new 420 kV line between Sunndalsøra and Fränna and Nyhamna. Statnet has further put into operation nine condenser batteries and two SVC installations to maintain the import capacity of the area. The construction of the transmission connection Nea-Järpströmmen has been completed. This link has significantly increased transmission capacity between Central Norway and Sweden. Network reinforcements have made it possible to import more power into central Norway and to provide better power flows in the region. It's been important in the situation that we've seen lately. Overall, over the last few years, Statnett has invested approximately DKK 5 billion in the region, including the costs of the spare power plants mentioned. In addition, the state network is planning additional investments for DKK 2.5 billion. So there's a lot happening online in the area. The main single measure in the government’s work in central Norway is to establish a new transmission link between Sogn and More. Statnett has received a concession from NVE, but the NVE's decision has been appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and the matter is being dealt with in the ministry. How the representative can make himself say that this matter bears witness to little willingness to progress or helplessness or what was the term here, is completely incomprehensible to me. The matter is very big, there are many municipalities involved, there is a lot of commitment locally around this connection. It should only be lacking if not all interested parties in this case are thoroughly informed of the appeals. So I want to say that it would have been wrong for me to do, was to do a treatment that was superficial, summarizing and too fast. We have to do the real job. The force line – if it is built – has to stand there for many, many decades. I totally disagree with the description of reality that the representative here comes with. The second main element of the Government's policy to improve the power situation in central Norway is the commitment to renewable energy and energy conversion. As part of this, the NVE, unlike what one could get the impression when one heard the interpellant, has strengthened its capacity for concessional treatment. It's doubled since 2005. The NVE prioritises issues in regions with a high power deficit, including: Middle Norway. NVE granted concessions to 44 MW of new hydropower production in Central Norway in 2009. It will provide an expected annual production of 137 GWh. Furthermore, the NVE has granted 108 MW district heating concessions in Central Norway. Enova has significant activity aimed at municipalities in central Norway. It includes both municipal energy planning and concrete projects. Almost all the municipalities in central Norway have developed energy and climate plans or have made decisions to do so. There is an important basis for identifying good projects for further work in central Norway. All actors in central Norway are invited to apply for grants and to realise concrete projects. In the period January-August 2009, Enova allocated EUR 162 million. kr for projects in central Norway. These projects will either generate new energy production or save energy consumption equivalent to almost 300 GWh. One of these projects is Elkem Thamshavn at Orkanger. In 2009, Enova committed 90 million. DKK in support of an energy recovery project with a cost framework totaling approximately half a billion kroner. In total, the result here is 180 GWh of recovered electricity. It's roughly equal to one-third Alta power plants. It is significant – it is significant – in relation to the energy balance in the region. A lot of district heating is being developed in central Norway. For example, 32 million was given. SEK in aid for district heating projects only in the municipality of Trondheim in 2009 until August. In that case, it will give a renewable heat production equivalent to 62 GWh. In 2010, we know that Enova has a frame equivalent to DKK 1.8 billion. It means a high level of activity also in the current year. The power situation in Central Norway illustrates that the establishment and expansion of large consumption units can also put pressure on the power system. That's where I agree with the interpellant. It is therefore necessary to assess whether large consumption units are to be established on a broad basis, where the ratio to the power system is included as part of the assessment basis. It was mentioned in Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009 on the Act amending the Energy Act. On the part of the Government, it will be a condition for electrification of new installations outside central Norway that the power situation in the region is considered satisfactory. This means that we have taken the consequences of a previously misguided policy in relation to not seeing the relationship between consumption and production and energy supply in an area. The size has decided to make changes to it, and that means we're going to avoid what we see now as a result of decisions taken a few years back in time. As of 1 January 2010, the Government introduced an obligation of connectivity for production and consumption. Network companies have the primary responsibility for network development and shall decide whether a link between consumption requires upgrades or investments in the network, which network solutions, if any, are to be explored. However, there is an exemption around it and it is clarified that connectivity must wait until it is operationally sound. Overall, efforts are being made to improve the power situation in Central Norway. Further measures for increased transmission capacity have been implemented and planned. Work on energy conversion and renewable production continues, and further efforts are being made to improve security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1674	The councils here describe several things that would contribute to increasing production in central Norway. Nevertheless, we can conclude that there is a great danger that there will be streamration to winter. Now, the government has been running for five years without any significant measures being taken. A number of measures were put forward, but all of these have something in common, they're very small. As far as I am aware, an action plan for Middle Norway was promised in 2005. The question is where to find him. We know that the challenges for Norwegian business are high – high cost, strong Norwegian currency and strong international competition. This means that the situation is not easy for business, especially in central Norway. We see that frustration causes even the South-Tronde Team’s executive from the Labour Party to ask that one go to the step of selling mobile gas plants to strengthen energy savings, an additional measure and an Enova measure in the region. It only shows the frustration level in the region. What the Council of State also points to is that the NVE has a double concessional capacity. That's good, but has it halved the trial period, which it might have done? The conclusion is that there is a great deal of frustration in Middle Norway, and the price level itself causes jobs to be affected. The situation has lasted so long that it appears to be a helpless and little forceful thing that the government is doing. One way of thinking about it is to just take over and accept that it looks like this from Middle Norway. So finally, a few words about the situation in Norpool. I didn't hear that the Council of State was in the middle of the whole problem, about an electricity exchange that should be open and transparent, so we're sure that things don't happen that are unmanageable and inappropriate, if we're going to use those words. Now we don't know if it happens today, but things suggest that he had been better, that exchange too, if he had been more transparent. Nor did I hear that the Council of State mention concrete measures to avoid stopping the large production units we have in the Nordic countries, such as the nuclear power plants in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1687	I'm a little surprised that the interpellant continues to express itself as if we have one place in the Nordic region that is now in a very special situation with regard to the power price. The last point could indicate that the representative is still involved in this debate. But that's not the situation. I'm here with the list of power prices for the last month ahead of me. It is mostly an anomaly of approx. 1,3 o'clock between Middle Norway and the rest of the north. Then it's absolutely correct that the deviation from South Norway is a completely different one. South Norway and Jutland have operated as special areas in the Nordic power market. So the discussion about the price in Mid-Norway is a Nordic discussion about total access to power up against consumption. Some of the reasons why that's just that we've done something, that the situation is not the same in Middle Norway today as it was a few years ago. Had we had the same situation, without an upgraded Nea-Järpstrom, without more capacitor batteries, without SVC facilities, we would most likely be talking today about a Middle Norway situation that was completely disconnected from the Nordic issue and the Nordic market. It would mean less possible imports into the area, greater risk of power shortages in the area, greater risk of even greater price differences between Middle Norway and South Norway. So we have to, when we're discussing this issue, take on board that we actually have – almost to say – a world changing here, by expanding our capacity, getting better flow and also getting a Nordic market that includes Middle Norway. But when that is said, I believe that we have different power prices in Norway, a sign that the system is not good enough. We have to get there that we have one common price of power across Norway. That means multiple lines, that means that we have better transfer capacity between parts of the country, and that we get a flow of power that doesn't have bottlenecks that contribute to the situation we now have. So it's like this is about concrete projects that you can't solve from one day to another. In this way, the Ørskog–Fardal line is and will be a key project in reducing price differences and getting to where we are going: one price of electricity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1698	We initially had a situation in central Norway. Combined with the explosion now in winter and Swedish nuclear power out of operation, we have had a very difficult situation for those living in central Norway – not least for industry, for the jobs in the forceful part of it. When we get reports that the temporary closure of the aluminiumworks on Sunndalsøra – which has not happened due to electricity prices, but because of the market situation for aluminium – has contributed to the fact that we do not have an even more serious situation and have to take even more drastic action, it is, of course, serious. Then I think it's worth remembering that the previous bourgeois government didn't do anything despite very strong warnings from, among other things. Statnett. In April 2006, there was a very interesting article in the Monday morning weekly magazine that revealed that the Bondevik II government, supported by the Progress Party, had ignored the warnings from its own universities related to the energy situation in Central Norway. Despite repeated warnings, nothing has been done since 2000. There was no word to read about the situation in the Energy Communication presented by that government in December 2003. I do not know what was the reason for this – that you had not received the warnings, or that it was a belief that the market would sort this out – but in any case this is serious. If you want to look at it even more historically, you can go back to the early 1990s, when the new Energy Act was adopted and dealt with. The minority at that time, consisting of the Workers' Party and SV, warned of the adverse effects of the law, relating to energy savings and the exploitation of individual power plants, and promoted concrete proposals, which were voted down by the market liberal parties on the right. It's kind of strange that, from the time Right Widvey cleared his office in the Ministry of Energy, to the same party started asking questions about the power situation in Middle Norway, there was almost no time. So you went from total paralysis to chronic impatience almost at record speed. What happened there reminds me of having one policy for position and one for opposition. Work on improving the power situation in Central Norway has been a high priority. In December 2006, an interim action plan was launched. A great deal has been done under the direction of Statnett and Enova. Governments have spent a lot of time explaining well what has been done since then, so I'm not going to spend a lot of time going into it, but it's worth mentioning that now in the last few years you've spent 5 billion kroner on investments in Middle Norway and planning for another 2.5 billion kroner. Strengthening the processing capacity of the NVE is almost difficult to exaggerate the importance of, because the effects of all the other measures we are taking are gone if everything stops in a queue in the NVE. So this is incredibly important. There has been a significant activity targeting the municipalities in Central Norway, from Enova’s side. They have been clearly informed that Mid-Norway is a priority. The Energy Fund has been strengthened by DKK 1.19 billion in the package of measures that came last winter, and Enova is allocated DKK 1.8 billion in 2010. And then, despite being controversial, despite the fact that it's expensive, we've got the mobile gas plants in place. Hopefully we won't need them, but they'll be there, purely security of supply. As long as the lines are not down, as long as it's not wrong, Mid-Norway is an integral part of the Nordic power market. It's not that when we saw the highest power prices, when we talked about several dollars, it was a strange, midnorse situation. We also saw the same prices in Sweden, Finland and Zealand. The most important thing we can do to stabilize the situation in Central Norway is put in place the line Ørskog-Fardal. It's been approved by NVE, it's located in the department. There have been unusually many complaints relating to this case. They have to be treated properly, but we have a lot of pressure on this. This is incredibly important for us to be given priority, because Statnett himself says that the situation for Middle Norway will be normalized when the line is in place. So I just have to say in the end that I get a little provoked when it's presented as that we disagree on the reality description, that we don't realize the seriousness of the situation. What is the difference between this government and the one that was set up until 2005 is that we have launched a whole range of measures. We are not blindly proud that the market is going to solve this situation. We've actually taken it seriously and started the measures that are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1721	Well, that's actually a difference in reality. When the councils and other red-green politicians talk about this, they all of a sudden just focus on the fact that the power price now doesn't vary – it's a few ears. One ignores the fact that the power price in central Norway over time has been up to 10 cents higher than elsewhere. We've had electricity prices of $8 and $11. It's a problem. It's a problem when the NVE now says it's 10 pst. risk of rations in central Norway. It is a problem when we go into 2010 with the lowest magazine filling in the region, according to an overview that the NVE has for the years 2002–2010. It is a problem when Statnet now enters into an agreement for closure because they fear rationalization. And it's a problem because this happens at the same time as the industry has reduced its production, among other things. on Sunndal. Ergo: It uses less energy in the industry than it would otherwise have done. The problem would be much bigger if this happened without the financial crisis. Unfortunately, the financial crisis has, or – we say – fortunately saved the situation, but it has also ‘saved’ the government from understanding the challenge. This has been a topic that has been discussed at Stortinget since the red-green government took over – yes, actually before that too. I'm not going to interfere in Marianne Marthinsen's comments to the Right, but they're completely irrelevant to the Advance Party. When the Worm Lange case was discussed at Stortinget, there were two parties who cared about the power situation in Middle Norway. It was SV, which concluded that the Worm Lange would result in increased power consumption and therefore would like to see a gas power plant – which is why they opposed the project – and it was the Progress Party, which thought that because the power consumption would rise, we also had to expand more power generation. But we were for the Worm Lange project. The working party – and this is a challenge for Marianne Marthinsen – did not say a word about the power situation, either in the hall or in the setting. Neither did the party to which the Council of State belongs, the Senterpartiet, and unfortunately not the Bondevik government. There is the problem in Norwegian policy: the power situation was not something you cared about, but everyone would take credit for industrial development. Then one gets the situation that is today. Continued to paralyze the Government of the same gas power struggle as the paralysed Bondevik government. Although gas power projects exist in central Norway, the government is unable to pursue a policy that triggers them. Industrial power Mid-Norway has, of its own interest, asked several times to build a gas power plant, because they are strongly connected to Hustadmarmor. They are granted a concession, but their emissions from the Ministry of the Environment are so unrealistic that one can only forget to build the gas power plant: there should be cleaning at start-up and they should not get a penny from the state. That's the same thing as saying that someone doesn't want the gas power plant. So the government has built two mobile gas plants. It's the only concrete result of red-green politics. The other thing that's referred to is things that the government would have done, regardless of government. And much of this was started during the Bondevik government, without the Bondevik government being responsible for it – or the honor. It is simply so that Statnett does his job. With regard to the mobile gas power plants, even red-green politicians say that with the legislation that the government has given, they will never be used – and then we can just as well sell them. This applies both to the representative Serigstad Valen at the back of the Chamber here and to the Workers' Party's County Rapporteur in the South Trøndelag. It's molar policy when one spends DKK 2.5 billion on a measure that you'll never use, and that's why you'll sell it. One should use this money to stimulate renewable energy, hydropower, wind power or energy saving. The government did not, although it was a theme for the Progress Party when it happened. Once the government has spent the money on mobile gas plants, they should be spent on it. So the government can say that this is a bigger problem than just in Central Norway. But when the electricity price becomes NOK 8, one should use all the generation capacity that is present. I am sure that when you have vertical supply and demand curves for electricity, 300 MW from mobile gas power plants will mean something for the electricity price, not only in central Norway, but throughout the Scandinavian area affected by this. The Progress Party has challenged the Government to drop a pot of money. 300 million. kr proposed in our package of measures to only take action in central Norway, to stimulate renewable projects based on so-called negative auctioning. The projects that need at least support were to be triggered first. Then we had an incredible number of projects in place, and I'm sure of that. This has not been done by the Government. The provision of general tools, the upgrading of NVE’s processing capacity, etc., is very good, but nothing is targeted at Middle Norway. That's where the problem lies. A lot has been done in the form of talk and very little in the form of concrete actions. When the Worm Lange's second round comes into place, with the need for power from the web, I think the problem will be even bigger. I am not reassured by the approach of the Council of State. He's too satisfied with some small things, instead of looking at the fundamental problem that's still at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1740	The President would point out that if the representative wishes to challenge Marianne Marthinsen, it must be done elsewhere than in the Chamber, as each representative has only one post in each interpellation. Furthermore, the President has doubts as to whether the word'molbo's policy' is parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1745	There is no doubt that the power situation in central Norway is still being perceived as being unreasonable by businesses as well as households in the country. It creates problems for the competitiveness of local business. The consequences of the power supply situation are very serious for both industry and households. Such a debate as we have here today, we have had many times in the past. But despite countless appeals, meetings and enquiries from LO, NHO and from various representatives with Document No. Eight proposals, interviews and questions don't look like the government is taking the situation up. The government has at all been very passive in meeting the challenging power situation in Central Norway, and that despite the fact that the supply situation in this region has been severe throughout the previous accumulation period, and still is. A power crisis may lead to the cessation of production at Hydro’s aluminiumworks on Sunndalsøra and at Hustadmarmor and even at the Worm Lange plant. The last one is very serious. This will depend on Norway's trust as a gas supplier to the rest of Europe. There will be no satisfactory security of supply in Middle Norway until the Ørskog-Fardal power line is in place. There are many of us who agree, and we look forward to that, but we have to do something in time to that. In any case, until then there will be a need to put in place measures to increase power generation, so that we avoid excessive electricity prices in this part of the country, and in the utmost consequence that mobile gas power plants need to be used to avoid a power crisis. I record that the Council of State says that there are not high prices that allow you to use the mobile gas power plants, but then I also record that it is quite fine that industrial workplaces are shut down, and that it is the government's misleading policy. Increased power generation may take place, inter alia: through increased exploitation of the hydropower potential in the region, both in the form of extensions or upgrading of existing hydropower generation. It's also important to bring with it. I have difficulty understanding this description of reality, and what reality the Council of State actually lives in. Because it's actually a completely different reality than the one we experience in Central Norway for every day. Yes, it's actually also a completely different reality than what his predecessors, in the same government and from the same party, lived in. I never thought I'd say from this pulpit that I miss a central party council, but I do. I can't say that Odd Roger Enoksen did so terribly much when it came to this situation, but he was at least responsive. Odd Roger Enoksen was a sympathetic government council that showed great understanding of the importance of the power situation for the country. Among other things, he spoke out. to the Address Paper in January 2006 that he recognised that the power situation in this region has been, and, as he said, is one of the biggest nightmares he worked with. Unfortunately, I cannot say that today's Minister of Energy shows the same understanding – on the contrary. I want to go so far as to say that the Minister of Energy's statements are quite so arrogant to a whole part of the country. I quote what the energy minister said from this pulpit a few days ago: ‘Otherwise, the situation is not that Central Norway is in a special situation compared to Norway for the rest.’ We have heard that again today. What is needed for the Government to take action to improve the situation or to compensate for the disadvantages experienced by mid-Norwegian power customers and our business life? Enoxene also welcomed an action plan to prevent the supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal back in 2006. He also said that he was working on an action plan and wanted to promote this for Stortinget during the autumn of 2006. However, the long-promised action plan was not presented throughout the previous enlargement period. It is therefore interesting to ask the question of when this action plan will be presented. The government has now spent over four years drawing up the action plan. I also heard the representative, Mr Marthinsen, say instead that an interim action plan was presented. We haven't seen anything about the concrete measures. Is it the case that four more years are needed, or is it the case that the Government actually has a real willingness to meet the Storting's opposition requirements for an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1776	The representative of Solvik-Olsen is fresh in his day-to-day formulations. He refers to the State Council of Solheim as a ‘pull eel’ in the debate on climate and was signed as a molbo policy. The great thing about the show and performance of the Progress Party is that they don't need the help of others to awaken the associations of that kind of Progress Party. I am so far the only one in the debate here today who pays my electricity bills in Central Norway. There is no doubt that the supply situation in Central Norway is demanding now. This is due to long-term neglect of networks in Norway, and other decisions that should perhaps not have been made at the time they were made, which the representative Marianne Marthinsen was also involved in. From the point of view of all the civil parties in general, and in particular of the Progress Party, it would be thought that the mobile gas power stations could be set in motion as soon as the politicians snap their fingers. They obviously don't know that. It's not the electricity price that's crucial here, but the risk of rationalization. The concession of the mobile gas power plants clearly states that the start-up can only be carried out under the specific permission of the NVE. I am amazed that the environmental parties Left and Christian People's Party in the Nord-Trøndelag ignore this, and without further ado require the launch of the highly polluting mobile gas power plants. One can also get the impression, when one listens to the citizens, that the government has done nothing to improve the power situation in my home region. That's not the case either. Then I just need to point out what the Council of State was making clear in its article. The question is also what we can do immediately. In this context, the County rapporteur of the South Trøndelag, Tore Sandvik, asked Enova to investigate what additional measures could be financed by the sale of mobile gas power plants. Interestingly, the Progress Party suddenly takes this play as an example of frustration in the region against its own government. The Progress Party has gone the long way in making fun of this proposal, which both I and the County rapporteur in the South-Tronde Team have put us behind. Being lectured by the Progress Party in how unrealistic and tenacious a proposal is is strange, all the time the Progress Party is the party that has proposed, without asking the people of Orkdal what they think, that a nuclear power plant should be built to improve the power situation in Middle Norway. I'm not sure what the inhabitants of my home country would think about getting a nuclear power plant in their garden. As the Council of State has pointed out, there has already been a major activity on Enova's part in Central Norway, which so far will provide new energy and energy saving equivalent to 295 GWh. It is an extension of such instruments, not nuclear power plants in Orkdal, which is the wisest strategy for the rapid improvement of the power situation in Central Norway. These are actions that will, in any case, have to take place to enable Norway to fulfil its vision of energy reduction and a better climate policy. Further strengthening of theincrease rate will have a very positive side effect, namely improving the power situation in central Norway. I'm going to give an example, which is meant as an illustration: a heat pump in each home in More and Romesdal would reduce the consumption of electricity from the households in the district by one fourth. It is particularly surprising to me how high the bourgeois parties are now shouting out about the alleged invulnerability of the red-green government – especially the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Let me remind you that SV was the only party that warned against this particular situation when the expansion of the Worm Lange was dealt with in the Stortinget in April 2004. The bourgeois parties that are now calling out bear a heavy responsibility here. I would quote former oil and energy minister Einar Steensnæs, who to day and time has stated the following: «It was such a thrill over the Worm Lange. Everyone was enthusiastic about such an important project, and it was a unanimous call to get the gas to More. No one ventured to propose postponing the Worm Lange project because of the power situation in More and Romesdal, although everyone knew there was a disturbing situation. First we had to secure this important project, and then we could solve the power situation." SV's warnings against the power crisis in Middle Norway were thus spoken for deaf ears. For this reason, today’s presentation of the case – where some politicians claim to the media that it is only by political decision that mobile gas power stations should be set in motion, contrary to current legislation – becomes a populist attempt to smooth out prejudice’s omissions from its own side. It is easy to be a follow-up clock, but even easier, as the Progress Party does, it is to play on people's fear of unmanageable power prices and to set up an artificial choice between 10 kilowatt-hour bills in the mailbox of the crowds on the one hand and unconstitutional start-up of 300 MW from mobile gas power stations as a salvatory solution on the other, as several bourgeois politicians have done lately. The power situation in mid-Norway and the sometimes very large hours of power prices, I think, are serious enough without having to resort to such populist rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1798	The power situation in Central Norway has been discussed many times earlier in this house, and is now on the agenda due to the situation we have had in winter with the severe cold and nuclear situation in Sweden, which has given particularly high power prices some hours not only in Middle Norway, but in the whole Nordic region with some exceptions. Governments have done well for the measures taken to improve this situation in the short and long term. It is clear that the commitment to renewable energy production through Enova is an example of such an action — an action that works. We also know, as you know, that the Middle Norway region has a particular focus on this work because the region is a vulnerable region with regard to power supply. Not least, new network connections are important in order to secure streaming into this region. The interpellant chose not to emphasize this very much in his article. It was somewhat surprising, but it's clear that being able to feed power from areas that have excess power, into areas that have little access, is crucial. We see this in Central Norway today, thanks to the fact that one of them has received a much-needed strengthening of the network situation between Central Norway and Sweden. In view of this, it is striking to see how one of the opposition party's major representatives can run election campaigns against Kraftlins in this area, and then representatives from the same party stand here in Stortinget and say that one looks forward to this capacity being put in place, and that it is important, as the representative of Hofstad Hellen said in his statement earlier. It's not in the pile. Kraftliner must be suspended, but the argument that the lot is leading in this hall must also apply when it relates to the situation that has arisen. I think it's very special to experience that one here chooses some states, as the Right has done in this case, where one is opposite this line, this supply, while one in the other states says that this we've been working for a long time, and that's important. It's very special. Then it is that the Progress Party points out that, with the exception of the mobile gas power plants, the Government has not taken action that had not been seen in the works anyway. I don't believe the Progress Party itself believes that once! The increased investment in renewable energy that has taken place under this government is lacking in Norwegian history. It has focused on renewable energy, on various forms of renewable energy. There is an increased focus on network input to ensure power across the country, and one has an increased focus on energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. If you're in doubt, you have to compare it with the governments we've had before, and then you have to compare the political priorities and the political results between governments. The situation in Central Norway is challenging. The government is working with short and long-term measures to remedy this situation, and the Council of State has done its job. I have a expectation that in the future, the opposition party standing here in the Chamber and asking for action without itself, in the case of Hofstad Greece, to make concrete proposals, will support the measures being taken, and not pursue electoral or political polemics against the same measures other places in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1816	The power situation in Central Norway is serious – it gets a lot of focus, it gets a lot of commitment to the debate, people are naturally concerned, and business is worried. The more important it is to base the discussion on correct information. Firstly, it is not that Mid Norway has a serious power situation, or a lack of power, from day to day of the year through, but the main problem is that we do not have enough safety margin to withstand a dry year. It applies until the Ørskog-Fardal power line is completed, at the earliest in 2013. It is also unacceptable to rely on highly polluting mobile back-up power plants for a possible dry year. Secondly, there is a widespread perception that central Norwegian electricity prices are far above what you pay elsewhere. Variations in area prices in the Nordic market sometimes result in higher prices in central Norway, sometimes also lower prices – but customers in central Norway have paid a little more over time. The situation in South Norway, with its tight force, has affected others, so I'm not going to get into it. Thirdly, it's a common myth that winter's extreme price peaks, up to $8 per. kilowatt-hour, it's a median phenomenon. So it is not, and the Council of State has so far explained it. I have no ambition to give a full picture of the situation here, but it is important to have a good analysis and understanding of the situation in order to provide the basis for effective action. And there are several important measures that should be implemented to ensure the power situation in Central Norway. Firstly, we must complete the Ørskog-Fardal power line as quickly as possible. Statnett now says it can be ready in 2013–2014, but there is some uncertainty here. When it is finished, Mid-Norway has a secure energy supply. It is, as it now appears, too late to develop new productions to solve the situation, as it is constantly being called for. The government could have contributed to it years ago, but it hasn't. Concessions granted in 2009, to which the Council of State refers, will not be in production until the Ørskog-Fardal power line is completed. In any case, new power generation is important in the longer term for Middle Norway and should be stimulated. Secondly, the Minister for Oil and Energy has to state that the area prices for Middle Norway will be eliminated if a dry year results in a shortage of power and a sharp jump in prices in the region. It would be totally unreasonable if we had a dry-year situation and a longer period of sky-high prices in central Norway alone, that Middle Norwegian customers would have to pay for the failure of energy policy. That would be unreasonable, and neither would people in central Norway, or elsewhere in the country, accept it. Thirdly, we need a new energy policy that takes over the lessons from Middle Norway. It should and should not be possible to re-occur that more consumption is planned for a region than the supply capacity suggests, without the introduction of measures to ensure supply as consumption grows. In the otherwise successful deregulation of the power sector 20 years ago, the authorities entrusted too much responsibility to the market, and the administration took a role in confidence that market mechanisms would ensure supply. We who ruled when the Worm Lange was adopted must take our share of responsibility for this. I recommend that humility. And – as you say in the TV action: I encourage everyone else to do the same. I think that all those who have run the country over several major periods and who have been responsible for energy policy should show a little more of the same humility. We've seen a little bit of that here today. The President did not want Marianne Marthinsen to be too much challenged, since she did not get the floor again in this debate. But let me say it this way, haughtiness stands for fall. If she takes a trip across, north of Dovre, she will quickly discover it – with the message she has. However, the Christian People's Party has proposed changes to the Energy Act to strengthen political governance and strengthen the oil and energy minister's responsibility for supply. I refer you to Document No. 8:21 for 2006-2007. The red-green government has not wanted to follow this up and obviously has greater confidence in the market. It is also important to say that several of the measures now promised by the Government were actually under way under the Bondevik II government. It concerns the mobile gas power plants, and it concerns Ørskog-Fardal. It could also be tempting to refer to the current government’s merger with the certificate market and with the power plant tax, which has stopped power plants that would have an impact on the situation in Central Norway. I recommend that we all stick our finger in the ground and see what we can do until 2013 to ensure the supply and avoid such situations happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1842	The left is also concerned about the power situation in central Norway, and we believe that the situation requires more and more vigorous action. Greater emphasis needs to be placed on increased renewable energy production and energy saving in the area. These are measures that need to be prioritised before the use of gas power plants. However, I have registered strong local wishes to invest in gas power plants with CO2 cleaning in this region, which the representative Serigstad Valen was in. So, in the case of the representative Marianne Marthinsen: it must be allowed to answer even if you don't get the word again. When the Left put in government, we decided to introduce a green certificate market for renewable energy production in cooperation with Sweden. This speeded up regional and municipal energy plants to develop projects, and considerable resources were invested in developing renewable projects across the country, including in central Norway. After the red-green government came to power, the scheme was wrecked. This led to nine out of ten wind power projects being put on ice, including projects in Middle Norway. In the climate agreement, government parties turned around and the work on green certificates was resumed. But the most important clarifications are postponed until 2012. There are several wind power projects in this area that have all the rights in place but need the necessary funding to start construction. In the climate agreement, government parties agreed to strengthen investment aid for renewable energy by opening up higher levels of support to a green certificate market. More investment aid has been announced, and some major projects in central Norway are part of the current round. It is joyful and can be an important contribution to remedying the power situation. But renewable energy work is still slowing down. It is still the case that too little money is allocated to Enova through the Energy Fund, and it is still the case that the size and the parties to the climate settlement have not seen anything about the conversion of the renewable electricity regime pending a green certificate market. I'm sorry. Another element in this matter is the work on energy saving. I have registered that Enova has taken the initiative for various seminars etc. on energy saving in Central Norway. It's positive. But I and the Left are still asking for a real boost in this effort, both in relation to households, businesses and municipalities. The left is of the opinion that we can use the situation in Central Norway for something positive, but then in the sense that we should make the region a test area or a geographical area for the development of sustainable energy solutions based on the resources available in the area – there are natural resources or potential for efficiency and energy conversion. Measures that may be included in such an experimental scheme may be: own regional support schemes for renewable projects which do not fall under other support schemes or which are not triggered by State aid schemes own regional support schemes for clean-burning wood stoves, air-to-air heat pumps, after-sole, power management systems and other effective measures to reduce household energy use measures to stimulate increased use of bioenergy for heating in larger buildings The left has expectations that the Government will follow this up and present this to the Storting through its own action plan. Finally, let me also take the opportunity to point out that the concession request for a new transfer link between Sogn and Møre, the so-called Ørskog-Fardal link, is for appeal in the ministry. This line has an impact on the force situation in central Norway in the long term. The line is controversial and the left has expectations and hopes that environmental considerations will be given great weight when selecting cable options. Where conflicts related to environmental values and aesthetic considerations become major, soil or sea cable should be selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1872	A nuclear power plant in Sweden was shut down last December, and electricity prices went to heaven in Central Norway. In January we still had high prices – sometimes 50 pst. higher than e.g. in Bergen. At the same time, we have had a bitter cold period in January and February with record power requirements. So once again, the industry and the people in Central Norway have become dizzy because of their energy supply and their own price range. At the same time, the unstable power situation is a major disadvantage in relation to the establishment of businesses in Møre and Romesdal. The hopeless and hopeless thing is that this is a wild policy from the Government, a problem we've been living with for several years without the Government having taken greater, necessary steps, except to install two mobile gas power plants – environmental bombs of NOK 3 billion for no use, as they cannot be used. On the right, several proposals have been made in the UK to draw up an action plan to prevent a power crisis in Central Norway. The Swedish Government Party has phased out the power crisis – we experienced it very often with the former Bjørn Jacobsen on the move – and former Environment Minister Helen Bjørnøy recommended people in Central Norway to use savings. I am now recording that the Council of State is also minimizing the situation. The same was also done by the representative Marthinen from the Workers' Party. Talk about a depreciation of reality! When Odd Roger Enoxsen was Minister of Energy, the response was that an action plan was being implemented, with a view to presenting it early in the autumn of 2006. Nothing has happened, and several similar questions have been rejected by the Government of Stortinget. I can promise that if the Government refuses to take greater, necessary steps to resolve the problems, the Right will continue to propose measures that can contribute in the short term – and in the longer term. One must be able to call the government's emergency action paralysis, because when Statoil was granted a concession from Norway's Vastraks- und Energiedirektorate to build gas power plants on the Tjeldbergodden, the project was scrapped because the government demanded capture of CO2 from day one. That it was scolded is understandable, as such capture is very costly. When Industrialkraft Møre finally received a concession for the construction of a gas power plant at Hustad Marble in Elnesvågen, the government made the same demands for full CO2 cleaning from day one, despite the fact that there is a modern gas power plant with efficiency up to 60 pst. While the Government demands full clean-up of CO2 from day one in Norway, Statkraft builds gas power plants without CO2 cleaning in Germany! The installations marked with an eco-label! Specific requirements for the capture and storage of CO2 are meaningless from my point of view, as gas power plants in both Norway and Germany will be part of the EU greenhouse gas allowance market. It is the total allocated emission allowances that determine greenhouse gas emissions, not whether they come in Norway or Germany. The government's no to gas power plants only contributes to higher electricity prices in central Norway, not to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The right says yes to the construction of gas power plants in More and Romesdal, without any peculiar requirements for the capture and storage of CO2. Today's government has failed in relation to the energy crisis in Central Norway. They broke negotiations with Sweden on green certificates and thus contributed to the end of almost all small-scale hydropower expansion, due to poor framework conditions. Right will improve state support schemes for the development and development of alternative green energy sources by introducing a scheme of green certificates. We want to strengthen the electricity transmission lines to other parts of the country – but we want to do it in a gentle way, which the Government does not do anything about. I refer you to the representative Erling Sande in the Central Party. They double communicate a lot, so he's probably not really the right person to comment on the communication within the Right Group. We will also facilitate the increased deployment of small-scale power plants, the modernisation of older power plants in already regulated watercourses and the careful development of protected areas. The right has also proposed the removal of taxes on waste incineration, which can also contribute to more power. A power crisis may lead to the cessation of production of Hydro’s aluminiumworks on Sunndalsøra, Hustadmarmor, even at the Worm Lange plant. A stop at the Worm Lange plant will not only rock Norway’s confidence as a gas supplier to the rest of Europe. It will also reduce the revenue of the State and the Community. It can be expensive. There is therefore an urgent need for concrete action, and I expect rapid action from the Council of State and Government – that immediate action will be taken to remedy the situation in the short term as soon as possible, and that a long-term action plan will be drawn up, as requested several times by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1918	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President will propose that this meeting continue to take place on case No. 5 has been completed. So we're not going to go all the way to the meeting, because it's comitology at 4 p.m. 16,15. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1923	I am a little surprised that the Council of State is standing on this pulpit and says that there is no power problem in Central Norway. We have so many evidences that at least the vast majority of those living in the region perceive it as a power crisis, and a unanimous council recently sent a letter to the Council of State on 19 January concluding that the power situation in Central Norway is unsustainable. We're going to be glad that some of the powerful industries have been shut down in the last few years. Otherwise the situation would have been far, far worse than it is today. Some claim that saving can correct this. The right fully agrees that saving energy is an important part of the future, but we have no faith that saving energy can remedy the power situation in Middle Norway, especially in the coming years. I don't think it's meant to talk about the snow that fell last year – we probably all have a certain responsibility for what happened earlier. But at least for the last five years, we've had a constant dialogue where we've hoped to find a solution to this. Two years ago, the then state councillor Haga said that this is what we're going to deal with, and we're going to do something about this. She reduced a sample. We had a meeting last Monday with some of the people in the sample, and they confirmed that the mandate had been completed, but nothing else happened. That is very regrettable. What's happening now has a big impact on the activity in Central Norway. Not enough to hit the current industry, and that it affects individuals: Norwegian Forest lost between 600,000 and 700,000 kroner last Monday, because due to untenable power and if the electricity price passed 70 cents, they had to shut down. It cost them between 600,000 and 700000 kroner. Personally, I have a farm use, and the last electricity bill was NOK 18 000. It's almost twice the normal, and I would think that a councillor with the experience he has from a previous office knows that agriculture doesn't have all the world's income to cover so much costs. What I'm most afraid of is the long-term effect. As I say, it affects those who operate today – some who lose the financial capacity to continue. But what's even more important is that many people who now think about establishing in central Norway, give up, because they see that it's way ahead of time before there's any similarity between the power price there and the power price elsewhere. In the place where I live, there's a lot of green nutrition, and it had an extra 5 million. kr in relation to production in the East. It is clear that if it had been equal to the electricity price in all of Norway, the competition would have been the same. But when there is one area that is heavily burdened in relation to other areas, it becomes totally unsustainable. We are very concerned about the impact on business throughout Middle Norway if nothing is done. We hope that the power line Fardal – Örskog will be laid as soon as possible. Now I heard – if I heard correctly – the Council of State say ‘if it is built’. I sincerely hope that it will be built, because there does not seem to be any particular other solution in the short term. In the meantime, I sincerely hope that when the impact is as great as it is, it must be seen as a crisis, and then it must be possible to use other energy sources for a shorter period, although that energy is not all the world's green. A lot of energy is produced in that way in the rest of Europe — and there is actually much more polluting industry there. We really hope that the Council of State takes the matter seriously and again tries to find a short-term solution, because there is a short-term solution we are talking about here – if not the impact is great for Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1944	I must admit that I am disappointed with the missing signals of the region that have the great challenges that have been discussed now and that many have repeated. We see that the regional powers in More and Romesdal and Trøndelag take this seriously. They've been working actively and they've started programs to help solve the power crisis that we're seeing, but we can't see that the same commitment is in place with central government powers, which could have helped to realize these projects. It's very disappointing to my mind. What we see is that when it comes to the energy needs that we have today, we can get a sub-coverage, and the probability of rationalization increases. We also know that the Worm Lange project is going to enter Phase 2, where one is going to run a compression program to increase the pressure in the wells to absorb more gas. This will require large energy resources. So we see in a way that there are larger and larger demands for delivery, while production can't in any way follow. It's disappointing that we can't make any more concrete and more visible solutions. I note that the Council of State has a list of electricity prices that show that there are minimal variations in price. It's okay, but it doesn't help when prices in periods are up to a level that causes you to shut down, as shown by other speakers. When the representative, Marthinsen, says that we have not left the market to sort out the energy situation in Middle Norway, it is a direct mistake. That's exactly what happens when a let market lifted the price up to NOK 8-10. Then automatically shutdowns the activity, removes the workspaces, and fears that these workspaces will be permanently lost. I hear the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen standing out as little worried about Middle Norway, and he points out that SV warns against power shortage when a determined to realize the Worm Lange project. That's right. But something about energy scarcity, which he, as a representative of Middle Norway, should be watching, I definitely miss in his post. But he may not want to represent Middle Norway. That's probably his other starting point. The conclusion is that I'm disappointed that we haven't got a clearer signal that we can bring forward and give to the region we represent. It doesn't look very promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1959	All first two explanations: In the case of letters sent from the interpellant, of course I will take it seriously as this case deserves. How the power exchange works is a big and important thing, so I'll follow it up. So the representative of Hofstad Helleland gave me an opportunity to clarify something I'm a little uncertain about how could have been like that, but I find that it has been manufactured as if I have expressed that the Middle Norway situation is not special compared to the situation in Norway. Of course, it is the North that I have been concerned about today. If there's something else in Stortinget's minutes, something strange has happened either on the way out of me or through the record. It's okay to get the opportunity to clarify this, because it's in relation to the North I've talked about the Middle Norway situation. This has probably also been heard clearly today. Then I just have to say that the representatives from the Right in general focus on nothing has been done. I must say that I am amazed that it is possible to make such a claim. I totally disagree with that statement, and I'm going to come back to it a little bit. This debate has released the cat from the bag as regards the environmental party Right. The post that the representative Røbekk Nørve made today is probably some of the most extreme that has been held in this room in recent times on environmental policy. When representatives from the Right in other contexts are concerned with following up climate settlements, concerned with what the Government is not doing, I just think we're going to cut out what has been said from the Parliament's pulpit today, because there was a relatively strong diet. I think it could almost call for a line from the Progress Party in terms of content. My good friend and predecessor Odd Roger Enoksen has been drawn up by more in the debate. It is pleasant, good and fair because he started a lot of work around this, work that has been followed up. Something has also puzzled me in the debate today. I have referred to Statnett's development plans, which are a concrete implementation, concrete action in relation to the work that was started earlier. But what I also think is that the special representative Tenden should perhaps sit down with the said Odd Roger Enoxen and once and for all go through what was not a very big matter in the Oil and Energy Department when the red-green parties took over. When I hear, and I have also over the last period heard the representative from the Left mention how wonderfully far the previous government had come to work on green certificates, I recommend a little conversation with former oil and energy minister Odd Roger Enoxen, and then you might agree on how far that work had actually come. It is possible that even the representative Tenden will get a little surprise. Then I will brag by the representative of Håbrek. I think it was today's best article. I believe that the debate here and the further debate are served by the entrance that the representative, Håbreek, had, to bring forward precisely the nuance that makes the debate well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e1976	Then there's case no. 5 completed. The cancelation of the cancellation is now scheduled for the negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2008	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2017	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. The background to the case is a proposal from the representatives of the government of Anders Anundsen and Bente Thorsen, where they asked the government not to appeal, possibly to appeal between the state and KA. The Constitutional Issue was specifically assessed by Stortinget in connection with the handling of Ot.prp. No 60 for 2007-2008 on the Law amending the Law on the Information Society Fund, cf. Inner. O. No 79 for 2007-2008. When the State has appealed the verdict in Oslo District Court, this must be seen in the context of the fact that the majority of the Stortinget has joined the assessments of the constitutional question that had been included in the proposition. That's why it's not appropriate to draw things. In a letter dated 29 January 2015. state councillor Aasrud of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church wrote that the Supreme Court’s appeal selection was made on 19 January. has decreed that the State may bring its appeal directly to the Court of Justice. The case preparation for the Supreme Court is now in progress. The case is the framework for the treatment of the Supreme Court in plenary on Monday 12 April 2010. There are seen of four days for the treatment of the case. Of course, the question of compensation cannot be settled until the case is dealt with in the Supreme Court. I have no other comments and I want the Size slider to go in for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2032	The information service's fund is made up of large values. Much of the values originate before the Reformation and are thus well documented as values given to the Church, especially through gifts and inheritance. The fund and the use of its resources are protected by the Constitution § 106. The fund is an independent legal entity and the ownership of the fund is unclear. I was in the lucky situation that I was the case rapporteur in the law case which was dealt with here in 2008, and which ended up with a narrow majority agreeing to amend Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act, so that the Santa Claus directive could be applied to the OVF. There was a strong dispute in Odelstinget about the amendment of the law and the instructions were contrary to the Constitution § 106 or not. A narrow majority, consisting of the government parties, based their conclusion on two of the political promises of the government parties in the election campaign, without particular regard to the limitations of the Constitution. There are also questions about whether it was actually a majority in Odelstingen for the amendment of the law. If the government parties had not been bound by orders from the Government, the outcome in the Chamber might have been different, and it is worth noting in a matter where the Constitution is the subject. During the debate on Innst. S. No 254 for 2007-2008 to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court in relation to the constitutionality of the amendment of the law, the representative of the government parties, Øystein Djupedal, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘If it was later to prove that this was not correct, it would be the Supreme Court which in that case would say that the Stortinget was not on a secure legal basis. I would be sorry for that, but that will be the future – and not now.” This indicates that government parties considered it to be up to the Supreme Court to resolve the constitutional issue in retrospect. During the examination of the law itself, the Church, Education and Research Committee conducted open consultations. Of the legal expertise that was heard, only the government's own lawyers believed that the law amendment was in accordance with the Constitution. Oslo District Court has ruled in the matter. The church employers' and interest groups raised a case against the state, and the judgment was given. The State completely lost the case and was ordered to pay the counterparty's costs. The Party considers that there will be an advantage for the State and, not least, for the Information Society Fund if there is a lack of additional cost-intensive legal rounds to this effect. One has seen an increasing tendency for some legal environments to choose to interpret the provisions of the Constitution in accordance with the majority understanding of the Storting at all times. Supreme Court has contributed to this development, and there is a remarkable and very unfortunate tradition that is hardly a formal basis for sticking to it. Changes to the Constitution require a two-thirds majority in the Stortinget. Using an interpretation of the Basic Law on the basis of a view shared by a simple majority in the Stortinget would be contrary to the spirit of the Basic Law and would largely disregard the purpose of the Basic Law § 112 on important issues. Professor Eivind Smith writes in his new book, “Constitutional Democracy”, on page 368: ‘Constitutional democracy must maintain that legal rules are in force until they are formally amended. [[and a country of law]] In the constitutional field, the basic law must be based on the principle that the basic law is amended by a decision taken pursuant to § 112, not by opinions in the preparatory work of ordinary laws.» It is, of course, necessary to note that there would not have been anything in the way of applying the Santa Claus directive to the OVF, but in order to do so, a person would have to go the way of changing the constitution. There will be no shortcut to change the Constitution. It should be a goal for this house – and to the extent also for the Supreme Court – that the position of the Constitution is not impaired. If the Constitution is to maintain a strong position in Norwegian policy and justice, respect for clear constitutional provisions must be maintained. Unfortunately, the majority of the population did not have the basic law's interest in the back of their mind when the law was passed in 2008. I feel confident that the Norwegian Supreme Court is conscious of its responsibility and will assess the matter when it ends there – if our proposal is not adopted – on a free legal basis, in the same way that Oslo District Court did. The information service fund has already incurred significant losses. The government parties argued in their argument during the law debate that the OVF would not suffer financial loss as a result of the law decision. History shows that this has not been followed up, and that the losses to OVF are very large, and are growing. No thoughts have been put forward about how to compensate OVF, and the only compensation that will be significant is that the loss is replaced crown by crown. It is therefore strange that the parties do not support proposal No. 1 in the position, because it is in reality in line with the then minister of the church said both to the OVF and to the Stortinget. I record that promises go quickly to date, and it is also worth noting for the Supreme Court. I would like to address the suggestions contained in the vote, on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2068	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2071	Now there have been two good posts, one from the case rapporteur and not least one from the previous speaker who explained well and thoroughly the content and background of this case. That is why this is a matter that today does not require the big debate. Here, there are clear distinctions between the political blocks. The opposition parties have been united in their reference to the illegality of intervention in the values of the fund, as adopted by the majority in the Santa Claus directive, and this has been followed up by a requirement to leave this case in place. The government clearly lost the first round of the legal system, which showed that the minority on the Stortinget – the opposition parties – was right. When the government announced that they would appeal the case, it was a natural reaction to follow up this through the proposal that was promoted in this case. As I said, the opposition has been united in the whole process, but at the time of delivery, one will still see from the papers that there was not an overall opposition that would maintain the requirement to pull the anchor. When the date for treatment in the Supreme Court was set, one could say that it is just as good to get the whole thing settled – then we will finish that case. However, the right-wing party will vote in favour of the proposal to draw the anchor when voting here today in the Chamber. We do that in order to be consistent and highlight our primary position that this matter should never have been in the legal system. It is well connected with the proposal that is common to the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, in which we ask the Government to make proposals on how to compensate the Information Society's fund for already a little loss as a result of the Santa Claus directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2084	The issue of the Santa Claus directive has been a very special matter. Those who have attached land belonging to the fund, as opposed to many other landowners in the country, were granted a significant discount by the Government, a discount from which they can again reap a significant gain if it is realised by a subsequent sale of the property. In this way, the Government took values from the community and gave them to individuals. It's allowed to be raw, but then you should be it with your own money. Taking away from local child and youth work, taking from the refurbishment of chaplains, taking from those who perform a service in the Norwegian Church – that is, from the community – and giving to private people, is not generosity. The state then also completely lost the case in the main proceedings and was sentenced to 1.45 million. kr in the costs of the case. The Oslo District Court gave this support to the minority in Stortinget, who believed that the instructions given in the amendment were contrary to the Basic Law § 106. It is not surprising that the state was in a clear defeat, with the hearing that the committee had when the case was in the Storting, with the unusually clear opinions of very prominent lawyers and with the reservations that the Ministry of Justice itself took. An implementation of the Santa Claus Guide means that the Fund’s values will be reduced by an estimated DKK 1.1 billion. In addition, annual fastening charges and fixed income will be reduced by 20 to 25 million. kr. It's not small money. We are therefore in favour of the proposal to ask the Government to make proposals on how to compensate the Information Society Fund for already a little loss as a result of the Santa Claus directive. I have seen in the media that the Progress Party is trying to retort the lack of support for the proposal to ask the Government to pull the anchor. No one doubts the position of the Christian People's Party in this matter. We strongly opposed the adoption of the empty directive. We asked the government not to allow the case to be brought to a successful conclusion by appeal at the time when the verdict from the District Court was available. We note that the case is now under consideration at the Supreme Court in April. I still think that the government should have better taken notice of the loss of the property rather than go on a click in the Supreme Court. As I said, I see that the Progress Party is trying to score a little cheap points in a case where there has been full agreement between the opposition parties. We are therefore going to – and we are doing that so that there is not the slightest doubt about what the Christian People's Party believes – to support the proposals of the Progress Party that have been addressed in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2101	The draft representative to be discussed today has its background – as has already been said – in a judgment in Oslo case law on 15 October 2009. The judgment is about the relationship between the Basic Law § 106 and the Santa Claus directive. After an overall assessment, the Court of First Instance found that it was contrary to the Basic Law to make the Santa Claus directive applicable to the Fund of the Information Society. The Santa Claus directive requires that landowners owned by the State or government-run funds be able to redeem, i.e. buy the land, at a lower price than under the general rules of the Law on Landfill. The instruction also has rules that provide lower fixing charges than under the rules of the Law on Landing. As the instructions apply to fasteners under the Information Service Fund, questions have been raised as to whether the ‘loss’ received by the Fund in the favourable redemption prices and fastening fees of the instruction is compatible with the Grundgesetz § 106. In this Constitutional Paragraph, there are provisions on how to use purchase sums and income from ‘the Spirituality of Benefited Goods’. The ‘good’ referred to in the Basic Law is the origin of the Information Society’s fund. Paragraph 106 of the Constitution thus concerns the management of the Information Society's fund. A central point in this case is the boundaries set by the Basic Law § 106 to take relatively broad social considerations into account in the management of the Information Society Fund. As you know, the government and the majority of the population have found that in this specific case – the Santa Claus directive – there is no conflict with the Constitution § 106. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has issued detailed opinions in support of such a view. I find that Oslo District Court has reached a different conclusion. The fundamental law issue in this matter has been debated in Stortinget several times earlier. I do not see any reason now to go into a new discussion about the constitutional issue, or comment on the verdict that exists. I refer to the fact that the constitutional issue was thoroughly addressed both in the legislative proposal that this case required in 2008 when the law on the fund was amended, and through the committee's consideration of the matter at the time. In the context of the Oslo District Court judgment, proposals have been made that the Government does not appeal to the judgment, possibly withdrawing the appeal. As you know, the verdict from Oslo is a matter of object law. Since the matter concerns fundamental questions about the interpretation of the Constitution, it is in everyone's interest to get a quick clarification on the constitutional issue. It was requested in the appeal that the appeal under Section 30-2 of the Arbitration Act was brought directly before the Supreme Court. As I wrote in my letter on 29 January this year to the Committee, the Appeals Committee of the Supreme Court has allowed the appeal to be promoted directly before the Supreme Court. The case is for treatment in the Court of Justice in plenary on Monday 12 April. So the fundamental law issue in this case will be dealt with at the highest court in the country in a short time. The fact that there have been differing views on this issue from a legal point of view has always been known for government and big business. This is also the reason why the constitutional issue was so comprehensively addressed – both in this bill on the fund management and by the committee when the Stortinget dealt with the matter. When the bulk of the population after this thorough review found that the Santa Claus directive was not contrary to the Basic Law, I cannot see that the Government could not appeal the judgment. The matter has a great deal of principle and practical significance. I think most people see that a district court judgment could not stand as the last word in such an important and so controversial question as the interpretation of the Constitution § 106. I refer here to the clearly expressed opinion of the majority of the population in this case, and also the consideration of the parties concerned. I am pleased that the anchor was allowed to be promoted directly for the Supreme Court, and that the matter comes up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2125	I noticed that the Council of State was very careful to comment on the Information Society's fund and the crazy consequences of this decision for the Information Society's fund, and was more concerned about the rights of parties. The parties could have been taken care of by the state having given them a lower price and compensated the funds directly for kroner. Then this would be a much smaller challenge. I disagree with the state council when she claims that a district court judgment is not sufficient clarification of the constitutional issue. It's the government that would decide. If the Government had not appealed, or is now ordered by the Storting to pull the anchor, the verdict of the District Court is sufficient clarification on the constitutional issue. It is unnecessary to appeal to the Supreme Court for that clarification. But that was not what I was going to ask questions about. What was agreed among all parties, really, when this case was dealt with, was that the Information Service's fund should at least not lose weight on this. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: why do not the Government parties then support proposal No. 1, which actually contains what was unanimous even when the bill was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2134	For the government parties, it is important to take care of the people involved in this matter, and so we have stood on the side of the Santa party. That is why we believe it was right to go to the Supreme Court to clarify the matter. So it's not right, as the representative says, that the government has said we're going to compensate OVF. What we have said in our opinions on the matter is that it is the Norwegian Church that is not going to suffer financially by possibly getting less income from the Information Society's fund. Of course, we will come back to that in the current budgets that will be available. It will be right now to await the case in the Supreme Court before proceeding with any other kind of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2142	I record that the Government has taken a position in favour of the parties and against all the church activity financed by the Information Society Fund. I think that is worrying, and I think it is gross. It is very difficult to claim that one should be able to compensate the Norwegian Church without compensating the Information Society's fund, for the Information Society's fund has quite specific tasks within the Church, for example. to ensure that it has a proper standard of living and proper administration of the religious goods. What the government really has done is give a solid gift to a few little parties. If one had had the interest of the parties in general in the back of the mind, I would assume that one would promote a change in the law of Santa Claus and not just take into account the few parties that attach the Information Society's fund. I would like to challenge the Council of State on how the Council of State will contribute to compensating the Norwegian Church in total, including the tasks assigned to the OVF, in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2149	As I said in my main post, the Government is prepared to compensate the Norwegian Church for the annual appropriations that will be advanced to the Norwegian Church, if it turns out that the Norwegian Church is receiving less money on the basis of the Santa Claus directive and the transfers that may take place from the Information Society's fund. We are ready to return to the annual budgets and ensure that the Church has the necessary resources to carry out the activity that the Storting finds the Church to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2154	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2159	Firstly, I would like to say that I am really pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party have decided to support the proposal for the Progress Party. That was very good. The matter of instructions for the sale of properties from the Information Service's fund has been discussed in detail in this room. Unfortunately, the majority of the population rejected the minority’s proposal to ask the Supreme Court for a statement to clarify whether decisions on the Santa Claus directive entail a breach of the Basic Law § 106 prior to the legal proceedings. In the debate in Stortinget on 3 June 2008, representatives from the majority said that subsequent legal proceedings would allow for further testing of the constitutionality of the decision. This suggests that the majority were uncertain about the validity of the decision. KA appealed the decision and won the Oslo District Court, which has resulted in considerable costs for the State, and they may become even greater if the majority insists that the case be dealt with in the Supreme Court. In Stortinget on 23 October 2008, the then Minister of Church Trond Giske said: ‘It’s no secret that the Workers’ Party and SV wanted to go much further when it came to Santa Claus in general, that we wanted a more shy law for people who would be masters in their own house, that we wanted it to be possible to have their own house even under a party contract that you could live with. We didn't get through there, but what we're up to is how the state manages its capital, and it's going to do it in the best possible and fairest possible way." On the basis of this, it seems to me that there has been a performance in this matter from the majority of the population. The significance of the case for the Information Society's fund is formidable in view of the need for maintenance in precincts and church acts. According to calculations made by the Church Fund, the loss has resulted in a loss of DKK 1.4 billion as a result of this instruction. With this, I hope that the majority will set aside the prestige and support the proposal to withdraw the appeal to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2181	Both the President-in-Office and the Council of State were injured to say that they could not process compensation to the Information Service's fund before the verdict is final. The challenge now is that the State, by appealing the case, risks imposing additional costs on taxpayers by enabling them to be liable for the loss actually incurred in the fund, as it initially said, to compensate them anyway, but also because of the fact that the counterparty's costs will of course be much higher. So the state was sentenced to 1.45 million. kr in the costs for the counterparty and, in addition, the costs for the State itself are incurred. I think it's a strange approach when you say you don't want to go into the question of how to solve the loss that's both being inflicted on the OVF and also the Church, before you're done with the trial. Now it doesn't go that far, but here you could have been leading was and added to a system that made the Church at least not hurt. So it's a little weird when the Council of State keeps saying that the Church shouldn't lose on this, but we're not going to compensate the OVF. What does that mean for the priesthood? The priests are part of the Church, but the priesthood is owned by the Information Society's fund. How will the Council of State, through annual budgets, try to compensate for the loss of income which is badly needed by the Information Society's fund to clean up worn-out precincts and precincts around the whole country, without the Information Society's fund being able to manage that money? I kind of don't understand the thinking about this. If the State loses, how long will it take before the State is able to compensate for the real consequences of the Information Society Fund? It was part of us who were very early in the day and said that it is essential that this instruction is not put into practice until a legal issue is resolved after KA filed against the state. But then it was obviously incredibly important for the state – read the Government – to get this Santa Claus directive going so that one could trigger the plots no matter what the legal outcome would eventually be. I think it is a regrettable way to handle a very important matter. This is a big deal in relation to those who are involved. But it is also an important and important matter in relation to those of us who are concerned that the Constitution of this house should have a slightly heavier meaning than that assigned to it by the Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2192	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2200	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2210	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Inbjørg Vosskensen on behalf of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Inbjørg Vosskensen on behalf of the Advance Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads: ‘The UK Government, in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2010, is asking the UK to present an action plan on enhanced oil protection. The size assumes that the plan contains clear and committed funding for upgrading oil protection equipment and vessels.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2236	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an overview of whether there is sufficient depot coverage, equipment and condition on the equipment that ensures the required level of security on all coastal routes where ship traffic, weather or other conditions warrant such preparedness.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2251	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, a towing boat capacity along the entire Norwegian coast with a normal response time of 6 hours and a maximum of 12 hours based on the coastal route.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2279	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2284	Is there a need to take the previous vote one more time? So it's like the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have to vote against. Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2296	There is a vote on the remaining proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:13 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2314	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, from Gorm Kjernli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The President makes it clear that in the event of a mistake, the Christian People's Party is listed as the proposer on proposal No. So 1, that's going to be the center part. proposal No 2 by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 3, by Ingerd Schou, on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to transform the Railway Agency into State undertakings’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2343	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to transform the Railway Agency into two State limited liability companies: a company is established responsible for managing the development and operation of railway property and infrastructure. The ownership of stations and roads is transferred to this company. Another company is established, which is to carry out the development and maintenance of railway infrastructure in competitive activities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2365	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the organisation of the Railway Agency as two state companies or public limited liability companies, one development and operation company and one development and maintenance company. The government asks the Government to assume that the development company will receive long-term low-interest government loans for its projects and that the company's expenditure on interest and repayment of such loans will be covered by the annual government budgets.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2380	The Committee's position and proposal No will then be replaced by a vote. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:19 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2409	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2417	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action 08182790TVI-OTIR/01; Church employers’ and stakeholder organisations against the State.’ The President is obliged to draw attention to the fact that both the Right and the Christian People's Party have said during the debate that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2442	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals on how to compensate the Information Society’s fund for losses already suffered as a result of the Santa Claus directive.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-11.ana.ud2474e2508	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
