ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e53	President of the Storting Dag Terje Andersen and representatives of Tone Merete Sønsterud, Øyvind Halleraker, Laila Davøy, Aksel Hagen, Erling Sande, Bendiks H. Arnesen and Anders Anundsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Liaison Group of the Right on the leave of the representative Ivar Kristiansen to take part in a trip with the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO to the Palestinian territories and Israel from 27 April to 30 April from the Workers' Party Group on the welfare leave of the representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo from 27 April to 10 May from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the parental leave of the representative Robert Eriksson from 27 April to 24 May Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Jette F. Christensen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget from 27 April until 2 May under the permission of the representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland County Jette F. Christensen and Toril Vebenstad For Nordland County Jonni Helge Solsvik For Northern Trøndelag County Change Skervø
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e135	Toril Vebenstad and Jonni Helge Solsvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e143	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e146	On behalf of the representatives of Nikolai Astrup, Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make proposals for the rapid implementation of socio-economically viable climate action from Climate Change 2020 and the follow-up to the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e151	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e165	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 50 minutes, Progress Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e176	The store today deals with St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the Cooperation Reform, and representatives from Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden on new welfare reform. The representative proposal deals with parts of the issues addressed in the Storing Communication. The Health and Welfare Committee has worked closely on the Reform of Cooperation. In particular, I would like to thank all those who have made representations through presentations in hearings and seminars, in debates and in other ways. The committee has listened to the recordings, and they can be found in the setting. The key themes of the Interaction Reform are the lack of interaction between services, the consequences of trends related to centralisation and decentralisation and the irreplaceable value of good health. There is broad agreement on here and the present understanding and the picture of the challenge in the Committee and in the general debate. We've done a lot of work in health services and we're seeing significant challenges in the future. The main picture is that the lack we see today will be reinforced in the years to come. Given known demographic changes and the accelerated development of the subjects, healthcare as we operate it today will not be sustainable ten and twenty years in advance. The main single reason for this will be restrictions on access to professionals because the annual budgets of new staff are too small in relation to needs. The Committee's comments show that government parties and opposition have opted for different prescriptions to provide Norwegian healthcare sustainability for the future. I assume that the opposition itself best presents its own policies and proposals. A medical picture of the difference may be that the opposition focuses on more treatment with today’s medicine, such as unit price financing and several individual plans, while government parties present an individual health care plan with competence building, rehabilitation and mastering. In the Cooperation Reform, the Government Parties present a political project and, as announced, will specify the implementation of the new national health and care plan, the budgets and the notified new health and care law. But these concrete statements must have a common political direction. And that's what we're putting here through the treatment of the cooperation reform. The interaction challenge was small in the past. The doctor’s authority provided safety, while there was no medicine for tuberculosis or pneumonia. The development of the professions has subsequently been accelerating. Today, we can switch organs and do engineering on single genes. This requires many professionals to work together for the patient. But too many patients experience that the treatments are not coherent. This is due to system failures as well as to incorrect philosophy. It's e.g. not a standard for permanent or hospitalisation to receive a report from a hospital stay at the same time as a discharge. We've set the level of expectation to 80 pst. such reports shall have been issued within one week. An improvement will require new procedures. But the most important change is a new philosophy. Nelson Mandela said after 27 years in captivity: the hardest thing is not to change the world, but to change itself. That is why we must both change legislation and set new standards. The interaction reform will call for cooperation agreements between all hospitals and municipalities. This grip will help, but alone will not be enough. Political debate, education and ethical committees are jointly responsible for making interaction a clearer part of the ethics of the subjects. How fast will this interaction improve? Promises and rules can be introduced quickly and will work. Common standards and ethics are changing more slowly. That is why this debate is both the beginning of the right decision and the beginning of important processes. The accelerating knowledge development of the subjects is accompanied by costly technology and specialisation. These trends are centralising. That is why we have acquired a pool of competences and tasks in large hospitals, although much of the treatment can equally be carried out locally given organisational organisation and appropriate competence. Through the Interaction Reform, we will build up the health service in the municipalities. The basic reason for the change is that the offer should be professionally at least as good, and the organisation should take account of local circumstances. When the population base makes it possible, local medical centres with bed places will be good solutions, as has already been demonstrated in precursor municipalities. The decision-makers are a central part of the local health service and the link between the first and second line services. This resource must be used correctly and properly. Today's contract agency provides the municipalities with the basis to use one day per. weeks for public health work. This is not fully used in all municipalities. The Committee has been given many impressions in consultations that public medical tasks should be given priority. Government parties see the need to govern and guide through agreements and regulations, so that public health work is given the necessary priority. The guiding ideas of the interaction reform support the development of good local health services. Therefore, the Cooperation Reform is a declaration of trust to Norwegian municipalities. Many municipalities are already running, alone or in cooperation, and this year we have started the investment with 230 million. For preventive work. In addition, municipalities will be responsible for ready-to-print patients in hospitals and the financial resources associated with this. For the other funding, there have been more views on the degree of incentive structure. The parties to the Government have listened to the views expressed. Some key factors have been the fact that general incentive models can both become too weak and be associated with risk. It has been argued that a general model with a low co-financing rate will not work strongly enough, while a general model will have a risk to small municipalities. It is important that incentives act as intended. Therefore, the government parties make a quality assurance of this as an instrument of total financing. How quickly can we establish a new division of work between hospitals and municipalities? In our opinion, the speed limiting factor for the change will be professional competence. The community health service can do more in conjunction with the recruitment of fixed doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, health professionals and other important disciplines. Need analysis shows that it is particularly important to follow up the recruitment of health professionals Hospitals shall be given the opportunity, through the Interaction Reform, to follow up on the rapid development of the subjects and to take responsibility for a fooded specialist health service. Hospitals have had the largest growth in doctors and nurses in recent years and the largest budget growth. Our commitment to hospitals will still be great, and the change that hospitals will experience will be a lower rate of growth, while the services in the municipalities will be built up. The highest health benefits we can offer to the population are the absence of disease, or, alternatively, the reduction of disease early in the course. Many people are pessimistic about preventive health work because the effect is present in time and because efficacy and success are not easily measurable. We don't share that kind of vision. On the contrary, there is reason for optimism and further focus on preventive health work in line with the Cooperation Reform. The World Health Organization says that 80 pst. of myocardial infarction, 90 pst. diabetes and 30 pst. the occurrence of cancer can be prevented or delayed by changes in diet, physical activity and smoking habits. Preventive health work now ensures the sustainability of future healthcare. During this article, 1,600 people in Norway have been in contact with their permanent staff, eight have been hospitalised for immediate help and one child is born. Everyone has access to the help they need, regardless of personal finances. The interaction reform is about organising services so that the same can be the case 10 and 20 years in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e210	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e213	The interaction reform was really Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's reform, and he built up quite great expectations for this reform. But the treatment here in Stortinget has shown us that the government parties have not shared the ambitions Hanssen had. Where Hanssen was clear and clear about the solutions, the government parties have been vague. For example, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was. It is clear that the important thing was that the patient was treated — not necessarily who gave it to him. The opposition parties have made many concrete proposals on this matter, in line with the intentions of the reform, while the Workers' Party has become the usual defender of the systems instead of the patients. My question is then: When on the way, did the Workers' Party lose its commitment to the patients and instead were committed to defending the systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e220	I would like to begin by saying that the reform is the Government's reform and the Government's proposals. As I see it, the commitment and interest in the reform have increased in the time we've worked on this. But in the course of our work, we've become very clear on some additional dimensions. One of these additional dimensions is that a major reform of the Norwegian community, such as this, will be carried out in a very safe way for the population. We have large service sectors today, specialist health services and community health services, which are in stable operation. A change between these is important to make in a safe and quality-secure manner. That's what we add up through our setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e225	There is a cross-political consensus in the vote that municipalities should be given co-financing responsibility for patients who are ready to print, but there is no consensus on how this should be done. The suspension and notification clearly states that government parties have intended that hospitals should be cut in their budgets similar to those of printable patients today. Health enterprises said in the hearings that this would mean that they would have to lay down similar amounts in the case of bedding items. In the evening post today we can read about Edit Schmidt in 87 years, which was written too early out of the hospital and died as a result of the damage she got at home. I'm afraid that the scheme to which the government is adding up here is going to lead to even more patients, especially older ones, being too early out of hospital, without the municipalities being able to accept these patients. How have the government parties intended that hospitals should be able to cut their budgets as a result of this scheme to which the Government provides?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e234	I choose here to take with me experience from a few years of overview and interest in hospital services. If we go back a few years — when the hospitals were affected by very large deficits — it was common for a hospital director to be asked why this was not allowed to be corrected, one was told that there were so many patients who were ready-to- print who were so large an expense post for the hospital that it explained the deficit. Then I note that in the hearing, representatives from the same hospitals now came to the conclusion that having many ready-to-print patients did not necessarily have a special cost for them. I think it's a preparation for a discussion of which excerpt will be correct. I share the representative's concern that patients should be printed out too early. But when you're done, it's better to come back to your municipality, and not be in the hospital unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e241	There's been little writing about big-time rehabilitation, but all parties have had a lot of focus on this in committee mode, and it's very positive. Increased rehabilitation efforts will be essential for the success of a future cooperation reform, in my view. However, rehabilitation measures are currently on the way to being reduced. Whole institutions are being wound up, not least ideal ones, but we also find a reduction, for example: in hospitals, in the case of pool. We know that there are several pools already closed. Some have been informed by regional health companies that this is the last year they receive funding. This problem is well known to the representative of Health. This is due, inter alia, to: a change in the reimbursement scheme for physiotherapy. Will the Workers' Party help to ensure that rehabilitation services, including pooling, are not now liquidated in advance of an interaction reform where rehabilitation becomes an important instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e250	I share the representative's commitment and interest in rehabilitation as a very important part of healthcare, where we still have a lot to do. The same patients in need of rehabilitation also need their good share of healthcare treatment. The whole idea, the guiding force of the Cooperation Reform, will support the provision of services for those patients who need rehabilitation. We have in this room, among others. during the examination of the budget, discussed and discussed challenges related to changes in financial instruments for physiotherapists in hospitals, and implications for, inter alia. pool cleaning. As a health care principle, we have the right patient to get the right help and that the financial framework should be overall, so I assume that health care companies did what they thought was professional in 2009 and continue to do so in 2010. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e263	Today we were supposed to have a happy day. Today we were to see the contours of future Health Norway. Instead, we look the side up and down with words – beautiful words and good intentions, but almost empty for concrete action and hope for all those who have been waiting for this matter. At first we had four years with a red-green government almost without initiative in health policy in Norway whatsoever. So, after the Storting had split up after a four-year period, and they got ready for election, and then it came, the answer to the challenges of the future, the reform that was supposed to be the answer that everyone had been waiting for. And in fact, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's interaction reform was good, and it received unison support from all teams, including the opposition. Hope was created, commitment grew. The notification gives a good and precise picture of a fragmented Norwegian healthcare system, where the patient is often the losing party. Too many people and patients are in line, falling through or being treated in the wrong place. They must wait for necessary and reasonable rehabilitation rather than return to work. The future looks darker if we don't do anything. We're getting more, we're living longer, we can treat diseases that previously didn't get treated. Yes, everyone agrees that we must meet the challenges of the future, we must start now. Expectations were generated, and fortunately, the response was great. Throughout the country, health workers, managers, municipal politicians, the press, research environments and, above all, private and non-profit environments started to prepare. With great commitment and expectation, this was put on the shoulders of this accumulation and this health and care committee. The expectations were not diminished by the fact that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister himself, and the current Minister of Health, pointed this out as the big thing that the whole Stortinget should be behind. It is the backbone of today’s cooperation reform – one day, unfortunately, there is no reason to flag. When I applied to Google for the word ‘cooperation reform’ in the last year, I got over 94,000 hits. In comparison, I got 24,000 hits when I applied for ‘restaurant care’, and when I applied for ‘anticipating lists in hospitals’, I got 22,000 hits. It tells us a little bit about the commitment. I also applied for ‘Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the interaction reform’, and it triggered 1,500 hits, which means about four-five hits every day he was Minister of Health. This seems to me to say a lot about the expectations and optimism that have been associated with the interaction reform. Then it's a huge paradox that so much described reform now ends in so extremely little concrete. In fact, the government parties must take the blame for it all by themselves. It is a joke to say that the only thing left of reform in this is the very heading, because, as we know, reforms are marked by will – will for concrete action, will for concrete proposals, economic will and not least the will to change legislation. The three bourgeois parties have joined forces to meet the government parties. We had a real desire to fill the reform with content and contribute to a broad settlement, which this reform both needs and deserves. Every day we get reports showing that the need for reform is present: people who die while waiting in line – some because there is no room for them or because the places are not used. Others – which unfortunately we have experienced in winter – die frozen because no one knew they needed help at all. Still others live in a rush nightmare, even though they are motivated for treatment. And if they're so lucky to be treated, there's too often no after protection, and the way back to the old environment and the rush is getting too short. Every time we in the opposition have addressed the problem of having 260 000 people in health queues, the response from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV has been: Just wait – the cooperation reform. Every time we've pressed the government for it to say, and stand, 4,500 drug users in line for help, the answer has been: the cooperation reform. Every time we have addressed the unacceptable situation in the care of the elderly, the answer has been: Just wait for the Interaction Reform. At the latest in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday, the Prime Minister’s response to the local hospitals and closure was: Just wait – the cooperation reform. So in every area and in every case the answer has been: we know that it is not quite good, but just wait, soon the interaction reform will come. Well, now the reform has come, and the treatment in Stortinget is coming to an end. There is not a single measure, not a single concrete vote, but a single element adopted in this room today that reduces health cows, that provides drug users with help, that gives older people a dignified care for the elderly, or that ensures that the rehabilitation field is strengthened as they deserve. Today could have been different, and it should have been different. An overall opposition from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party took time and energy to come forward with a realistic and good cooperation document, with a whole of 42 concrete points, which we would like to discuss with the Government, or the Government parties. We in the opposition have promoted these proposals, which all have in common that they would secure patients, users, the elderly, etc. a better future. They would create systems that simplify, give rights and contribute to a more effective health and care system in the long term. To name a few, we have, among other things, a proposal to introduce annual home visits to those who have passed 75 years. It would cost something to establish it, but we all know – including from the municipalities that practice this – that it reduces the need for early hospitalisation, it would in the long run save society too much money, and it would give a better life for many of the nurturing people in the country. Similarly, the proposal on the staffing standard for doctors in nursing homes would contribute to the necessary professional upgrade. The opposition has also proposed to give the primary physician the right to write nursing care into hospital homes, a proposal that would have helped to ensure a decent elderly care in Norway. We have also proposed a test law that provides opportunities for engaged municipalities and others – those who wear the shoes and know the problems – who would try out models, to do so. In this proposal, we assume that the pilot projects must demonstrate that they contribute to better interaction before they become general policies. In this way, we take the local involvement seriously. Then we get a reform that is built from below and up, and not the other way around. Under the previous civil government, waiting lists for necessary hospital treatment were reduced. With today's government they've increased again, and now they're up on a staggering 260,000. This is due both to under-financing, to a reduction in the ISF share, and to an allergy to private solutions. So what do you do when you see the waiting lists get longer? Well, it is proposed to further reduce the ISF share – understand what it can do. Our solution is the opposite: increase the ISF share. Let it again be profitable to treat patients. And yes, we know that that system is not perfect, and that, among other things, chroniclers have not always come out lucky. But rather, let's correct what turns out wrong, and that by a review, for example. by the DRG system, as we also propose – bring in a dynamic and flexibility that takes account of those considerations. Let's not destroy a system that works because a few fall outside, we'll fix it either. The most important thing about the Interaction Reform was perhaps habilitation and rehabilitation, the invisible fields. But it's only when we've managed to make sure that people don't get sick or that those who are sick come back to work after being sick that we've managed to reform the health system. It is in these areas the greatest expectations lie. It's also where the big savings for society and the individual lie. In this field too, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have made concrete proposals. Here we want an escalation plan for habilitation and rehabilitation. We have to say what to do, and we have to be so specific that it can be measured. That is why we want such a concrete plan, and we are committed to exploiting the ideal and private in the field. This, in my opinion, is embarrassing, embarrassing, even directly sad on the part of the government parties. This has become a non-content reform that probably had much greater function as an election campaign document for government parties than providing patients and users in Norway with better health and care services. Today could have been different. This could have been the day when a single political Norway had been united about the most important health reform in very many years. This could have been the day when the flag was raised to the top of the country's nursing home, rehabilitation facilities, etc. With these words I will also be allowed to comment on the proposals of the Progress Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e305	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e310	I am recording that the representative Olsen does not think there is any reason to say that this is a happy day. I understand they've had heavy days -- they've had a national meeting, and they're continuing the black paint here in Stortinget with maybe even wider brush. There's an ideological distinction in the setting. It is linked to the proportion of hospital funding to be managed and the extent to which basic funding should be provided. We are committed to strengthening the basic funding, while the Advance Party and the right-hand side will make even more stores out of hospitals. I heard the representative Olsen say something about the fact that we would rather repair compared to those who fell outside. I would like to hear what he has in the toolbox when he is going to repair in relation to those who fall outside, when he is going to strengthen the input part further – so we will go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e317	Thank you for the visit to the Country Meeting of the Advance Party, which was also a very constructive and good country meeting. It is always fun to have the pleasure of being a whole weekend with 400-500 FrPs, and on a later occasion I would like to be able to invite Hagebaken to our national meeting. We have a long tradition of also inviting people who don't share our vision, to listen to them. Then he can also have the pleasure of experiencing a good FrP country meeting. In the case of ISF, the Progress Party is actually very proud to be among the parties that want to increase the ISF share, because there is a system that makes it pay to treat people, that it pays to get people back to work, that it is worth doing what hospitals are best to treat patients. We all know – as I also said in my post – that there are some things that fall a bit outside that system, among other things. know that we have a DRG system that is not good enough. We want to go into it and make it more flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e324	The top objective of the cooperation reform is to prevent disease, so that fewer people get sick. The Progress Party will have a funding mechanism where the money will follow the patient, and – as I have said – one will also increase effort-driven funding. But when the money is going to follow the patient, it doesn't help prevent it because there's an established disease, i.e. diagnosis, that will trigger money, and that's the gateway to get the cost covered. My question is whether the Progress Party seriously believes that they want more prevention in society, when they are still maintaining this funding mechanism that works against increased prevention in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e331	I do not share that reality with the representative Toppe. I actually think it's possible to have two thoughts in my head at the same time, both have a funding system in Norwegian hospitals that makes it profitable to treat those patients who are already ill, and at the same time think about having a policy that makes people not sick. This cannot be the case, as the Labour Party and the Center Party now add, that because we're going to bet on habilitation, because we're going to bet on people not getting sick, we're no longer going to leave it profitable to treat the patients who are already in line. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both having a system that ensures that we reduce the huge waiting lists created under the government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and at the same time work constructively to ensure that people do not get sick. That is precisely why the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have good proposals for habilitation, concrete proposals for this which you do not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e336	There will be a follow-up, and funding, for a very central part of the whole reform is that funding should go in the same direction as the objective of the reform. The objective of the reform is prevention, early response and interaction. The Advance Party wants more price financing for hospitals – I think they really want 100 pst., they can confirm that. They will have unit-price financing for hospitals, and they will receive unit-price financing for the municipal health service. We can go further: they want the cost of the school as well. That is the big price financing party on Stortinget, you might say. There is a lot to say about price financing and market orientation of the public sector and funding models, but none of these elements were designed for prevention, for interaction between levels. I believe that the committee and the representative Olsen got confirmed when we were on committee visits to Kaiser Permanente in the United States. I have to ask the representative: where in the world does he have examples of this working?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e345	It is so that even though the representative Hansen repeatedly in Stortinget says that we want 100 pst. unit-price financing for everything in society does not result in correctness, even if it is repeated. The note that we are the big price financing party, I take with me great joy and keep on the party, because it's a policy we're actually very proud of, a policy that has actually gotten health cows down in this country, and a policy we actually need more. I would like to take a debate on price financing at any time and would like to hear what Hansen has as an alternative. For the policies pursued by the Government have contributed to the opposite, for example: health cows are getting longer when the share of the price is reduced. So when Hansen now says that the central point of the reform is funding, it would have been exciting to ask back, even though, of course, I don't get any answer: what are the government parties' answers to funding? There is one of several things hanging in the loose air when this matter is adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e350	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e353	Today could be an important day for patients and Norwegian health services – a day when a new course and a new policy that made our healthcare better for patients and at the same time more sustainable for the future. Unfortunately, today will also be a new day in which one loses more time to make necessary changes. We have one of the world's best health services, it solves unfathomable challenges every day – they doctors, they comfort and they care for thousands of patients every day. Nevertheless, we have major challenges. Therefore, in October 2003, the Bondevik II government set up the Wisløff Committee to investigate how to get a health service that is better connected, for the benefit of the patient. The committee made its recommendations in February 2005, and the hearing was over just before the government change in 2005. There was the investigation and collecting dust in the drawer of Minister of Health Brustad, and in that drawer was not the investigation alone. When Bjarne Håkon Hanssen took over, he blew dust from the investigation and made it his cause. That's good! In the spring of 2009, many exciting views came from the Minister of Health. He wanted to address the fundamental problem – the municipal structure. There were supposed to be new local health centres and health municipalities. Unfortunately, this was quickly shot down by the government partner of the Center Party. On the right, he wholeheartedly supported the fact that Stortinget had to get a big message about interaction. We requested the message several times, and were clear on our requirements for such a message before it was submitted: It must contain an obligatory plan for upgrading municipal health and care services. We need larger and more robust municipalities that are able to provide patients with better health services. There has to be more relocating on doctors and less on patients. There must be more contract specialists, and health centres and school health services need to be strengthened. We need a telemedicine plan. The competence and quality of services of local authorities must be strengthened by: (a) several nurses (b) that doctors in hospitals serve as much as doctors in hospitals (c) knowledge-raising for the more than 30 pst. unskilled in the care sector (d) more research and technical development in municipal health and care services. We need a rehabilitation reform. There must be faster health care, and the queues must be cut. Hospitals need to be developed, not least in terms of quality and diversity. Private doctors must remain private practitioners. If the government was serious about the invitation for a broad settlement on this matter, I expect that they would also have put themselves well into the Ten Right Claims. The message did not respond to our demands, but we felt that the cooperation letter was there. It was expressed both by the newly elected Prime Minister, the new Minister of Health and Welfare and the Prime Minister. We also experienced the same position in the Storting Health and Care Committee. The surprise was therefore great when we were rejected in cash after the opposition had agreed on a common policy. We had negotiated a common basis that took away the special points of the parties, and we had also removed points that we agreed on, but for which we knew was not possible – for example. the closure of regional health establishments. So we would have done half the work in many ways. But the red-greens require interaction of healthcare, but they do not have the ability to interact with the opposition to get a robust reform. Experience from previous health reforms, such as the elderly reform and the psychiatry escalation plan, suggests that there is a broad agreement, committed concrete plans anchored in the Stortinget, these are followed up. I don't think it's my colleagues in the committee's fault. That's because the government's management didn't give them the room for action to negotiate. A government that is divided and divided has no basis for talking to others. The announcement of the cancellation had done its job as a health-policy lightning conductor in the election campaign. Now the work on new content has moved into a state secretarial committee – before the Stortinge has said its own here today. It's in itself a democratic problem. The most positive thing that has happened in this case stands for the opposition. We have worked through this process to a concrete plan for large parts of Health Norway that are ready for implementation after the 2013 elections. This is a plan that I experience has received broad support in the healthcare system, among the patient organisations and the employees in the municipalities and specialist health services. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party for their good cooperation, which I believe will be of great importance in the years to come. I am also pleased that the Left expresses their support for much of this work. We have a completely different approach to the reform than the government parties have. We believe that interaction with and about the patient takes place primarily between those who meet the patient. It's people who are going to interact. The message is far too marked by the fact that there are systems to interact, yes, one can sometimes get the impression that the main problem is that the hospital directors are not interacting enough with the councillor in the municipality. Those who work in health care want to interact and have good ideas on how to deal with it. But they face two key obstacles: economics and legislation. That is why we are proposing to remove these two barriers to interaction. We establish earmarked funds for cooperation projects, in many ways in accordance with the Wisløff Committee's proposal. Then we propose a test law, where the department is given the powers to approve cross-law interaction solutions, which require the efforts of both the specialist health service and the community health service. In many ways, we believe that the cooperation reform should be built from below and up – with different solutions in different parts of the country. In this way, we also ensure ourselves against what I consider to be the greatest danger of the Government’s approach – that a start is made on the dismantling and tightening up of specialist health services before building up the offer in the municipal health service. We experienced this both in the PU reform and in the psychiatry reform. It is so much easier to build down and hold back than to build up and establish new offers. This reform cannot be a zero-sum game, where the construction of the offer in the municipalities is to be financed year by year by year through the dismantling of the specialist health service, as proposed by the Government. It must be the ability of municipalities to solve the challenges that must control speed. Prevention does not give results the same year as a grant of money to it. The disease and age development described by the reform not only requires more interaction, it also requires more interaction. This applies in particular to the provision of chronically ill people, whether they are revenmatics, mentally ill or drug addicts. We believe that there is still a significant point in the psychiatry escalation plan, which is an offer at municipal level that does not require referral from the district council, but which only requires the patient – preferably with the councillor – to knock on the neighbouring door, to a psychologist or psychiatrist who can help there and then. This morning I experienced a sad tradition. It was the rehabilitation action that threw in the towel. Most of the country’s patient organisations have been working for several years now to get a political promise of a rehabilitating plan to become more than what they call ‘blah, blah’, that is, a reality. But now they've given up this form of action. They thanked the Cooperation Committee but had to note that they had not achieved what they wanted. All indications are that the red-green majority will also vote today on a proposal for an obliging recovery plan, a plan that is absolutely necessary to give substance to the cooperation reform. Neither do those patients who may experience the most dramatic consequences of a lack of offer and interaction get promises today of an escalation. It's the drug addicts. There are no limits to how strong words red-green politicians have been willing to use to describe today's offer, but suggestions from us on improvements are also being voted down today. The establishment of multiple treatment sites and improved interaction on responsibilities for this patient group may be the single measure that could provide the fastest positive results for patients in Health-Norway today. There is one area that I want to highlight, which is positive, and which the Committee has agreed on, and that is that there is a need for a national plan for new IT solutions in the health sector. It will be absolutely essential to achieve a concrete interaction between the different sectors that one has good IT solutions, establishes patient portals and uses new technologies – not least to ensure that the patient becomes more involved and interacts with healthcare to obtain information that allows himself to start preventive health work and to use the information obtained from healthcare to make changes in his or her life that make him or her not sick. This has been well demonstrated by the Committee, including: in the United States. Here I am pleased that there is broad political consensus, and I am excited about how the Government intends to follow up these remarks. I have recorded that the government believes that the opposition's policy becomes too expensive. I totally disagree with that. It costs more to make people sick, without teaching them to live with disease — as a result of lack of rehabilitation services. It is more expensive to detoxify drug addicts and then send them back to the drug setting before they receive treatment — as a result of a lack of treatment. It costs more to let the ideas and enthusiasm of thousands of health workers who want to interact die out pending a red-green ‘grand design’ solution that is to three one system down all over Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e438	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e442	The interaction reform points to the fact that today we have neither up-to-date legislation nor sufficient skills to fully exploit ICT for interactions in the health sector. In this context, it has been strange to see that the Right is struggling against much of this, both in terms of obtaining good health records and the ability to allow patient information to follow the patient across businesses. In a debate between the representative Höie and me he writes the following in Avisa Nordland on 11 March this year: ‘The government of the Knutsen has also been in favour of wide-ranging access to the exchange of patient records across hospitals, which the Medical Association has described as the most serious estimate of the obligation of professional secrecy in our time.’ Following numerous calls to do something about today's unsustainable practices, both from doctors, technology environments and patients, my question is: Is the Right ready to moderate its view and to engage in better interaction by, for example: electronic patient records must be able to monitor the patient across institutions, levels and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e452	I perceive that the representative Knutsen is deliberately trying to misunderstand the Right’s position on these matters. The right has never been in favour of using new IT solutions, nor has it been in favour of exchanging information between the different levels in cases where the exchange of information is necessary to provide the patient with good health care. The reason why we react to the government parties' legislative proposals in Stortinget is that they are out of privacy. Exposure of a patient record to all the thousands of health care staff without having a controlled access, such as us. then in the case of Kaiser Permanente, where a safety glass had to be broken if one was in a serious situation, the type of privacy measures – shows that the Workers' Party continues its bad and long tradition of not caring about privacy and where they believe that privacy is the same as IT security.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e457	In the Interaction Reform, it is underlined the importance of strengthening municipalities, upgrading municipal health services, and strengthening the management of medical services by municipalities. Today, there is a privatised scheme under the framework of the fixed medical scheme – in many areas successful. It is essential that municipalities are given stronger control and are given the opportunity to handle, among other things. health care – this is based on the intention to prevent public health and that medical services become part of this. The right has not agreed to this and has a comment that states that you should continue as now. Can Höie explain this in more detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e464	I think it's a big challenge that we have a far too bad medical coverage on the nursing homes today. For this reason, the Right Party, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have proposed in this setting that one should have national'manning standards for the medical coverage of hospitals', which the red-green parties will vote against. There is not a single job vacancy in Norway today related to working as a doctor in a nursing home. The challenge is not to get doctors to apply for these jobs, but to get the municipalities to set them up. When the municipalities create them, we want the best doctors there. We don't get that by force. If the red-green politicians believe that one will be able to raise the status of elderly care in Norway by doing it with older people for forced labour, I want them to be happy. Among other things, the opposition party Left proposes to do something about the salary level of doctors working in the municipal health service. It is no wonder that the best doctors who work with the most difficult patients apply to the specialist health service, when they experience completely different professional challenges and completely different levels of pay in the specialist health service than they do in the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e473	The representative Höie tried with a history description initially in his article that deserves to be corrected. He said that progressive proposals from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen were shot down by the Center Party. That's wrong. The centre party has opposed an offensive approach to this. We were the first party to program this, based on local experience. Many of our people around the municipalities, together with many others, have already done a lot of the work this is all about. My question, however, is whether the Right's attachment to making this a structural reform of the municipalities – it is raised very high. I would like to remind you that the last time the Stortinge adopted major changes in the municipal sector, ten to twelve years of preparatory work went by. Here the Right is taking the order to do it in a very short time. I think it's a complete derailment of the debate, where the municipalities are going to spend time on structure instead of solving the problems for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e480	It may be impossible to vote that Ola Borten Moe has read this setting. All the joint proposals that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have put forward are based on today's municipal structure, and where we address the proposal that the Center Party made before it was presented, namely that we should use both legislative and earmarked means to ensure that the municipalities that are too small to solve the new health tasks are forced to cooperate with other municipalities in order to create an adequate environment of competence to take care of patients. With the Central Party approach, transferring responsibility to the municipalities without giving them neither money nor competence environment in order to deal with the challenge, it is the patients who will have to pay the high price. And unfortunately, as far as the second discussion is concerned, namely the discussion of municipal structure – which we would like to take with the representative Borten Moe at any time – it is actually the weakest in our society who today pays the high price of the Central Party's resistance to a fundamental change in Norwegian society, that is to do something about the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e490	It is the long-term perspective that needs to be taken into account when debating the interaction reform, the challenges Norway will face from a 20–25 year perspective, perhaps – not the short-term one that dominates the media picture on a daily basis, nor next year’s budget, but the long-term one. We know a lot about the situation 20–25 years ahead of time. The number of persons aged over 67 will double by 2050. The number of persons aged over 80 will increase from 218 000 in 2007 to 325 000 in 2030 and to over 500000 in 2050. It is not a problem that people live here any longer in the country, it is a joy and will be a resource for the future as well. But at the same time, we know that health services will be faced with major challenges. We get more health problems when we get older. Diseases such as cancer, coal, heart failure and dementia will increase to an extent. The need for health professionals will increase. It is estimated that if it continues as today, we will lack 43 000 annual work in the health sector in ten years' time. Today, we have a marked increase in lifestyle diseases. That is the dominant challenge in the Western world. 200,000 Northmen have carbon, 66 000 have dementia – the number will double until 2035 – and 235,000 have diabetes. It is estimated that half of all European adults and one in five children are obese. The World Health Organization has declared the obesity epidemic as one of the main health challenges in the coming years. Psychiatric health and drug use will increase significantly by 2030, and in the future there will be 24 000 new cancer cases each year. These major challenges we face will not be solved in hospitals. They are also not allowed to be treated away. That is why the main objective of the Cooperation Reform is quite correct. The focus of health policy shall be on early interventions, prevention and, in particular, on more focus on primary prevention, from the public health perspective. Here we can borrow words from a former philosopher, Hippocrates, who was already 400 years B.C. said, "Surely it's right to help sick people get better, but it's just as important to prevent healthy people from getting sick." At least 40 pst. of all non-infectious chronic lifestyle diseases that we are applying can be prevented through improved lifestyle control. The interaction reform is based on the objective of reducing social health inequalities, of providing an equivalent range of health services to independent residents, the personal economy, gender, ethnic background and the individual’s situation — short waiting, treatment and care as close as possible to users. This is best achieved by strengthening the community health service, increasing the focus on public health work, setting up a local medical centre, and not least by developing the role of local hospitals in the specialist health service. There's been a lot of debate about the local hospitals lately. Let me just underline that local hospitals represent an important foundation in the strategy underpinning the Cooperation Reform. They represent a closeness, they represent early effort, and they are a supporter of the decentralised health care system in our country. The highest priority shall be given to the community health service in the coming years. While the specialist health service has had the largest increase in financial and human resources in the last ten years, the municipal health service has slowed down. It is best illustrated when we look at the increase in medical work. The number of medical doctors in specialist health services increased by 1840, to 11 000 in the period 2002–2009, while in the same period for municipalities only increased by 250, to 4000. Through the legislation, municipalities must be given a clear responsibility that reflects the public health perspective, prevention and early intervention. In particular, the role of the coordinator also played by the county authorities in public health work must be clarified. Strengthening cooperation between municipalities, county councils, regional health enterprises and not least the third sector — the voluntary sector — must be developed in order to achieve the objective. The Committee has also highlighted the importance of parents, kindergartens and primary schools for a good start to life, and not least for reducing differences in living conditions and health. It's almost like today that a boy born in the district of Sagene in Oslo can count on living until he's 68 years old. Had he been born in West Aker, the predictions are good that he had been over 80 years. Although life expectancy is increasing in all the groups here in the country, the highest educated take much greater steps than others. Short-term education — and what kind of work you have — often has a major impact on life expectancy and increases the likelihood of early death. The social inequalities in health will increase more in Norway than in Western countries it is natural to compare us with. It underlines the importance of prioritising prevention health. There has been a cross-political consensus in the Committee that habilitation and rehabilitation must be given a clear place both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. That's not good enough as it is today. It appears from a study that it is random who receives a relevant offer and who does not receive it. More research is needed in this area. This field must therefore be given greater priority in the further work on implementing the reform. In a comparative perspective where an individual patient cycle requires good, adapted and coherent arrangements, habilitation and rehabilitation must be a natural part of the patient cycle for those patient groups that need it. The labour dimension also needs to be strengthened in the follow-up to the Interaction Reform. The interaction between Nav and healthcare needs to be reviewed. Good and adapted rehabilitation services will provide faster return to the labour market. Very crucial for whether we will be able to meet the challenges of the coming years is whether we are able to recruit enough health professionals and personnel with the right skills. The Communication sets out the need to be between 95 000 and 135000 by 2030, while increasing access to healthcare professionals by around 100000. Today’s educational capacity is continuing until 2020. It takes several years to train health professionals. Therefore, the capacity escalation must start now. The challenge in this area will require close cooperation between the health sector and the education sector, and not least between the municipal sector and the education sector. I would like to stress that health education needs to build up in a completely different way from today, under the need for more doctors, nurses, psychologists, physiotherapists, etc. in the Municipal Health Service. This will include, inter alia: a significant increase in the need for primary health practice places. The decentralised education offer needs to be expanded in order to achieve good geographical differences in terms of health professionals around the country. With this reform, we are proposing fundamental changes to healthcare for many years to come. One of the most important factors in achieving the objective of the reform is that the reform is financed with fresh money and that the facility in the economy becomes such that it stimulates interaction, prevention, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The current financing model for specialist healthcare does not do that, nor was it intended to do so. It stimulates the growth of volume, as much as possible the treatment and establishment of a market system with competition for personnel, money and patients. The financing of the specialist health service needs to be shifted in such a way as to move in the same direction as the objective of the Interaction Reform. In SV, we are very pleased with the change that is now coming, namely that the basic allocation to hospitals is increased to 70 pst. The whole funding system needs to be reviewed. I also believe that we need to look critically at whether the incentives for funding the permanent scheme are moving in the same direction as the objective of the reform. The Progress Party and the Right are moving in the opposite direction: more price, more of a financing model that was definitely not made for the reform we are about to adopt today. They go in with open eyes to run on solutions that don't work according to purpose, but we know that it can be difficult to think critically and constructively when attitudes are religiously founded. The proposal for a 20 pst municipal co-financing model. has been partially side-by-side. We must be sure that the economic follow-up to the reform will deliver the desired results. Therefore, the co-financing will initially apply to patients who are ready to print. The Committee also stresses that earmarked transfers to municipalities, as set out in the Psychiatric Plan, are the way forward to fund the reform. I would like to stress that the work now to be done in the Government to put the economy in place is of particular importance and that the overall objective of the Interaction Reform – prevention, public health, early efforts, habilitation and rehabilitation – must be taken into account when creating the financial instruments. If we get incentives that crack in every direction, we won't succeed. I have a little bit more, President, but I'm not going to try to take it now, as it approaches the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e543	Time is already up, and it is a good advice not to try it then! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e548	It was an interesting point to listen to, with a good situation description and once again completely without concrete measures that could improve the situation. But I want to quote a little bit from SV's program for this magnification period, where it says: ‘The plan’ — i.e. a drug plan — ‘must mean earmarked funds for the drug field both in municipalities and in regional health establishments. In addition, treatment queues shall be removed during the landfilling period through the exploitation of existing facilities and the creation of new treatment sites by earmarked means.’ When we see at the same time that there are 4 500 people in line, and the bourgeois parties in the proposals for this reform say that we must immediately use the available capacity in the private and non-profit sector, my question is: how can SV oppose our proposals, which in reality means fulfilling the SV's own programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e558	I believe that the framework for drug treatment was increased by 150 million. kr in the year’s budget. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the content of the reform, the main thrust of the reform, is very well adapted to the challenges we face in the field of drugs, namely prevention, early intervention and rehabilitation. That is what is essential for us to succeed, and is what has been so far lacking. That is why we are very pleased with the content of the reform and the follow-up that will also come to the drugs field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e566	SV believes that the question of whether the input-driven funding should be 30 pst., 40 pst. or 50 pst, is a fundamental ideological question. But if the distinction between a hot social policy and a cold market thinking goes at 30 pst. ISF, of course, has been pursuing a cold market policy for five years. The 2003 NOU:1 on input-driven funding points out that a higher proportion of ISF contributes to increased patient treatment and that reduced ISF efforts primarily provide better cost control than reducing hospital incentives to treat patients. In fact, the committee proposed that more people, both mentally ill and drug-treated, should be covered by this funding. We're supporting that because it's worth treating more patients. SV’s arrangements involve increased waiting times and increased health cows while keeping mentally ill and addicts out of a system. Does SV mean that the Hagen committee is wrong, or is this really just a saving proposal camouflaged with tumorous rhetoric for SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e575	I registered that the report was made in 2003. What has been shown by the experience with unit price financing is that important patient groups have fallen outside, have been deprived and put at the back of the line, especially in the areas of rehabilitation and habilitation. It's not about the 30 pst, 40 pst. or 50 pst. What I have said in this debate is that I am pleased that it is going in the right direction. The share of unit prices is falling, so that we get better space and a better funding model to achieve the objective of the cooperation reform, namely interaction between levels, prevention, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Unit price financing is not suitable for implementing the objectives of this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e582	I noticed first that the representative said that the 20 p.m. co-financing was fortunately frozen. In today's Business, Secretary of State Ingebrichtsen said that it was not at all set aside, but investigated further. But this is not my question. Hospitals today act as if the Interaction Reform is in progress and the municipalities are already operational. What happens is faster printing, reducing bed capacity, proposing a reduction in food and emergency services, and reducing rehabilitation measures. There are even some hospitals closed, and a number of hospitals are proposed to be closed. The municipalities are despairing and waiting for clarification. They are waiting for money, empowerment and a response to how the financial instruments will be resolved in a future interaction reform. My question to the representative is whether it is right to allow the specialist health service to be reduced so much now, pending a future reform, when so much is unclear?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e591	It has not been suggested that the specialist health service should be built up. The budget for the year provides for an increase in the framework capacity of 1.3 p.m. to 1.5 p.m.. So we've got a reinforced frame. We're also going to have that in the years to come. But the main priority, the future great growth, – I assume that the Christian People's Party also agrees – is to enter the primary health service in the municipal health service. So we have set up a state secretarial committee to prepare a matter for government and enlargement, so that, on a later occasion, we can adopt what the financing model should be for the implementation of the cooperation reform, so that we can achieve the objectives. But we're not going to build up the specialist health service. There's nowhere, there's not a single word either in the staging message or in the setting. But the big growth is going to be in the municipal health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e599	Norway is a rich country with a healthy population and good health services. Our lifespan has increased by an average of ten years since the 1950s. Increased living standards and good welfare arrangements are the main factors in this. But also the fact that we can afford to use medical innovations means that our lives are getting longer and longer. But there are clouds in the sky. Norway is the frame of what I call the «welfare's problem». A dramatic increase in so-called lifestyle diseases carries public health. In the next ten years, we are facing a doubling of the number of older people, while predictions of a significant shortage of health workers. We have a top-heavy healthcare system because for many years it has focused more on specialist medicine and blue light medicine than on community health services and prevention. The organisation and funding of the healthcare system have affected patients with complex needs, the elderly and the chroniclers – just these groups of which we now receive many more. 'Well-made problem' has forced us into a corner. The question is not whether we have to change health policy, but when we have to do it. Development requires a change in course, and that's the responsibility we're taking red-green today. The centre party thinks we should be ambitious in this work. The patient should be centred. We're going to get more decentralised specialist health services through the establishment of local medical centres and the development of the role of local hospitals. The local medical centre is also nothing new with this reform. We have many good examples of this from cooperating municipalities today. The new thing is that health care agencies and municipalities/cooperating municipalities will have a statutory obligation to cooperate on decentralised healthcare provision. In order to achieve this as a national initiative, it is important to increase prevention efforts to pay off. The interaction reform therefore contains concrete proposals for changes to the funding system. A greater proportion of the growth in the health budget will then go to the municipalities. There shall be adequate means of prevention. Municipalities should be given financial and professional responsibility for patients who are ready-to-print and input-driven funding reduced. Municipal co-financing of hospital services shall be made available in the light of the hearing findings received. The limiting factor for implementing this reform is neither the method of funding nor the size of the municipality; the delimiting factor is the availability of skilled labour. We just have a huge crew problem. In particular, there will be a shortage of health professionals and nurses. Increased educational capacity and recruitment for these jobs is what this reform is all about. We need to step up our educational capacity. We have to turn the devices into education so that more people are eroded in order to work in the municipal health service. There must be more determination, while at the same time getting clearer municipal control of the general medical tasks that can be imposed on the doctor. A Joint Committee supports the Government's proposal to carry out a broad review of specialist training for lizards, both in terms of organisation and content. There is also a cross-political agreement on the need for better interaction between medical and other municipal services, and the need to strengthen the professional and organisational requirements of municipal medical services. The centre party is busy that we are involved in the implementation of the cooperation reform, including and playing along with the voluntary organisations. These represent a reserve of labour that we cannot afford to ignore. The work being done here in the care area, in the drug prevention field, in culture, in outdoors and in sport, and in creating good meeting places in the community are very good prevention and in line with the intentions of the Cooperation Reform. The Centre Party regards the Reform of Cooperation as a completely necessary reform of the Norwegian Health Service. There is a broad political agreement on the objectives and on the vast majority of measures taken. It shows the configuration from the committee. The opposition has no fundamental proposals for change, other than additional growth in costs and demands for municipal convergence. The Government Party recognises the long-termity of development work. It will take time to develop the professional and competent arrangements for the reform. We must not believe that we can solve everything in one big message. The work is now starting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e627	Local and party leaders Navarsete said less than two weeks ago that health businesses need to get more money so that they do not have to lay down local hospitals. The three bourgeois parties are united behind the requirement that there be no cuts in the health business framework resulting from the conversion in which the municipalities assume the financial responsibility for ready-to-print patients. So this is the central part opposite. Then my question would be: wouldn't it not have been natural for the Centre Party to vote to keep more money in health companies, since their own party leader is not satisfied with the financial transfers that health companies get from today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e634	Interaction reform involves the development of local hospitals. This is confirmed in the government plan, and we have repeated this in our comments – because local hospitals should be able to take on the large patient groups involved in the cooperation reform. When it comes to healthcare professionals’ finances, it is clear that they will get better, as they get rid of the patients who are there waiting for an outpatient offer in the municipalities. It is in one way this change in health policy that the cooperation reform is about. It's not about cheap outings about who gives most or least money to the different hospitals or municipalities in Health-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e641	The interaction reform means that municipalities are given a considerable increase in responsibility for prevention, treatment and ready-to- print patients. However, with the arrangements of the Government Parties, there is no explanation of how these tasks should be financed. It is still possible that the municipalities have to take part in the hospital bill, which the municipalities, patient organisations and trade unions have strongly protested against. The right, together with the other civil parties, has proposed a concrete stepping-up plan to ensure that municipalities have the resources and competence to carry out their new tasks. Why is the Central Party voting against a scheme that would provide the municipalities with the necessary resources and predictability to solve the problems? After all, the centre party clearly states that it does not have an impact on its health policy, whether it is about the closure of local hospitals or the management of health businesses. Is it the municipalities that will be left with the black teats in a game where the Centre Party has once again lost for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e650	First, I want to say that the Centre Party is very happy and a driver for the municipalities to have more health policy tasks, because we believe that the municipalities are the best people who are able to take care of and implement the health policy we face with an increase in the need. Then it is clear that the tasks transferred to the municipalities will be fully financed. The message from the Government is clearly identified. We have also repeated that in the comments in the committee's position. Nor can I see that the Right and the rest of the opposition have any other more tangible financial arrangements that will make it more conservative for the municipalities, except that one should pay attention to the red-green resources for a period of time. We also say that we should discuss when funding issues come in 2010–2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e660	It's great that the Center Party is busy with our local hospitals. In the setting, government parties say that a local hospital provides ‘local services that would otherwise be natural to assemble in a local medical centre’. My question is whether it means that the government parties, or the government, in the further investigation work on task-sharing can come to the conclusion that a local hospital and a local medical centre are defined equally? To put it another way: will the centre party make sure that that doesn't happen? Because I think that would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e667	It is that this country is quite a long way off, and we have many different communities and also different local hospitals. This health reform will result in a decentralisation of the specialist services. Some places in the country are already so decentralised that it would be natural for a local hospital to have the tasks that a local medical centre should do. We insist that no local hospital should be closed down and that conversion to a local medical centre should not take place at the time of the closure of a local hospital. This is a reform to be managed by the municipalities, and a local medical centre is a municipal initiative to be established in cooperation with the specialist services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e674	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e677	Many people believe that the Stortinge today is dealing with a new interaction reform, but unfortunately we do not. We process a bulk message with good facts, but with little concrete action. Still, we find some good intentions. In my view, one of the most important aspects of a future reform will be the funding system, between the state and the municipality. This is not solved in any way in the message. Before the Committee gave its opinion, the Government set up a State Secretary's Committee to investigate financing solutions that have not been implemented in connection with the notification. I must admit that I had hoped we had come further today than we are. The matter had also been served with a broad settlement in Stortinget. Patients really need a more coherent healthcare at all levels. This was supposed to be an interaction reform. We were to have measures to ensure that drug addicts received good follow-up in the municipalities and did not move back to the start after detoxification or treatment in the specialist health service. We should be given measures to ensure that people with mental disorders received early diagnosis, rapid treatment and suitable housing. We were to get measures to ensure that the sickest elderly were treated in the hospital rather than sent unnecessarily to the hospital. We should get measures that ensured the most ill ME patients specialist health service in their own home when they are too sick to be moved. I visited a low-threshold psychological health service for children and young people in a municipality some time ago. This offer was popular and gave good results. Nevertheless, the rapporteur in this municipality said that this was a good offer, but that she was concerned that they also carried out specialist health services. She did not want to contribute or pay for that. Unfortunately, we have also not received concrete solutions to these and similar challenges through the treatment of the Single European Act on the Cooperation Reform today. Patients are affected by this and now have to wait for a number of new investigations before the individual interventions arrive. We can no longer be familiar with having systems that prevent holistic health care. Søbstad Hospital in Trondheim is still being drawn up as a good example of interaction. The problem is that, despite the funding system, interaction – or, of course, it is good – did not succeed because of it. A number of interaction projects are stranded because there is no consensus about who is going to pay for what. Instead of an interaction reform that places the patient in the centre, we today have an intention of a stepping-up plan for the municipalities, and I would say a savings reform for the hospitals. The municipal minister even called it a decentralisation reform in today's business last autumn. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned with comprehensive health care and with ensuring treatment across levels. In particular, those who are addicted to drugs and those who are mentally ill who come out of treatment in the specialist healthcare service today experience being left without an offer in the municipality. Only when the interaction measures are in place and working will we be able to gradually reduce the cost. We'll get addicts who become drug free, who can get into work. We will get chronically ill and disabled people who increase their quality of life because they get the rehabilitation they need, and who need less medicine and can work more. We'll get more mentally ill people who live in their own homes instead of taking treatment places in hospitals. We all want this, and we hope that this will come into place quickly. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will hurry slowly, as was done with the fixed reform. A number of trial projects need to be carried out without delay, placing the patient at the centre and providing comprehensive services, from prevention and treatment to rehabilitation. Municipal ordering and financing responsibilities for hospital services should be included among pilot projects for new financial instruments. It will ensure decisions close to patients, namely under popular municipal governance and control. This will also remove the game between the hospital and the municipality about who will pay. Municipalities will be able to choose to build their own offer or to send the patient to a hospital. They have to finance both. There have been a number of reforms in Norway in recent years. We are concerned that new reforms should be implemented only when there are opportunities to measure the impact of the reform. The quality assurance of the reform can be ensured through pilot projects. There is a lot of creativity in municipalities and health companies about different pilot projects, large and small, which can be carried out at the same time as they are evaluated. Today, hospitals see their budgets in isolation, and the municipalities see their isolated budgets. It is important to get a model that motivates municipalities to take responsibility. Today it is economically rational to hospitalise patients and leave them there for as long as possible, as many have been involved. We have to stick to what is the main intention of the reform, which is holistic healthcare, across levels. The Christian People's Party is deeply concerned about the development of a reduction in the supply in hospitals without building up correspondingly in the municipalities. We see a development that the closure of daily places is to be replaced by ‘cooperation measures’. The problem and challenge is that this has not been clarified in the communication, neither work-sharing nor the economy. The Christian People's Party believes that local hospitals should maintain their functions related to food supply and emergency preparedness as long as the content of the Cooperation Reform is not clearly defined. This also applies to hospital rehabilitation. We see that pool services – which we have had in the past – are closed down in the hospitals, without this being taken over by the municipalities. It has major consequences for many chronicler groups and others who are in rehabilitation after, for example: operations. Specialised rehabilitation in hospitals also needs to be strengthened. Many patients live with diseases and injuries that are complicated to treat and require a lot of knowledge. This is knowledge we can't expect the municipalities to build up. It still has to happen in the hospitals. From this point of view, there is a need for a national and concrete phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which we have proposed to be presented to the Stortinget in spring 2011. The Christian People's Party supports that municipalities should assume financial responsibility for patients who are ready to print. As experience from Søbstad Hospital in Trondheim shows, the number of hospital cleansings was reduced, there was less need for municipal home services, and survival increased when patients came to Søbstad, compared to traditional hospital treatment. The proposal to deduct the hospital budgets and transfer the money to the municipalities for the costs associated with patients who are ready to print seems to be very little explored. Based on the signals that come from hospitals, they use the means they have, and they also get new tasks. No cuts should be made in the framework of health establishments as a result of this conversion. It's a little bit of the interaction reform that motivates the hospitals. In particular, this transfer of competence to municipalities applies. The responsibility should therefore be clarified and defined. The Christian People's Party believes that municipal health and care services need to be strengthened. This should include, inter alia: be made through the designation of means to better target efforts. We have seen this necessary in other major reforms. This also applies to means of prevention in municipalities. It is not uncommon in a period of construction that this is done. Unit price financing in hospitals poses a risk of prioritisation between profitable and unprofitable patients in hospitals. There is also a need to clarify that input-driven funding is not a priority tool. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the reduction of this proportion to 30 pst. The overall proportion of hospital funding thus increases to 70 pst. This we are pleased that the Government is proposing, and we fully support it. Finally, I would like to refer to the many good and concrete proposals for action by the opposition parties which unfortunately the government parties are going to vote against today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e723	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e726	Now we have heard from the entire opposition that the cooperation reform is dead, and then I wonder what has changed since Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented it. We insist that it will come into force from 2012, as the rapporteur has also made clear. Through this treatment, we have strengthened public health work, with better and more interaction, greater focus on chronicler groups, the division of tasks between specialist health services and primary health services, which means a greater redistribution of resources. ‘Right treatment — in the right place — in a timely manner’ is important. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Bavøy, about the following: Will the right to change patient coordinator, to have free health home elections in the districts and the establishment of senior representatives, which are three of the proposals, give some more treatment to those groups that the Christian People's Party wants to prioritise, such as in rehabilitation, as drug addicts and more hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e735	Then the representative must also read the other proposals and comments in the vote from the opposition parties, because these groups are very well attended to. When it comes to the death of the Interaction Reform, no one has ever used those words here, and I certainly don't want to use them. The problem is that we have not come as far as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promised in his time, namely that we should have an interaction reform in April 2009. We got an interaction message on the day Stortinget broke up last June. In addition, I would like to point out – and it is regrettable – that this Communication states that the Government is to provide further municipal co-financing to assess further cooperation agreements with municipalities and non-governmental organisations. Further instruments relating to patients and the role of patient organisations in patient conduct shall be considered, cooperation legislation shall be further reviewed, tasks assessed to be best managed in the municipality and the tasks to be assessed, follow-up of a contractual system to be followed by the authorities, etc. This was just some of the things that have to be considered further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e744	First, I want to say that I notice that the Christian People's Party agrees with the government party when it concerns input-driven financing, and that's very positive. I have a question about the permanents. We say in our note that it is necessary to review the legislation in order to lay down a clearer national framework to ensure the objectives of the Interaction Reform for municipal health work, in order to ensure more medical work for municipal health work, health stations, hospitals and osb. We also propose that we review the education system and specialist training in this respect. Then I see that the Christian People's Party does not support our proposal for clearer municipal governance. Half of the residents today don't run a medical watch. There are many determinations that don't use seven and a half hours for public medical work. We want to do something with it, not just have more equals. The question is, how does the Christian People's Party explain that they do not support us in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e755	We agree that the decision-makers can be required to use seven and a half hours per. weeks in the municipalities. We've also said that many times before. The problem with what the government proposed is that when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen traveled around the country and promoted his reform, he said that he wanted the tenets to spend up to two days in municipal medicine. It's not in the message. So he really went back on that. Similarly, there is a kind of intention that the decision-makers might in some way save the medical services in the hospitals. What we're afraid of, is that the way it's formulated by the Government, you're going to direct the decision-makers in such a way that they might no longer be so much in their firm offices. We want permanent jobs in nursing homes. The patients who are in hospital today have six to seven diagnoses each. They need the best doctors. They need full-time doctors or, at least, fixed medical positions related to the nursing home, so that they also become part of the professional environment. That is what we want primarily. We already suggested in the care report that you should receive your own training for nursing doctors, which is now coming. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e762	The representative, Mr Bavøy, reiterates the criticism of the other opposition that the reform, as it is today, is too little concrete, too low a commitment, and it has been squandered. There are some of the words that have been used. The actual ratio is that you're clear on the main direction, you're clear on priorities. So it's underlined that we're going to have a follow-up to this with a national health plan, which is going to be related to both drugs, psychiatry and all the sectoral plans that we're proposing here. We're going to get a new law to clarify the place of the municipalities and the tasks of the municipalities. We're also going to have a funding model that's going to anchor this financially. All this will be done in cooperation with the local government sector, so that it is properly anchored when it is to be implemented. What about the process in which the representative Davøy and the Christian People's Party so disagree, and they are so disappointed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e771	I will first refer to my post, where I also said that we agree with the intentions. It is not a single party, I believe, in the Storting that does not agree with the description of reality and the need for what is to happen in the future. But former health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen created very high expectations that we would have a reform very quickly. The problem today – I want to repeat what I have also said from the pulpit – is that we see hospitals reducing their actions. Then we don't talk about economics in and out, but they reduce some measures that they expect municipalities to be ready to take over. Why are municipalities calling me? Why are we being called by rapporteurs? Why do voluntary institutions and others call big business representatives and ask what it's going to be like now? They are looking forward to the debate we are going to have today, because many people believe that from this debate we come out with funding solutions. Of course, they have not read the opinion of the Committee. Some of them may not have read the message well enough either. That is my problem and my concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e782	Norway is a welfare country that we can be proud of, and internationally, the Norwegian health system is ranked among the best in the world. However, healthcare is facing a number of challenges. We experience a significant increase in costs in the specialist health service. In combination with an ageing population, this is not sustainable in the long term. Taking seriously the funding challenges in the healthcare sector is just about taking seriously that we also need to set out in the future to have a good and worthwhile health service in Norway. This is the very core of the message of the Left here today. We follow that up with the proposals that have been distributed in the hall and that I will come back to. Today’s challenges are particularly great in relation to the largest patient groups, which are people with one or more chronic diseases or conditions that many people have experienced today. Forecasts from the Health Directorate indicate that this group will increase, which will impose additional requirements on the health system in terms of quality and quantity. Norway spends more money on health than most other countries. More and more of the appropriations are spent on cost-intensive treatment in hospitals, while the many who most of all need daily care and care are not adequately provided with the help they need. The solutions to these challenges are about priorities, about organisation and a better balance between primary health services and specialist health services than we experience today. In the future, it will be more important to ensure good services at the lowest effective levels of care. Through the Interaction Reform, the Government addresses several of these challenges, but it does not draw the necessary conclusions. The ambition to pursue a health and care policy that is both socio-economically sustainable and changes resource use in the direction that the Left calls for is positive. It is also the new role of municipalities in health and care policy. However, it is difficult to see that the Interaction Reform contains sufficient concrete measures in such a conversion of the course. Municipal co-financing of the specialist health service is one of the main actions of the Government. The left is skeptical to municipal co-financing to dampen the growth of specialist health services, as the municipal structure is today. For the smallest municipalities in particular, it will take a very long time to see any financial savings from investment and the organisation of a new prevention policy in the health sector. Municipal co-financing responsibility is very problematic without the establishment of larger municipalities capable of carrying competent professional environments that can handle such demanding health and care services. Municipalities have only limited ability to influence whether a patient is hospitalised or not. In fact, the municipalities will only have approx. 5 pst. of hospital costs, not 20 pst. as proposed by the Interaction Reform. The left also fears that municipal co-financing responsibility will lead to more bureaucracy outside political control. The interaction reform facilitates tolling on the allocation of costs between small and large municipalities. The health and social sector is already characterised by a significant form fields. The consideration of dignity and good health and care services and local self-government must weigh heavily on this matter. Follow-up to the objectives of the Interaction Reform requires a new municipal structure. The purpose of the Interaction Reform must be precisely to provide treatment, care and care in the human community, so that users are given a better supply and dignity. The proximity of users also increases the ability to activate voluntary auxiliaries through cooperation with the public. The main intervention of the left in health policy, as well as strengthening efforts in some areas, is therefore to implement a new municipal reform for larger municipalities, but where the municipalities themselves are to determine the new municipal borders as far as possible. At the same time, the State must commit itself to transferring public tasks to the new municipal level, so that the proportion increases from today's 40 pst. to 50 pst. or more. Attention should be paid to reducing the number of municipalities in natural and interlinked housing and labour market regions. For the purpose of Norway’s special geography, an absolute minimum threshold cannot be set for the number of inhabitants of the municipalities. Special arrangements need to be made for island municipalities and other municipalities where geography makes community aggregation less topical. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the proposal No. 9 and No 11 from the Left, distributed in the Chamber, to implement a new municipal reform and to review reporting to public authorities in order to reduce the form field. So to the more specific proposals from the Left relating to our proposal for a document that is up for consideration here today. At present, there is not enough incentive to promote decision-makers who want to treat patients in primary health care. The left is concerned that the fixed rates of lifestyle changes, diet, physical activity and smoking deaths have been reduced in the past. Similarly, the rate of talking to relatives of seriously ill people and the rate of conversational therapy with people with mental disorders also apply. This believes that the left is going the opposite way if the objective is to mitigate the use of hospital services. Incentive mechanisms should therefore be developed to help reduce the growth of the specialist health service, and I would therefore like to point to the Left's proposal No. 14, which is distributed in the hall, which rewards decision-makers to treat patients in primary health care. In the light of an increasing need for care in the future, the question of how to take good care of employees in the sector is also raised. The heavy promises are no longer made in the industrial sector, but in the care professions. Many experience occupational injuries, high levels of sick leave and recruitment problems. A number of trials have been carried out with different types of tour sites in the country. An experiment in the municipality of Bergen with the implementation of the so-called North Sea Tour, i.e. staff working somewhat longer periods of corresponding periods of rest have been successfully completed for both employees and users. The results of the test showed, inter alia: reduced damage rates, low sick leave, low turnovers and high applicant rates. For users, it has, among other things: led to less drug use and fewer forced situations. The municipality simply operates the services better and more efficiently. These trials have had such a good effect that incentives should be established to increase the number of such schemes. I would therefore like to draw attention to proposal No. 10, which is distributed. Furthermore, the Left considers that efforts should be made to strengthen the recruitment of nurses to nursing homes and proposes in proposal No. 12 to provide for a facility for the cancellation of student loans for nurses and caregivers wishing to take up primary health care. The government parties will not support this, because – and I quote what is in the setting – ‘can stimulate recruitment in municipal health services in central strata at the expense of small municipalities’. This has to be explained – I don't understand. Another approach to tackling the challenges of heavy lifting and high physical workload is the introduction of new technologies in areas where possible. The health and care sector accounts for about 19 p.m. of public expenditure. Nevertheless, innovation, new solutions and technical aids are not particularly high on the agenda. In Denmark, EUR 3 billion has been allocated to labour-saving technology in the period 2009-2015. Care technologies exist in the Norwegian health and care sector, but the incentives for using such technologies are too poor. This will change the left. Labour-saving technologies are not about replacing human care but about replacing other tasks and giving more time to care. I would therefore like to make the Left's proposal No. 13, on more research into labour-saving technologies. So finally, I want to address the need to strengthen rehabilitation. More and more people are surviving serious injuries and diseases. It's positive, but many of these fall out of work because of the functional consequences of illness and their lack of mastering. Knowledge of functional consequences, organisational needs and opportunities is very important in reducing sick leave and disability and needs to be addressed at all levels of the health and care sector. Increased efforts in rehabilitation and prevention are also important in order to better distribute resources within the healthcare system and ensure that chroniclers, drug addicts and people with disabilities get a better daily life. The left is concerned about the very variable quality found today in terms of rehabilitation in the municipalities. In order to improve the rehabilitation of primary health services, municipalities must be given both responsibility and adequate resources. the proposal for more robust municipalities and cf. the proposal by the Left on municipal responsibility for rehabilitation, proposal No. 15, which is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e826	The President has reason to believe that the representative wants to make some proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e829	Yes. I want to address all the suggestions I have talked about in this article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e834	The representative Borghild Tenden has then taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e839	The left proposes a municipal reform with targets for how many municipalities we're going to have, and the only thing they're going to be allowed to decide is the boundaries. The left is the oldest democratic party, but I don't see much democracy in this, because democracy is when the majority decides. Forced merger versus interaction – I wonder about this. How does Left think that, on the one hand, we are going to threaten the municipalities together, while on the other hand we are going to expect them to do the job of the cooperation reform, which the representative has also referred to, that is important to get done? It is not entirely related, and I wonder, how do you think the interaction should be, through coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e846	The representative has followed very poorly on my post, for coercion I was not talking about at all. What I am disappointed about is that not the red-greens have been a bit tougher about saying that we need to have a little more robust municipalities, that we need stronger municipalities where you have skills, where you have professionals, where you have the opportunity to put into practice all the good intentions that lie in the Cooperation Reform. So I have a challenge for the red-greens: to be a little tougher about putting words on that we need robust municipalities to implement the cooperation reform, as the intention is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e853	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e856	For Health-Norway, there is a very important debate in the United Kingdom today, which is based on the challenges we face: a rapidly changing society in terms of infrastructure, technology, age, housing patterns and the picture of the disease in the population. Health services must keep up with the changes in order to provide patients with good and complete services. This is what the Interaction Reform is all about. I feel that the interaction reform is warmly welcomed – by patients, by health professionals, by local politicians. The basic idea is to achieve a great deal of dissatisfaction — to prevent disease, to detect disease in time, to prevent hospitalisation, to learn to live with a diagnosis and to coordinate services for the benefit of each individual citizen. That also applies here in Stortinget. That is why the Government today has broad support for the main lines of the reform. We do not agree on everything – we have heard that – but we agree on a lot. Health professionals, local politicians and health businesses throughout the country have contributed to the basic idea of the notification. This has been going on over the years – long before the government provided the interaction message. There are many good examples. At Senja in Troms, municipalities decided to provide citizens with better health care by cooperating. They were too small for each other. Together they could lift more. That's why Sigrun Knutsen in Gryllefjord has had one and the same doctor in the last few years. Before the Senja doctor was established, she had in ten years 72 doctors. She could name everyone, but no one could name her, Sigrun has told. In Uppland, we now see good examples of dialysis patients being treated in the vicinity of their home. At the Fenernes they do not travel for many hours every other day to Lillehammer to lie in a dialysis machine. And at Otta, the offer is now expanded in connection with the new local medical centre. In Alta, they have been using telemedicine for specialist consultations since the 1990s, so that many patients do not go to the hospital. Many urban municipalities also have good interaction measures with health businesses, such as: Trondheim municipality and St. Olav's hospital. Despite the systems, the examples have been created more than because of the systems. It is precisely this recognition that requires an interaction reform, as proposed by the Government in St.meld. No 47. The aim of the reform is to further develop and modernise healthcare, so that we are equipped to meet the needs of the population – now and in the future. The opposition has promoted more than 40 different requirements. Many of these will have major economic consequences, without reference to any kind of budgetary recovery. The interaction reform is – in this context – about making the strategic and overall decisions. Health policy must be seen in conjunction with other key social areas, and the difficult balances must be taken into account in the annual treatment of the State budget. I will come back to Stortinget with a concreteisation of the instruments, as the Committee wishes, inter alia. through a new national health and care plan and a new health and care law. In the new Public Health Act, we will clarify the state and local community's responsibility for strengthening the public health perspective. I aim to present both the laws and the plan for the Spring 2011 Stortinget, so that implementation can take place from 2012. I hope that we reach broad agreement in these important processes. Many describe our healthcare as one of the best in Norwegian society. It has its faults and shortcomings, but is still the jewel of Velferds-Norway. But we can't now lean back and say we're satisfied. The next generation of Norway will have an older population — and a different form of disease. If we do not make any changes today, every third youth must choose health and care education to meet the need for one generation. Today, every six are to choose a profession. It goes without saying that such a system will not be sustainable. If we don't change the course now, it might be too late in a few decades. So what's the reform going on? How should we contribute to the maintenance and further development of our health care system? Firstly, disease prevention must be carried out. All our kindergartens, schools, school health services, occupational health services and municipalities do or do not do, affect public health and the picture of illness. Secondly, patients should experience Health-Norway as seamless and seamless. You should get the right help at the right time in the right place. Thirdly, health care should be sustainable and cost-effective. Unnecessary use of expensive hospital services needs to be replaced by better, cheaper and more local services in municipalities. I believe that the Storting's contribution to the setting is a good handshake to achieve these three objectives. A growing-up message alone cannot improve and change everything that is needed in the Norwegian health system, but we have received support to move forward in a number of important areas, and I will mention some examples: The system is a success, but it also needs to be developed further when new tasks are assigned to municipalities. Local medical centres shall be established throughout the country. These should be added to the local hospitals we have today, not as a substitute. The centres must initially be anchored in the municipalities and must have binding agreements with the specialist health service. The highest proportion of growth in healthcare needs to be done locally, not in specialist healthcare. Through the communication and the proposal of the Ministry of Local Affairs for a new joint municipal model, we develop the toolbox for more committed municipal cooperation. The new laws will clarify the overall responsibility of the municipalities for the health and well-being of the population. There is a majority in favour of developing a funding model to encourage municipalities to establish better services near the population — before, instead of, or after treatment in the specialist healthcare service. The cooperation reform is a declaration of trust, but also a challenge for the municipal sector. It is a pleasure to see that the municipalities have accepted the challenge in a positive way. Not least, we see this in the fact that so many municipalities have applied for grants to investigate and establish local medical centres and other cooperation measures. I believe that the cooperation reform can contribute to more coordinated services. This is good news for the rehabilitation area. Rehabilitation after illness and hospitalisation is often complex and requires many to work together. Rehabilitation is important for patients who have undergone, for example: knee and hip operations, but coordinated rehabilitation is crucial for patients with stroke, heart disease, coal, mental disorders and drug dependence. Better coordination is the very cornerstone of the whole reform. Both the specialist health services and the municipalities have important tasks in the area of rehabilitation. That's the way it has to be. At the same time, I imagine that it is especially within the responsibility of the municipalities, that the field needs to be strengthened, as the message also states. Today we have reached a new milestone through Stortinget's treatment. The Government will now present proposals for a new law, financial instrument and a national health and care plan. The proposals shall be consulted, so that all interested parties can make representations before returning to the Stortinget in spring 2011. Although this is a policy reform and will be implemented year by year, 2012 stands as a starting year. I look forward to close and good cooperation with Stortinget on the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e939	The reform is welcomed, said the Council of State, and it was when it came, but I am not so sure that the change is the same today. Now the question is, where is it? There has recently been an open debate between various government councils on the appropriateness of maintaining 20 pst. municipal co-financing of contributions to the specialist health service. As I interpret the Prime Minister in the Question Time as late as last week, the Government is still planning to introduce such co-financing. The question to the Council of State is then: How has the Government planned to ensure that municipal co-financing does not go beyond other services, and, where appropriate, what other services should the municipality have to cut in order to finance contributions to the specialist health service? It's a concrete question, and for once it would be nice to get a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e948	We've been very clear that we're going to work on the funding model. It is important to find a funding model that is good and that also addresses the diversity of municipalities — large and small — and tasks that will lie in the cooperation reform. It is clear that it is important that there are incentives that also support the objective of the reform. Here we have a work that has so far started between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to find the good funding model. We need to be absolutely sure – as the Storting is also concerned about – that we are meeting well, in order to meet the needs of the patients who are going to use the healthcare system, but also for the municipalities, who have large and responsible tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e955	The implementation of a major health reform requires long-term work, a work that goes beyond several years, and not least, in normal circumstances, it would also require a clear economic priority. In order to achieve this, it has often been an advantage for a Council of State to have a broad consensus in the Great Britain on work, not least in view of the internal discussion in the Government on prioritising this. That is what we see when we look at the escalation plan for the elderly, we saw it in the kindergarten agreement, we have seen it in the climate agreement – in a number of areas. The Council of State expressed a clear willingness to reach a political agreement on the cooperation reform in Stortinget, but this was rejected in cash when it came to the negotiating table. What was the reason why the Council of State did not give the health fraction of the Storting large enough powers to actually enter into real negotiations in order to achieve a large, broad settlement on such an important matter, if this is as important as the Council of State stated in its statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e962	I very much agree with the representative, Höie, that it is important to get broad consensus. But I actually feel that there is quite a broad consensus in the Storting on the main lines of the Cooperation Reform. At this stage, however, this is a policy reform. It's not the one that is going to finance every smallest challenge that we have in Health-Norway. We will return to that in the context of the new health and care plan and the legislative work, which is very important. Then there will be plenty of opportunity to address individual issues, both what the detailed tasks should be, where the responsibility should be, and in the case of the specialist health service. But when there are 40 individual proposals without interference from the opposition, which the opposition very well knows belongs to in the budget debate year after year, it won't be so natural for our representatives on the Stortinget to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e969	We have had many earlier settlements in this Chamber on reforms, which have come in the form of an agreement to spend many billions over a certain number of years, for example. in the context of the Preservation Plan for Mental Health. I expect the government to believe that such a major reform will not cost and increase expenditure. But what is my question is: What predictability will there be for patients, personnel, municipalities, hospitals – non-governmental organisations and other private individuals, for that matter – if it is to be such that funds and measures are to come into each state budget? We have examples from the Stoltenberg government earlier on messages that have been presented in this room, where this was also the case. Let me mention one, the dental reform, where there were a number of good actions that we supported. However, in the government budgets thereafter, there has been no significant measure or proposal or money for the dental report. The problem is that this does not create predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e976	I want to repeat that I feel that there is a very large consensus about the challenges in Health-Norway, and about what direction you have to go in. What's being treated in Stortinget today is exactly the direction. This must be followed up, both in detail in a health and care plan to become a more operational tool, and in a new health and care law, which must not least address the division of labour between primary health services and specialist health services. It's not every small challenge we're dealing with today. That's the big direction, which allows the government to keep working. This case has now been in Stortinget until the end of April. Now, with the background of what has been decided in the Storting, the government can continue to work to achieve the momentum that has been there all along, namely that we are going to start in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e983	All over the country, hospitals are being rehomed. Six local hospitals have recently closed down, and six more are likely to fall in the near future. And then the interaction reform points out that there are 145,000 laydays with ready-to-write patients in our hospitals, and we are facing demographic developments with many more elderly people. Does the Council of State really believe that the Government's plans and framework for health home construction will be sufficient to meet the needs of municipalities for the provision of health and care places during the coming period? Or could the Council of State expect to take another look at the Advance Party's alternative state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e990	It is a clear premise that municipalities should assume responsibility for the ready-to-print patients from 2012. It is at least a very specific matter that is contained in the message. Of course, municipalities must be able to take that responsibility, even in the form of an economy. That is precisely why we are working on investigations to see how municipalities should be able to do that job financially. We have a system of grants for nursing homes, which the representative knows very well, and the municipalities have applied for grants to expand several nursing homes. I trust that the municipalities will do the same, because many of these patients will of course go to hospital. Therefore, there must also be places ready for them in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e997	The left agrees with the Government that it is positive that municipalities should have new roles and more tasks – treatment as close as possible to the user. But I have two questions – one is: how does the Council of State think this should happen without getting bigger and more ‘robust’ municipalities, which I talked about in my article, and with a competent professional environment? My other question is: does the Council of State see that there could be an advantage with larger and fewer municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1006	I think – with all due respect – that if we were to wait to introduce the cooperation reform until we had implemented a municipal reform, we would have had to wait a very long time. One would like to add up to a voluntary community merger — not a coercion in this context. I have also not seen that the Left Party has done so when they have been in government. We have far too much respect for local democracy. Municipalities need to cooperate if they are to be able to solve complex tasks. There's going to be a difference between what large and small municipalities have the opportunity to solve. The geography also makes it impossible for all municipalities to join each other in cooperation, so here we have to find local solutions that can benefit all municipalities. This is precisely why we also need that time for further investigation, to see how this can best be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1013	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1017	By the last century C.E., every tenth child died before it had reached its year. The major ‘population’ diseases are tuberculosis, hunger and poverty. Together with prosperity in Norway, we have a new form of disease. These include cancer, heart disease, lung disease with coal and diabetes. There are diseases that reflect both the way we live today and the way we live longer. Psychiatric disorders are also growing, and so are people who live with chronic pain. Fortunately, today we have very low infant mortality. We live longer, and we have a ripple development that still provides new treatment opportunities. The health budget has been in steady and strong development, as has the number of people working in the sector. The number of patients treated has increased sharply. Of course, the cooperation reform we are discussing today is not an end in itself. It is an instrument to ensure better health for the population, to ensure that people have access to the best treatment wherever they live in the country, and to ensure that we spend the money properly, so that our healthcare system can be sustainable over time – so that the next generation will also receive the treatment you need when you need it, regardless of what you earn or where you live. The challenges of health care are discussed in all countries we can compare with, and it is a relevant question which countries we should compare with. At the national meeting of the Progress Party last weekend, I registered that progress party president Siv Jensen compared the Norwegian health service with what was held in the Soviet Union. I just want to say that that comparison is an insult to all those people who every day make a fantastic effort in the Norwegian health care system, who very much works well, which I record as an overall health committee agreeing on. It's not often when I hear Right Jan Tore Sanner on the radio, that I immediately agree with what he says. But when I heard him yesterday, I totally agreed with him. I don't think most people in Norway recognize themselves in the black paint of Norwegian health care. At the same time, we have to recognise that there is no perfect health service in the world, nor Norwegian. Although the World Health Organization believes that we in Norway have one of the world's best health services, we should reach out for new goals. We have defects and deficiencies in our system, and the various parts of the healthcare system interact too poorly. Every year, our healthcare system gets about one-fifth of the state budget. In the years to come, we have to be prepared to use even more. At the same time, we also have to focus on getting more health out of the heads we use. But the Soviet comparison of our health care system by the Progress Party and Siv Jensen is limping in all areas. In Norway, we can expect to live until we're 80 years old, so we're at the top of the world. In the Soviet Union, life expectancy was shorter between 15 and 20 years. The most important reason for this was not primarily the health service in the Soviet Union, with all its faults and shortcomings, but it was the alcohol policy of the Soviet Union. People drank quite in their hearts. And here we find a comparison between the Soviet Union and the Progress Party that is far more relevant. Indeed, the alcohol policy of the Advance Party has clear similarities with that of the Soviet Union. They want to put down the wine monopoly and let anyone who wants to sell alcohol do it almost on every street corner. The propulsion batch will mix alcohol and traffic by allowing the refuelling stations to sell spirits, and the propulsion batch will eliminate alcohol charges and leave bars and pubs open 24 hours a day. In his speech earlier today, the representative Per Arne Olsen highlighted the importance of prevention. But the alcohol policy of the Advance Party is the opposite of preventing; it is a massive effort on poorer health. And the paradox continues: the Progress Party believes that society should interfere as much as possible with alcohol policy, but the bill for increased health expenditure should be taken by the community. And not enough – at the same time, you have to give massive tax reliefs of 20 to 25 billion dollars a year, which is equivalent to an entire hospital budget during a major period. As individuals and as a society, it is important to keep a certain level of control over how much we drink. And for the record, there's a lot of food in a bottle of red wine. After a glass of red wine, you may even recognize that we live in a good country, and that health care in most areas works well, although much needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1040	When the Labour Party's parliamentary leader spends a considerable part of his speaking time in Stortinget talking about the Progress Party – erroneous, correct – instead of talking about the Cooperation Reform, it tells me how little it has. I have been following this debate from the office, while getting the news of the agreement between Norway and Russia on the divider line – which I think is very good. What I've registered is that all the figures from the red-green parties have been very concerned about setting up the challenges we face in Health-Norway, but none of them have been able to fill the toolbox. It is essentially the subject of the debate on the reform of cooperation. The Health Minister said that there is a broad consensus on the challenges. Yeah, that's enough. But there is definitely no broad agreement on the tool, on the instruments. That's because the red-green parts don't have tools at all, so the opposition has managed to gather around 42 instruments. What is at least easy to establish is that the reform that the Stortninget is dealing with today will change. It will be filled with content, and it will get a different direction if there is a government change in 2013 – and I'm very happy about that, because that's what people out there expect. They expect us to fill the cooperation reform with a content that puts people ahead of the systems. When I spoke in my national meeting about the Soviet Union, it is not right that it was a direct comparison with the entire Norwegian health system. What I said directly was that health cows – there are 260 000 people in Norwegian health cows – can be compared with systems, with regimes that doubt public monopolies, and that are not at all interested in letting go of diversity to ensure that patients get into focus. It should be a paradox. I even recorded that there was a representative from the red-green parties who tried to talk with a little bit of peace that the bourgeois parties had a religious relationship with competition. Well, the religious relationship lies in the Government’s total aversion to diversity and competition – which affects patients. Today we have received news that pedophiles who themselves want to receive treatment to avoid repeating this type of abuse have to stand in line for two years in order to get treatment for this quite serious disorder. The treatment time is tripled under the red-green government, and it's not hard to do anything about it if you want. But when you listen to the answers that come from the Ministry of Health, that's the total discharge. It is almost the case that it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Health that pedophiles are not treated in the Norwegian health service. They owe it to the directorate, they owe it to the bureaucracy, but the reality is very simple: it's about granting adequate funds, and it's about putting people ahead of the systems. That's what this is about, and it's possible to do something about it. But in this case, it will be the most innocent people in our society, namely the children, who are congested because you don't solve this very serious health care problem, along with a number of other challenges we face. I have to say that the process of dealing with this reform has been incredible. It's been very strange. This could be the most important health reform in a long time. It could become a reform that brought together broad consensus in the Storting, where we kicked from and went on with new positive instruments that would solve some of the problems we are facing. Instead, it has ended up becoming a large stomach area due to a lack of action. It's kind of just hanging out with the story. The then Health Minister, Brustad, had considerable experience. What we remember from her time is increased health cows, growing problems in the care of the elderly, problems in the care of the russian, a very strange handling of the new hospital in connection with the Radium hospital at Montebello, etc. etc. Then Bjarne Håkon Hanssen came into the department more like a fresh breath. He was going to clean up, he was going to arrange for interaction, he was going to make sure that patients got a better offer, and everything he promised, mouthed out in the Cooperation Reform. No matter how poor the care of the elderly was, regardless of the problems in the care of the nursing care, regardless of the health cows and waiting times, the response to the Bjarne Håkon Hanssen Cooperation Reform was. That's what we've heard repeatedly. And with embarrassing precision, the Workers' Party and the government parties used this for everything it was worth, through the last big game of election. Everything would be fine just to get the interaction reform started. But now we see the result. There was nothing but an election document for the Workers' Party and the government parties, and I'd like to tip that current consultant Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is a little disappointed that it has ended up in such a belly pad. And you have had the opportunity to fill the reform with content. It's been completely possible. There has been a very negotiating opposition that has put forward proposals on the table, which has been interested in dialogue and negotiations with the government parties, but there has been mouse silence from the government parties on this issue. The worst of all – there I must say that I almost didn't believe my own ears – was when the government and the government parties answered the invitation from the opposition that they couldn't even discuss this, because this costs money! It tells me what this reform is really about. It is not a reform to the benefit of individuals who are in line in different parts of the healthcare system. This is austerity reform, nothing less. I think we all agree to look for tools that can lead to a better use of people's tax money in the health care system as well. That's very good. But I think there are few examples in history that a reform does not cost money initially. It costs money to implement reforms, and then you have to be willing to use them. So for me, this case is really about two perfectly obvious contradictions. It's about whether to change the system for the sake of the system, as I see it, is the red-green profile of this, or whether to change the system for the sake of individuals, as I see it, is the opposition's overall view of this. I'm very happy that we agree with the opposition, because that means that we have a strong document as the basis for the election campaign we're going to enter into, and that can at least give hope to many of those who have been very disappointed. I want to dedicate a few words to that too. Many health workers, around the country, had very great hopes for the results, for the concrete content to be filled with the interaction reform. I think a lot of them are disappointed today, because they see that the tools are missing. I think I would recommend them to go thoroughly through the 42 opposition proposals, because at some point it will be reality, and at some point it will lead to individuals getting ahead of the systems, and that we can gradually phase out the queues. Then I have registered that the head of the Center Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, has raised the tab very high when it comes to the fight to preserve the local hospitals. Strangely enough, I see from this setting that the government parties believe that a local hospital definitely does not have to look like a local hospital elsewhere. What they're really saying is, what functions are inside the hospital, is not important, what's important, is the building. But a building without content can be very difficult to characterize as a fully-fledged hospital offer in District Norway. There's the main challenge of the government, it's dry to start defining what's a local hospital, because it'll help to determine whether you feel safe about the health service where you live or whether you don't. I understand that there is a lot of dissatisfaction with this reform. Basically, it's stone dead. Basically, it's in a drawer, and there it can really be very well until we've had a government shift, so that the opposition can implement its constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1068	A key point of the Interaction Reform is to prevent more to repair less. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will be fully in line with such an objective. We are good at emergency medicine in Norway, and fortunately we are saving more and more people from heart attacks, strokes and traffic accidents. Most people get good help to survive, but when the blue lights are turned off, there are too many who get too little help to live on and to master everyday life. There is good evidence from both the SINTEF and the Health Inspectorate that the training offer fails in many stages. This means lost opportunities for many people who become unnecessarily dependent on relief services and social security benefits. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will help patients to master their everyday life and work. This is a good investment in quality of life for many, while at the same time reducing the need for health care and social security benefits is a good social investment. More than 45 organisations believe that the next major health policy effort must be on rehabilitation. This includes patient organisations such as the Organisation for the Common Organisation of Disabilities, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease and the Cancer Association. Since 2007, they've been fighting for breakthroughs, and they've been acting countless times outside the Storting. As usual, government parties can talk a lot about their good intentions about a bet on rehabilitation. But a red-green government that has had majority power for five years is past the stage where they can impress with talk. In fact, we expect the Government to deliver results. The reality is that the government parties have not just broken their promises of a bet on rehabilitation. They run a policy that weakens the training provision. The provision of pooling and physiotherapy is being put down throughout the country, including in Levanger, Oslo, Røros and Kristiansund. Training institutions in Finnmark, Akershus and Hedmark must permit employees. These employees must visit Nav themselves, instead of helping others out of the Nav queue. Patients and physiotherapists are constantly writing enquiries about increasing waiting times and the closure of offers as a result of the Government’s change in the financing arrangement. The Government Parties have twice voted in favour of a proposal from the Right on an escalation plan for rehabilitation. In the last four years, they have voted against the Right's proposal to earmark funds for this initiative. So the political governance of health companies for which the Center Party claims to be in favour is in line when it really applies. In fact, when government parties claim that they do not want to earmark funds for priority areas, they say that health businesses have to decide which patients and health services are to be given priority. The right-wing believe that the elected representatives should direct the priorities of healthcare, and this is not just what we say to run symbol policies. We have actually prioritised rehabilitation with approx. two billion earmarked DKK in our alternative budgets in the last few years, and thus clearly announced that health care businesses should give priority to training. Although a commitment to rehabilitation would clearly be in line with the objectives of the Cooperation Reform, the government parties once again vote down proposals from the Right and the other opposition parties on a bet in this area. Government parties say it's too expensive to bet on rehabilitation. They should ask themselves what it costs in the loss of quality of life and the cost of health care and social security benefits when patients lose the opportunity to train after an accident or in the event of a disability. If we are to succeed in the Interaction Reform, we must invest in a training offer that will in the long run bring benefits in terms of better health for patients. Today, the Rehabilitation Action shuts down its operations, in great disappointment at the lack of impact on the government parties. Right-wing laws to continue fighting for training to be a field of activity until the Government delivers concrete results in this area. Finally, I would like to point out that it is an incredible paradox that the government parties were unable to interact with the opposition on the Stortinget on the Reform of Cooperation. They were not even willing to discuss our proposal for a commitment to rehabilitation. So let's hope that healthcare is less arrogant, and that they succeed better in cooperating for the benefit of patients than the government parties are capable of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1087	I believe this is an important day simply because the Storting agrees on situation descriptions and many important elements for the future. Why the Reform of Cooperation? Yes, simply because too many people get a fragmented offer today. It's unexplained responsibilities. This leads to too poor a quality at too high a price. At the same time, we're dependent on meeting the demography ahead. We simply have to deal with the costs of those changes. In practice, this means more tasks for municipalities and a much more potent first line offer. This makes sense in several ways. Firstly, it will lead to a more complete health service where people live, within, for example: Rehabilitation, in the context of major lifestyle diseases, in simple matters such as the treatment of diabetes. Exciting side effects give us opportunities for exciting jobs many more places than today. I also want to bring forward a general scepticism to the state as a direct service provider. At least the times it is tested, you can see that we have major problems dealing with cost challenges. This reform is also a good example of the dynamics of development in and of the welfare society. This is a reform that is born locally, in municipalities and in hospitals where people work to do things better and in a better way every day. My own municipality, Trondheim, has been working on this show together with St. Olav's Hospital for many, many years. There have been very good results, as the Council of State also drew up. In short, there are many who have gained better quality of life and longer life at a lower price. This is important if we are to strive for and introduce everywhere in the country, and that it is made available to everyone. We have received criticism that is in time – that there is too little happening. The Nav reform, in order to refer to another reform, was also implemented quickly and in part with a background in good results locally. I would like to say that it is easy to achieve good results with enthusiastic employees who implement something that is completely new. Something else is when this is to be implemented across the country. The experience of the Nav reform may highlight the need to take sufficient time to get this done properly. The government's schedule is therefore wise. Laila Davøy presented the funding as crucial. I fully agree with that. We have to have a system that provides the right incentives to get the right treatment in the right place. This has different experiences in different countries. And since this is so crucial, it is also right to use the time needed to put the right decisions into place on such an important part of the reform. Some, and especially the Left, have made this a debate on the municipal structure. I'd like to warn you about that. On the contrary, the focus must be on content. First, it's a derailment, and second, we have to have a system that takes into account that there are big differences in this country. We have a geography that makes you have to deal with big differences in the size of municipalities. If there's one thing that's still going on about the municipal structure in general, it's changing, but it's happening over time. Today, the government has received broad coverage for the thinking and for the direction of the Cooperation Reform. This isn't the result, but it's an important step on the way. Spring 2011 is the end point of many of the important processes and debates that the opposition has developed here today. The objective of gradual implementation from 2012 is set. The level of ambition is fixed. I want to end by saying that while the opposition is concerned about declaring the reform dead, as the representative Jensen did, and saying that the majority is paralysed, we are busy doing real work on one of the most important reforms of our time. I think that's good in an election campaign, and I think it's underestimating the voters if you bet on one-sided black paint, say no tolls, say no to property taxes, and maintain reasonable spirits as the most important election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1110	Today’s reporting of health abuse concerns the facility for the future health policy on increased health care in municipalities, on increased prevention and better coordinated services and patient pathways, and that no one should lie unnecessarily in hospitals. We should primarily use society's resources, the economic and human resources, today and in the future, more rationally. Or said in a word that I like: we're going to make things smarter through a reform that everyone agrees on is needed. At least I thought everyone agreed. I went to the District Medical Center at Ottawa on Friday. The municipality has spent $96 million. kr to build an amazing center there. What happened in the collection that was up there just testifies to the fact that the hospital sector and the municipality are well in progress with a lot of exciting collaboration. The zeal is very great, and we're going to organize so that you can get on well. We red-green have listened, which should actually also be part of the purpose of, for example, the Storting committee hearings. And not only have we listened, but we have actually taken into account good arguments, not least put forward by the KS, which means that we will ensure quality possible models of economic incentives. In fact, an overall committee is behind the comment on such quality assurance. At the same time, a very marine-satisfied opposition criticizes us red-green so that there is almost nothing left of the reform. That's what I think is going to be something real. Municipal obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print, and associated financial transfers to the municipalities, we're going to end up now. I would like to stress the importance of clear definitions of the term ‘depreciation ready’ and the fact that contractual works related to such a scheme will be put in place. The financial transfers to municipalities must also be of the correct and reasonable size. At the same time, the municipal sector must be able to cope with increased responsibilities through free revenues — and/or earmarked funds — in addition to the needs of demographic development. So possible incentive models will be reviewed more closely, and in turn, as explained by the Council of State, issues will be dealt with here in the Grand Duchy, and in sum provide the overall framework for the reform of economic, legal and organisational. We just have to do it properly. The reform involves significant change, but there must be a safe change, and in particular a safe change for patients, users, so that they feel confident that we will have the phase-in period to go harmoniously apart. Therefore, it is also important that incentives that we choose to use, in addition to the financial transfers, are good and will work as intended. It assumes that they are mainly related to the conditions of the municipalities having a reasonable opportunity to influence, and so that it also pays off financially to bet and work wisely, that there is some fairness between the municipalities and that it does not expose the municipalities to inappropriate financial risk. Then I think in particular of the smallest municipalities that naturally will be particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in needs. And I want to add that healthcare companies also need predictability in order to plan and use resources well. It is true that security and predictability usually provide the best climate for creative cooperation solutions between actors that we expect and depend entirely on masters of good interaction. There is extensive municipal cooperation in Norway in many areas of society today, and this cooperation will have new dimensions. Most municipalities need to find partners, because most municipalities are of a size that requires close cooperation with good neighbours in order to meet increased responsibilities related to important health tasks, including: local medical centres and more specialised services. The better municipalities will find common solutions, the more health services and services they will be able to contribute to providing their population — close. And the more motivating it will be for the specialist health service to cooperate with the municipalities on decentralised services. The reform can be implemented with today's municipal structure, but I have no objection if someone is now considering joining up – as one of the options for good organisational models locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1130	For over four years, the government has pointed out that almost all the problems that have arisen in the healthcare system were to be solved through the Interaction Reform, and high expectations were created in patients, health workers, administration and politicians alike. We remember that when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented the big message, the disappointment was great. The notification gave a good description of the current situation and the problems the health care system is struggling with, but proposals for solutions were almost absent. Several key actors, such as: The Medical Association, has pointed out that the landfill treatment of St.meld. No 47 had to lead to much more concrete action. It was also stressed by the government parties that it was desirable to bring together the broadest possible political environment behind the reform and measures. But what's going on? The opposition has managed to gather around a common platform of 42 points, on which we wanted to negotiate with the government parties. All three parties have been willing to celebrate their positions in order to get a health care system that focuses on individuals. The government parties were almost furthest and rejected the proposals. This becomes too expensive, said the Minister of Health, and threw the cards before she went to Thorbjørnrud and the Government's budget conference. This is too concrete, we heard from the government parties. Then I ask myself, what are the government parties really going to do? When should concrete measures be put on the table to help improve health? In Norway, we have had too fragmented health services, both organisationally and financially, for many years. There has been talk about the need for cross-disciplinary cooperation for a number of years. There's been talk of patients falling between two chairs, swing door spacers and patients who become throwing balls in the system. I've experienced that there's been talk about this ever since the 1970s. In the 1980s, we had a series of investigations on these issues. The 1990s and the first decade of this millennium have been the signs of the reforms. The school reforms in 1994 and 1997 are well known, and it is claimed that this is what separates Norwegian school from, for example. the Finnish. We can't exactly boast that the quality of Norwegian education has improved as a result of these reforms. The health sector has also been reformed. We have had the reform of health law, the reform of the law, the reform of health enterprises, the reform of the drugs industry, and now, therefore, the reform of cooperation. Reforms are known from far back in human history. Gaius Gracchus used it in 123 B.C.E. conscious reforms in its divided and domineering tactics. We have heard what is claimed to be a quote from Gaius Petronius in 66 B.C.E. We trained hard, but every time we started getting groups that worked, we were going to reorganize. What a fantastic method of reorganization is to create an illusion of progress, while what is actually achieved is chaos, inefficiency and demoralization. I'm not going to vouch for the authenticity of this quote, but I have to say that I've had it a little bit in the back of my mind when we've dealt with the Cooperation Reform. I learned once that whoever does not know where he is and where he will not find the way there either. That's why I'm startled when we from the research team find out that we have far too bad data on what our health care system delivers. They say it would be almost impossible to do follow-up research on the implementation of the cooperation reform if a comprehensive data collection of where we stand today is not immediately initiated. It should be an essential cross-section of thought for most people in this room. We know that the demand for healthcare is increasing every year. There are growing expectations in the population about the availability and quality of healthcare. We have a demographic development with an increasing number of older people – many of them with several different diagnoses. Hospitals can do more and more. New treatment methods and drugs often have high costs. The migration requirements in the health sector are comprehensive. We have received some rights laws for patients, but we see constant violations of both patient rights laws, quality regulations, internal control regulations and waiting list guarantees. There are major health differences in this country, both in primary and specialist healthcare. I'd say it's a long way to go to John Alvheim's king's idea of bringing Health-Norway together into one health realm. Every year, the budget for the Norwegian health care system is close to NOK 200 billion. In addition, patients pay a number of promissory notes, and health care providers have to pay 85 pst. of his social security. But do we really know what we get for the money? Do we know enough about the quality of services? Do we know if the measures we put in are working as intended? I would say: No, the Storting has no control over it! In the 1970s, Minister of Church and Education Bjartmar Gjerde said that Norway had the best school in the world. It was before we got international studies, like PISA and TIMSS, that showed us something else. Similarly, I feel that it is in the health care system. Quality should be much more focused than today. Quality should be a significant management parameter. Does the political environment want to bet on quality? I am a little insecure, because when the Progress Party has made proposals for certification and the introduction of a number of quality indicators, the other batches vote against. Often we learn that it is impossible to measure quality in care and care. With all due respect, it must be based on total ignorance or a lack of willingness to bring the actual conditions to light. We could start by getting feedback on the extent to which existing rights laws and regulations are followed. There would be useful signals to the granting authority, a good follow-up to the non-conformity management process and a step in an important quality improvement process. I also assume that such reports can be made widely known through the Internet pages of the institutions or municipalities, so that most people can also get a glimpse of the quality of different institutions that have an almost monopoly on providing healthcare. One of the most important steps to be taken by the Interaction Reform is to focus on preventive health work. Do we know what prevention works for politicians? I have noticed that both the Medical Association and the research community say there is far too little evidence-based research in this area. Nevertheless, I fear that we may have a situation where any project claiming to have a health prevention effect can be considered when public funds are now to be distributed. It is in, it is politically correct, and it is in line with the intentions of the Cooperation Reform, so it is clear. I am also very surprised that some people think they can reduce the number of hospitalisations with associated savings as early as 2012, through prevention work that is about to start. Interaction has now become a sort of motto, not least in the light of all the expectations that have been created, and there are many who have thought: ‘What’s in it for us?’ We all agree that disciplines, administrative areas or ownership should not get in the way of good patient treatment. But do we have enough knowledge of what kind of interaction works for the patient? I can't see that we have a lot of evidence on that particular area. Should it not be knowledge that underlies the changes we are making, or is it just ‘doing and running’ pending the next reform? It is said that the cooperation reform should not be a community reform and not a savings reform. Most people understand that there is a difference between the municipality of Utsira and the municipality of Oslo. The Storting Report also points out that there is some critical mass needed to establish day-to-day sites that include observation, investigation, post-treatment and relieving treatment. It is proposed that such a population base be established by voluntary action in the municipality of Norway. I understand that with the Central Party in government, this is the government's only dangerous path, but then I think this will take a long time. When it is emphasised that the reform is not a savings reform, I doubt it. I have noticed that the favourite expression of Gro Harlem Brundtland is used, namely that the cooperation reform is to ensure sustainable development. Furthermore, it is said that hospitals will get a little less, which means that the growth should be slowed down. The message focuses on patients who are ready to print. The department has a fine calculation that tells us that we have ready-to-print patients in hospitals, equivalent to about 145,000 laydays, at a daily price of NOK 5000. In total, it's 725 million. kr per. years. This is set up against a sick home space that on average costs NOK 1575 per person. 24 hours, i.e. a total cost of 220 million. kr. Someone in the department will quickly find a calculator and say that here we can save 505 million. kr. But with all due respect: if there are such imaginative assessments that lie behind it, there is reason to be alarmed. The opposition believes that there is reason to look closely at the estimates to be used for patients who are ready to print, and we expect a case back to the Stortning that clarifies the distribution effect and the consequences for health businesses. However, it is agreed that the responsibility for the ready-to-print patients will be added to the municipalities from 2012. There is a broad consensus that municipalities should be able to undertake larger and new tasks. But we know that it will take time to build up such an offer in the municipal sector. It will have an economic impact over a period of time and the length of that period will depend on the speed with which the municipalities are able to gather to provide sufficient population base to build up good quality services. This means that the State – the Biggest – must be willing to provide additional financial resources in this transition phase. It will also take time for municipalities to acquire sufficient skills. This is where continuing education and training become central. This takes time, and it costs money. Among other things, we point out: that the 2015 Competence Plan needs to be amended and strengthened in order to take account of the consequences of this reform. We need to reverse the trend of nursing homes. It is necessary to invest in the further development and professional strengthening of nursing homes, and the development of local medical centres must not delay the strengthening of nursing homes. The promotion party fears that old sick and chroniclers can become losers in a transition phase where hospital services are to be reduced and municipal services are to be built up. Such a development we will take a great distance from. These patient groups are to be guaranteed specialist health services when they need it, and we will follow closely that they get it. The setting-up of an elderly representative system is also important in this context. We also want the elderly to have free sick home choices across the municipal borders. The Progress Party would like us to gather all the funding on the government's hand and that the money came through an estimate when the need was there, just like for example. with sickness benefits. At that time, those working in the sector could concentrate on providing a professionally good health service of good and proper quality at the right level of treatment for the benefit of patients. However, I note that it is a long way to go, but at the same time I see that the agreement on which the opposition parties have agreed is a long step in the right direction to put the individual in focus. It's just so sad that the government parties won't even discuss these points with us. I believe this shows a clear lack of will and ability to interact.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1183	Interaction problems both between levels of administration, within the healthcare system and between different parts of the healthcare system and the social system are well-known challenges that we have had to deal with for a long time. There's been a lot of attempts to do something about it. In the case of internal interaction e.g. In hospitals, an important reform was adopted in the mid-1990s with a patient-treatment doctor, a right that we all know with our hands on the heart now little is being carried out internally in hospitals. In any case, I think the line of patients who do not know that they have been appointed, or have not been appointed, a patient-treating doctor to coordinate the rest of the services around them is quite long. Therefore, it is important to say that more interaction is needed not only between the levels of government, but internal health services are needed, internal needs are needed in the different institutions, and there are many different levels of need. So the question is: will this reform as it is now contribute to better interaction? I think we can't say with our hand on the heart that we know today. For what was an indication of a reform of the Single European Act that came about, has been cancelled for the most important reform approaches. There is a direction in this position today that there is a large majority behind it, but the concreteisation is deficient and creates a stop outside, I think, in the development of better interaction. When this big message was presented, Jens Stoltenberg and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in the newspaper: ‘More than one person before us has concluded that interaction is the core problem in Norwegian healthcare. The difference is that this government is proposing economic and legal solutions that can lead to lasting changes in which it fails.» As late as January, the Minister of Health said at a conference in Hordaland that without a municipal co-financing, no reform. Today, the Stortinget does not adopt a municipal co-financing scheme, at least not a sketch or other for what it should be. So if we use the Minister of Health's own words, or his own plan, from the January meeting, it's not a reform. Now we think that it's wise to think about this area again, but one should have made it clear in the time of this big business, to come up with clearer lines, so that the local politicians knew what to do with it. The opposition has done it. They have said something about the direction in which the cooperation reform is going to develop. It shall be provided for in agreements between a group of municipalities in a natural area of health establishments, with earmarked funds. So with our approach, the municipalities and health companies would have known what they had to do with the framework conditions in the years that came, in a significant area, and you could start with it. With the arrangements of the Government, we are now entering a vacuum phase. That vacuum phase is quite dangerous, because the enthusiasm for building new offers has been great. But I've been so many places and I've seen how enthusiasm is currently confusing because the promises made, both in the election campaign, by former health ministers and by other workers' party politicians and red-green politicians, were not followed up in the budget this year with enough funds to fulfill trial projects, and do not have a future correction. So let's do one example. In Gudbrandsdalen, the age of psychiatric services has been better than that common in Norway for many years. But that's good. There should be more of it. The heavy psychiatric patients through Klöverhagen have been given an opportunity to make a good offer. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen told the workers' party rapporteur and the management of the Sanitätsföreningen that this was a very good offer, this fits into the interaction – they left the operation, they were going to do it. Now it's likely to be lowered with the reason that this is a better offer than the rest of the county, so we think we're going to send people from all over the north in the Gudbrand valley to Gjøvik to get treatment, which means much longer distance, and less is going to get an offer. If you build up such offers, it's more difficult to rebuild them, because today there's a trade union environment. What's the challenge of the debate we have today may not be that we disagree in the direction, but we obviously have quite different instruments, and we obviously have a government that doesn't know where to go. If the opposition's proposals are too expensive, then there is a clear signal that the proposals we have proposed here are not proposals that the red-green parties intend to implement. It will come as a surprise to many patients, their organisations and others who have heard red-green promises in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1207	The cooperation reform is comprehensive and, in my view, quite concrete. One of the fields in which we have to succeed, and with which much work needs to be done, is competence. According to the SSB/Hels v., it is estimated that 95 000-135 000 new annual works will be needed by 2030, while the supply will be only 100 000. So the question is, how are we going to get the rest? Recruitment will be a critical factor in the success of this reform. We therefore need to do more things, which the Cooperation Reform also outlines. There must be more hands at work in care and care, but preferably hands with competence. Having competence to treat all the complex medical diagnoses that exist, on average, has a sick home spaced six to seven diagnoses, and treating early excretory patients from hospitals and having more to treat in hospital or at home, where there were previously grounds for hospitalisation — all this requires knowledge. Terminal care will also be an important part of the challenge because the increase in the incidence of cancer will continue. This means that education needs to be changed and that needs to be rethinked. Professional development and research must be strengthened, as must leadership skills. The 2015 Competence Plan will help to educate more people, and it should be developed to achieve the objectives of the reform. We need long-term education capacity plans and a plan for how we, for example. shall allocate the disciplines and training courses. We need to look at the new measures in the Competitiveness Pact to see if one can do more to help achieve the objectives. We have several plans to develop skills, such as: within dementia, where there is also an increase in the frequency of the population. In Demenplan 2015, competence building is an important part. When we were with the Nordic Council welfare committee at Ullevål, at the so-called memory clinic, we were told that per. Today, there were 8 000 health workers who had or were in the process of training in Dementia ABC. It's great, and it has to go on. Competence building must also take into account that we are a multicultural society, and not least that we have a Sami population. It requires diversity of competences. It is important that all of these meet in the right and best possible way. This is also mentioned in particular in the setting of the Cooperation Reform. We need more prevention into the educational cycle, so that the way of thinking permeates what we want with the Interaction Reform, namely prevention rather than repair. Proper treatment at the right time and at the right place — as BEON principle, which radiates more heat than the former LEON principle. Best in front of the lowest! There are today many unskilled people in municipal health services who are all doing a great job. They also deserve to update their skills — for their own benefit, but not least for the benefit of the patient they are going to be involved in. I also believe that competence does something about the working environment, creates challenges and contributes to recruitment and lower sick leave. In order for municipalities to take over patients with complex problems and disease images, more knowledge is needed. New knowledge and technologies will contribute to a better work situation and a better supply. We also need skills building within management, because the reorganization of the municipal health service will make greater demands on the leadership of the municipality. In the case of recruitment, there is an opportunity to increase the provision of training. Decentralised education is important for a good geographical spread, enabling adults to train and thus help increase the number of hands where they live. We also need more competence for those who are to be counseled, and I think what the University of Vestfold and Larvik Municipality are now developing, with professional guidance counsellors, is good. They shall provide good follow-up and guidance to the students in the municipal health service. We know that there is a defect in many places. Many students get poor practice as assistants in nursing homes, and learning often happens because the one to guide, often has a lot to do, or has a job break that doesn't fit. So the guidance becomes a little bit down-prioritized. It should be some of the most important thing you do if you have students. If this test becomes positive, it should be further developed and used elsewhere. It will also make it easier to provide places of practice, because then you will have a permanent set-up that works, and the students will get the practice and knowledge they need to meet everyday life alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1230	The President will draw attention to the fact that the called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Change Skjervø, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1236	The word ‘cooperation’ is a Norwegian term and comes originally from the data world. It's about machine-human interaction – seamlessness and interfaces. Gradually, the word has also become important as an action, an interaction or an interaction also in the interface between persons, organisations, groups, departments, etc. Interaction is used for the coordination and implementation of activities in a process where no individual or institution has a total responsibility for the process and where coordination and implementation of the activities must therefore take place in negotiations between the actors. Interaction is usually not an end in itself, but an instrument. Unfortunately, more of today's forms of organisation seem upsetting rather than coordinating. This applies, for example: flat structure, i.e. that service production takes place in defined performance units with reduced number of management levels between units and e.g. directors, advisers, etc., and in particular order/execution models and competitive outsourcing of individual services. Communication, the transmission of information and the communication of messages are instruments for interaction. Interactions take place between and across different levels, organisations, specialities and professionals. Therefore, interaction may include: communication, both human and electronic cooperation common processes exchange of experience working together towards common objectives exchange of information sharing knowledge sharing common views on content of opinions common actions to achieve the same objective The government believes that the patient’s need for coordinated healthcare is not being answered well enough today. That's why St.meld comes. No 47, Correct treatment – in the right place – at the right time. What vision, what main objective, governs Norwegian health debate and Norwegian health policy? Is the most treated patients as soon as possible and as cheap as possible? Or is it a fresher, healthier and more pronounced people? Geir-Ketil Hansen mentioned this and referred to Hippocrates: «Surely it is right to help sick people to get healthy, but it is equally important to prevent healthy people from getting sick.» This is the main challenge if we are to have a sustainable health service in the future. What does it take to prevent people from getting sick? Well, we have to eat less sugar, stop smoking, drink less alcohol, have at least 30 minutes of physical activity every day, and we have to eat healthier, i.e. more fruit and vegetables. The question then is: what measures will we take to achieve these objectives, to have a healthier, healthier and more widely used people? We see that the demand and cost growth in specialist health services are quantifiable, and it is linked to the large groups such as diabetes, coal, obesity, mental illness, etc. The number of older people will increase sharply in the future, and this is positive. It gives years to life. But what is most important in such a development is that it should give more life to the years – that is, more good years of life. To achieve this goal of strengthening preventive health work, both towards the chronicler groups and most people, a stronger cooperation with municipalities must be established. The voluntary organisations, such as the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, the LHL, user organisations, the Landsförbund of Hearing Officers, Outdoor organisations, the Norwegian Sports Association, are currently doing an important and very good job in public health work. The work of non-governmental organisations must be supported by the public, in order to achieve better results related to the physical and mental health of people. The work on changing and improving people's lifestyles must be started already during pregnancy, among guardians and in kindergartens. In addition, physical activity and diet among school students need to be considerably strengthened. The health service cannot do this job alone. Mainly, this work will need to be done in entirely different areas of the Norwegian welfare community, in close cooperation with patient organisations, non-governmental organisations, trade unions, employees, municipalities, etc. to get a healthier and a speaker people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1292	The interaction reform poses a number of important questions and provides many good answers. In the red-green health fraction, we have reinforced individual moments in the proposed action repertoire and elaborated and underlined what we think are the decisive factors: we need to prevent better, and we need to increase efforts to bring people back to their optimal level of function after serious illness or surgery. We have to offer the chroniclers better, those who live with mental disorders and those who struggle with intoxication. And we need to be better at interacting and cooperating both within and across institutions, levels and businesses. The interaction message points to the need for ICT to become the natural tool for communication and health information. The notification is based on the national strategy for electronic interaction in the health and care sector presented by the Government in the previous period. The strategy describes the possibilities offered by computer technology to provide good patient and user services, to produce good statistics for research, quality assurance and patient treatment, and to develop electronic patient records and to strengthen knowledge and information exchange across borders in the health sector, and to improve privacy, which technology can also provide us with. This is what we look at in all other areas of society where we use ICT – also to manage personal sensitive data. It's just so sad that we don't have all the parties in Stortinget with us on what can just be a paradigm shift for interaction in the health field, for the benefit of patients and users. However, I choose to add the goodwill and understand the representative Bent Höie there that he is on the run on these questions. Then, in the government parties, we get to take on the pedagogical task of making the representative Höie understand that there are not thousands of thousands to read patient records or records, and that we have good technical, legal and ethical rules and arrangements that protect the privacy of health services, and that we need to work further to strengthen this. The interaction reform points to those areas of health that have so far not had the strongest focus. The habilitation and rehabilitation field is such an area, and the effort here is strengthened and needs to be strengthened. This means that we need to see the specialist rehabilitation and primary rehabilitation in the context, and get better at tailoring treatment and follow-up for the individual. To do that, we need targeted research, and the government has already allocated earmarked funds for this. In this context, it is worth mentioning the measure Faster back, which is a rehabilitation project aimed at sick workers, where people with musculoskeletal disorders are the largest group. Faster returns include both the provision of specialist health care services and the provision of occupational rehabilitation services, with prompt clarification and individual follow-up. An exciting project within the Raskere scheme is the enterprise initiative, which is based on an early intervention model developed by the Special Hospital for Rehabilitation in Stavern. The concept is based on close cooperation between workers, workplaces, hubs and interdisciplinary health teams, and the project is active in Vestfold and Troms. The model is based on the previous three-year research project Aktiv Rygg, with labour-oriented rehabilitation in six enterprises. The result here was alarming: sick leave due to backache was reduced by a total of 49 pst. It will therefore be interesting to see what conclusions we can draw when the evaluation of Faster Responses is available in May now. To explain what is good health can be a challenge. The World Health Organisation has its definition, which reads as follows: Good health is ‘a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not just the absence of disease or listening’. How many poor and destitute people in the world would react to such a definition if they were presented to it is hard to imagine. I must admit to my soul that in all my wealth I feel that I am both short-lived and a little urven in meeting such health concerns. I think we're going to be very careful to be inspired by the World Health Organization's vision of improving the health system. Pursuing a life of complete well-being must indeed be said to be a blind trail, just as a total disease-free, painless or careless journey through life is a futility. Then it is several more inspiring to borrow ear to the author Yngvar Christophersen, who has written the book «Frisk enough». Christophersen, who lives with a chronic disease, wants to underline the importance of setting his own scale for what good health is. Christophersen says it like this: ‘My wish is to motivate chroniclers to move on a winding path from treatment to mastering, from passively receiving to active traders, from default to unfolding.’ These are words that all of us, both politicians and health workers, can take advantage of in the margin when this important reform of better interaction is to be launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1326	Unlike several speakers before me, I am very pleased that the day has come when we are going to deal with the cooperation reform at Stortinget. For my part, we could have raised the flag. There are many who have high expectations for the reform, both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, and perhaps not least here on the Stortinget. That is why I am pleased that today we are dealing with a document that is filled with ambitions and expectations about healthcare that will become more interconnected and adapt to the individual’s needs. The reform opens up the possibility in our long-term country of a wide range of interaction solutions. I think that will be a strength for the reform. Solutions that have come to the local level have more opportunities to succeed, because there are more people who have ownership of them. I want to use my post for two areas of healthcare that unfortunately are growing. I'd like to say a little bit about intoxication and psychiatry. If one can say that something in the reform is important for drugs and psychiatry, it must be prevention. If we get to a good prevention, we will save society from large sums, but not least we will save the individual person from pain and trouble. Preventing rather than repairing will always be profitable. If we are to meet tomorrow's challenges, we need to be good at prevention. Then we both have to think about new things and look at what works. Not least, we have to think in the long term. One of the challenges of prioritising prevention is that results may not always be immediately seen, but that results in the consumption of healthcare can sometimes go a long way. That is why I am pleased that the reform has a major focus on prevention. When it comes to mental health and drug abuse, we have a lot to do with prevention and early intervention. But even though we have a lot to go after, there are a lot of good things going on that we can use more places to benefit from. TIPS in Stavanger is such a good example of how to get early intervention. Here, parents, decision-makers, the school and the young person can contact themselves to be considered for treatment. Here you can come even if you don't have any requisition from the board. TIPS has good results for those treated with them, and they are also good at passing patients on to other healthcare services when they need it. When they get to the patients so early, the course of treatment is much shorter than if the patient should have gone and waited a long time, while the disease developed. TIPS in Stavanger are operated by the specialist health service, but they have close and close cooperation with the community health service, the school and the doctor. In other words, interaction in practice. Good prevention of drug use is a well-developed school health service, good drug-free activities and restrictive drug policies in municipalities. This may mean that we politicians sometimes have to make a few less populist decisions, such as: to limit serving times. In Eastfold County, several of the municipalities have done so, with good results. It shows that prevention is something we can do in many fields. The reform facilitates continued efforts in the field of drugs, and we need to focus on the children of drug users. We cannot allow the generational heritage of drug abuse to move on. One of the intentions of the Interaction Reform is to provide healthcare where patients live. Enhanced provision of housing and services in municipalities is an important part of the reform. It will provide a better deal, not least for those who are struggling with drug abuse and mental distress. The reform focuses on developing lowthreshold services for drug addicts, such as the Funkishuset in Stavanger. This is a good example of what can be done when several municipalities cooperate – completely voluntary, without coercion. While being helped to get to a dentist and to a regular, they get good health care, both somatic and mental. For drug users who are struggling with poor physical and mental health, it would be beneficial to have more multidisciplinary teams involved in the community health service, as the reform suggests. I am pleased that we are dealing with the cooperation reform today. It will provide an opportunity for a better everyday life for those who are struggling with intoxication and mental illness. They will have the opportunity to have their health services adapted to their needs where they live. It will give everyone a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1341	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1344	In the largest cities, many live with the best health and the highest life expectancy, and many with the worst health and the lowest life expectancy. At the age of 68, men in Sagene have a city in Oslo’s lowest life span. It's a whole 12 years lower than in Oslo's outer west, and the differences are increasing. In ten years the difference between the whole of Oslo east and the whole of Oslo west has increased by approx. one year. Good health is something other than good hospital services. The health service might be able to solve 10 pst. of people’s health problems. The rest is about how we live. The interaction reform places responsibility for prevention and early action on municipalities. It is good that an overall committee has made comments that point out that there is much more to it than what we normally think of as preventive health work. Prevention is about the growing-up environment, housing, clean air, noise, cycling and walking paths, and measures that contribute to physical activity, better diet, less smoking and less alcohol. The city councils have a special responsibility here. Odvar Nordli pointed it out recently so that we have a municipal structure from the time the carrion was the means of origin, and a hospital structure that was created at a time when people knew one disease, gout. No part of Norway is deserved to be a change-free zone. I feel the need to establish something that should be obvious: Aker hospital is a local hospital. Those who have raised doubts about it have given the Oslo people the impression that there are different rules here than in the rest of the country. It's not like that. The hospital structure needs to adapt to new needs. Population growth in the metropolitan area means that the number of older people aged over 67 is increasing sharply. Selling or shutting down Aker Hospital now, as some would like, is a costly and poor solution in the short term, and can mean organizing yourself into a hospital crisis in a few years' time. Given Oslo's special challenges, the Right-Fremskritsparte Council in Oslo has a key role to play in the implementation of the Cooperation Reform. Everything is designed to enable Aker Hospital to develop into a good interlocutory hospital with important new services. It assumes that the municipality and the state together find good solutions, and that Aker Hospital does not become a piece of a party political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1357	In the response of the Council of State to me, it was said that some of the details, the concrete proposals related to the Interaction Reform were to be included in the national health plan, new law on community health services and in the annual budgets. Then there is reason to recall that the Wisløff Committee's investigation had the title «From piece to piece», not the title «From piece to piece». Of all things, the Government is now adding up to a piecewise and divided treatment of the Interaction Reform and the instruments in it. The Council of State also said that there was broad agreement on this reform. Then it doesn't seem like the Council of State has listened particularly neither to its own figures, who said that there was a deep ideological distinction through the setting, nor to the opposition's description of the situation. Nor can one have read the final assessment by the newspapers of the reform: ‘A little bit of major reform’, writes the East German Post, ‘Hanssen’s incomplete,’ writes the Kommunal Report, ‘Strippet Gesundheitsreform’, writes the Aftenposten and ‘Lamhandel’, writes Dagens Næringsliv. Based on what the government has repeatedly said about a desire for a broad political settlement in this matter, it is surprising to hear the Council of State's answer today: that the reason they couldn't participate in it was that the opposition's proposal was economically binding. Yes, then neither the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and Welfare nor the Prime Minister may have found that all political settlements in the United Kingdom where a party enters into political agreements are economically binding and concrete, such as the climate agreement, such as the nursery agreement, such as the senior conciliation, such as the psychiatry agreement. All contain concrete economic promises and are obligating. The Council of State's response today confirms that the Council of State has never planned to make any compromise in this matter, in addition to inviting the opposition to join the Government's policy. That means you've kept the Storting too fooled for over a year. Then there's more from the opposition who's pulled out effort-driven funding, and says there's a significant ideological distinction. Well, yes, there must be an ideological distinction, because professionally, as far as I know, there is no evidence for the claims of the government parties. In NOW 2003:1, one says that a reduced ISF rate primarily provides better cost control by reducing hospital incentives to treat patients. The sample does not find empirical grounds for claiming that chronic diseases are not prioritised, but in fact suggests that they are included in the scheme. My question is, can anyone from the government parties answer how it is, as there is evidence that the opposite is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1370	It is difficult to see that the plurality of this issue provides a basis for optimism among current healthcare users, and it does not do so in future healthcare users. This is now part of a pattern, since the red-green government took over – Stoltenberg II – the health cows have increased by over 60,000 to 260,000, and there is no reason to believe that this trend should be reversed. One of the explanations that health cows have increased is that a reduced ISF part is from 60 pst. to 40 pst. Then one would believe that when there are many who think that a reduction in the ISF part increases the health cows, one might consider reversing him. Instead of doing the opposite, he reduces it to 30 pst. This means that hospitals will be given less and worse incentives to treat more patients — an additional patient — and unfortunately, there is a need to fear that health cows will increase further. Now, of course, 'cooperation' is a great word. And when you think about the word isolated, it might be difficult to be against interaction, but I thought there was very little in this case. In many ways, these are the ‘new clothes of the emperor’. Without a concrete money in place, it is difficult to see that this should be some ‘sesam-solution’. The reform also provided that, if local authorities are to take on new tasks, local authorities must have sufficient competence and a basis for taking on new tasks. So you have to solve for community cooperation. Now, of the 430 municipalities we have in Norway, there are many small municipalities. Utsira municipality with 214 inhabitants and Modal municipality with 360 inhabitants will, of course, have a much worse base than larger municipalities. Community cooperation will help to a certain extent to achieve this, but unfortunately it will also increase red tape, and it will increase the number of jobs by requiring municipalities to talk. The Progress Party believes that we should have a municipal structure reform and have fewer municipalities before leaving more tasks to the municipalities. It does not have our will, and therefore this more difficult can be some great success.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1381	Minority health has not been a priority in the Norwegian health system. The interaction message also doesn't say much, except that the disease patterns of the immigrant population differ negatively from those of the majority population, and that we need dialogue and a good understanding of needs. Diabetes is often used to illustrate a key point in the Cooperation Reform. The incidence is increasing sharply. The risk is greatest among those with the lowest income and the shortest education. A study by Romsås and Furuset in Oslo shows that in the age group 30–59 years, the incidence of diabetes is 2 whole 28 pst. among women and 14 pst. among men from India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, against 3 and 6 pst respectively. from western countries. Diabetes can have very serious consequences, such as blindness and amputations. Early diagnosis is important, prevention is even more important. Prevention and early diagnosis are about information. User organisations are important intermediaries. The Diabetes Association has 40 000 members in 138 local associations divided into all counties. How many of those members are immigrants? Here, user organisations have a major challenge. The same is true of the health care system. There are statistics and research on immigrants and health, but it is scattered and is not used systematically. St.meld. No 20 for 2006–2007 says something: there is a higher incidence of some infectious diseases, poorer dental health, low physical activity, lack of vitamin D, obesity — to mention something. St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A joyous event, shows less use of the pregnancy preparation course, more frequent stillbirths and malformations, a different risk profile, cross-press between traditions and advice from health professionals, etc. We also know that disease for some people is often about taboo parts of the body. Immigrants use the healthcare system less and will be treated later. The problem today is that the health care system does not relate to the knowledge that actually exists. They see individuals and diagnoses first and foremost. The interaction reform provides an opportunity to address these challenges. 70 pst. by the immigrants live in the impact field of Health South-East. It gives this health region a special responsibility. Interactions between specialist and primary health services are central to the reform. The decision-makers will have a clearer role to play. This gives the large municipalities of immigrants, such as: Oslo and Drammen, a special challenge. All parties agree that we do not want special care. That also means that projects are not good enough. Minority health must enter into day-to-day operations and into all education. It is about quality of life, it is about GDP, sustainable well-being and the cohesion of social differences. The work order is a political responsibility and must now be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1396	I must note that, after this debate and not least after the response of the representative, Are Health, to me, on the abolition of outpatient physiotherapy, linked to, for example. hot water basin and other treatment, the Government will not do anything to meet today’s offer of rehabilitation for large chronicler groups. So the pools will disappear – with the blessing of the government parties. This is meaningless when the entire committee, including the government parties, has written about the importance of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Instead, the representative says Are Health that he expects the regional health companies or health companies to offer the necessary offers – if I understood what he said correctly. In the context of this year’s state budget, government parties — in particular the Workers’ Party, at Hagebakken — promised that the Council of State would maintain outpatient physiotherapy, particularly linked to the basins, by requiring this in the mission documents of regional health firms. As I know, it's done too. However, the problem is that these documents are comprehensive and, in response to a number of previous questions to different health authorities, it has been shown that many health professionals do not give priority to everything that is stated in the mission documents. Let me mention some of the areas where different government councils have said that unfortunately, health companies have not prioritised this as expected yet, but now the ministry is going to follow closely. It concerned the pain patient regimen, cochlea implant operations, which were in addition numerically fixed, and measures applied to the most ill ME patients. I could mention several things, now also rehabilitation related to, among other things. pool and training. I also note that the government parties are divided in terms of municipal co-financing of 20 p.m. is iced or not. The Councils of State referred to further investigations into different general funding models. Then I have a question about it: Does it mean that the Government intends to introduce a specific general co-financing model from 2012, which will apply to all municipalities and hospitals from this date? That's how I perceived the state council's posts. It's possible she has nuances – I'm interested in it. I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party has, in its own comments, referred to various pilot projects that municipalities can also have both ordering and financing responsibilities. Another question is whether -- no, I get to get back to it, President, I can't reach it. I'll make another post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1407	Then the representative will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1410	The demographic changes that make more of us much older, and more of us will have more complex needs, give us challenges in the future. Interaction reform shall be one of the responses to this particular challenge. At the same time, it gives us great opportunities. That we're living longer, it's nice to see you. But demographic changes also give us other opportunities. It gives us a great opportunity to develop more exciting health settings in healthcare – both in prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, etc. Training more health professionals will be essential for the implementation of this reform. Now the state council has already talked nicely about what you've got in Uppland at the DMS – District Medical Center – but I'm going to draw up another case. Earlier this year, I was visiting the University of Gjøvik. I was just visiting to get a better insight into how they were going to tackle the skills challenges of the Interaction Reform. I am happy to announce that the University of Gjøvik is in good order in this way. They are, among other things, familiar to me, the only ones in the country who are thinking of offering a master in gerontology. They have a work going on with NOKUT about it now. So gerontology means aging knowledge – knowledge that will be an absolute core competence in a future where we become older and more complex. At the same time, I have to mention that the Gjøvik College is the only place in Europe that has an ambulance simulator where a construction makes a person feel that a driving sick car is at great speed on difficult roads – this to practice in car nurses. They have been created because the Gjøvik University also offers technical subjects. So soft and hard subjects can complement each other in a good way. I therefore believe it is very important that we and the various educational institutions regularly discuss whether we have the health education we need in the future. Do we offer what we need, and how do we contribute better than today to the recruitment of these exciting and important professions? It is important that we can offer both basic and continuing training in different parts of the country. A well-developed university and higher education sector is therefore a prerequisite for wide recruitment. I believe that the cooperation reform can contribute to a positive local commitment to competence. I also believe that it can contribute to better recruitment for exciting health professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1425	We are sitting in Stortinget today and are going to deal with a major new reform for many people in Norway. We are once again seeing that the opposition does not fully agree with the main pillars of the reform, namely the financing system and the administrative structure – and then it gives criticism to the position that we are not inviting for broad dialogue. So it doesn't agree with each other either. The Labour Party will renew and improve public administration. I heard earlier in the debate someone mentioned that the government was busy with the system and not by people. I think it's a classic ideological dividing line that goes between managing the community's resources in a good way and entrusting the entire responsibility to individuals. We're busy with systems because the systems provide services to people. That's why it's important how we organize the systems. The first patient came in 2000. Through it, the patient was put in the center. It was a revolution in healthcare that, until then, had been very hierarchically organized, with clear management lines, and where the patient was largely in charge of health care. In recent years, there have also been many health and care reforms — reforms dealing with nursing homes, permanent care, mental retardation and more. Through all these reforms, no one has taken responsibility for the whole thing, until the government now presents this reform. In the period 2000 until now, local involvement has grown that is very good. In the Lister region, for example: is now the Interaction Reform put on the wallpaper, and they want to get this done. There will be follow-up research at the University of Agder and the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane to look at three cooperation regions and how they solve this. I myself took the initiative in a project on joint employment between Kristiansand Municipality and Sørlanden Hospital in Kristiansand. It is a very good project, and it also takes care of, among other things. the requirement for multiple full-time positions. So it's a little strange to hear the debate. When we had a debate about Nav, the criticism from the opposition was that it went too fast. Now, when we get a reform where we really want to take the time to go through this and find solutions, it's too late. In particular, it is important that we get early intervention in place and good prevention. I am very pleased with the signals contained in the reform of this. This will especially benefit children, because they often experience long-term discomfort when their parents get sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1446	The representative Wenche Olsen said earlier today that for her this could well be a day when one was flagged. You're actually flagging today. And quite symptomaticly, it is well that you flagged for the visit of the Russian President and at all events not for the consideration of this matter. On this debate, you can use Churchill's words – perhaps rewritten – and not least about the red-green debaters in this matter: Never before have so many people talked so much about so little. There are no concrete proposals in this matter. The liquorice test itself on interaction should perhaps be the invitation of the government parties to cooperation across the party boundaries in this room. Perhaps the best test would have been whether you really want to interact, if you had taken the opposition seriously, and at least be willing to evaluate the proposals the opposition had. When you are not even willing to take concrete proposals seriously, how are you going to get others to interact? Well, that's what I'm asking. At the same time, when you send out signals that there is austerity reform that the Minister of Health has introduced here, it is actually very little left. The ISF share has been an appeal point from the government parties. I just want to quote from their own comments on the matter, where it says: ‘The majority believe this increases the need for good management and ownership of the specialist healthcare service because cuts in normal patient treatment could increase waiting times.’ And then you're going to write about the ISF's actual share: these parts "may think it's right to reduce the ISF's share from 40 to 30 percent." However, it is also said that ‘activity-based funding is an important part of the financing of the specialist healthcare service’. So here you say two different things with just one side space. In this post, I also want to make a brief visit to some of the things that have been said earlier in the debate, especially to the centre party representative Toppe, who has not wanted to answer why the centre party is involved in cutting into the framework of health companies. She said, a little from above and down, that recent newspaper headlines – cheap newspaper headlines, I think was the term – about the closure of local hospitals, as well as talking for themselves. I assume that she was thinking of party leader Navarsete’s “cheap” notice that no local hospital should be closed – despite the fact that we have closed six pieces. On top of that, I just want to say that the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right want to support the proposals. 10 and 11, presented by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1467	The President was then made aware of the support expressed by the representative Per Arne Olsen. Otherwise, the President expects the representative Toppe to be able to answer the representative in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1472	It has been unimaginably strange to listen to the opposition today. First, several representatives have stood up as warm defenders of the Cooperation Reform. After that, it has been claimed that the government parties have turned their backs on the same reform, despite the fact that we have therefore joined all, most of the measures and initiatives provided for by the reform. We have even strengthened some important elements, such as the emphasis on rehabilitation and the need to strengthen education in the health field. Where we have not followed the call for proposals for municipal co-financing of patients being treated in the specialist health service. We believe that this point needs to be investigated more, and that different models of economic incentives need to be considered in order to distort healthcare in the direction we want where people live – in the municipalities. And the opposition agrees with us that we should not go in for municipal co-financing with a pen stroke at the present time of the party. But we're being criticized for that, for some weird reason. The opposition regrets that a broad settlement has not been reached in the Storting, and so do I. However, the opposition's invitation has been to publicise and submit a number of demands to sign out appropriations in non-costed, non-costed areas, for which no one knows the price. In addition, ISF funding will be strengthened and nothing will be done about the permanent scheme. The opposition knows, of course, that we cannot deal with appropriations in this way in connection with this big message that is now to be adopted. We need to follow up on the measures we have joined in the municipal proposal, in a new national health and care plan and in annual budgets. It may be tempting to use the Right fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, so strikingly uses to call TV money, especially when he is in debate with the Progress Party. However, it is particularly appropriate for cross-political cooperation in order to put this major health reform in place that is not the approach adopted by the opposition in the handling of the wholesale communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1483	In order to address the increase in lifestyle diseases in the population and the challenges associated with the growth of older people, the Government has now presented the Interaction Reform. This is, as everyone knows, a major and demanding, important and proper reform for the future, and it will have great significance for all the inhabitants of our country. It is therefore important that we put the right measures in order and that we understand that this major reform cannot be implemented overnight. In short, the reform requires municipalities to invest more in health prevention to reduce the growth of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, coal, drug problems and mental disorders. At the same time, municipalities should be better able to deal with the health problems that older people naturally develop due to old age, so that they do not enter hospitals to the extent that they do today. This will, of course, in the long term lead to an improvement in the health of the population and to an increase in the number of older people receiving the health and care services they need in their home municipality. According to the Central Statistical Office, Norway currently has 600 000 inhabitants over 67 years of age. By 2060 it will be more than 1.5 million who have passed 67 years! This is a formidable increase that I'm not sure if we've really taken over. We know that the need for health care in general and hospital services in particular increases considerably when we pass 70 years. Sintef has estimated that this group has already increased by 22,000 people in 2016, i.e. in less than six years. If we are to maintain the same quality and extent of hospital services as today, that means that over a 20-year period we have to increase bed capacity by 5,000 beds. This is equal to 50 pst. increase in relation to current capacity. If we succeed in the interaction reform, which I have great faith in, we assume that the need for hospital services will not increase to the extent that the hospital scientists at Sintef have calculated. But there will still be a need for an increase beyond the current level. A report I heard in the newscasts on the NRK Radio around Easter hours showed that the need for emergency services because of the increase in the number of elderly people will increase by a whole 30 pst. until 2020. It goes without saying that the need for emergency services is something that cannot be resolved in the municipalities. People who have heart attacks, break their lower necks, or have a stroke have to be hospitalized in the emergency phase. And the risk of having just such acute disorders increases with age. It is therefore essential that we continue to invest in local hospitals and municipalities. It is a success criterion if we are to succeed in the cooperation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1498	Two important words for good welfare services for residents in this country are proximity to the services and good professional care. In this perspective, one of the most important targeted measures is to strengthen the interaction between the specialist services and the local health services. Local authorities are the closest and can be strengthened by economic development both in terms of good professional quality and on a broader scale. Providing services on a new level, i.e. at the intermediate level between the specialist services and the municipalities, in some municipalities it will be about increasing the crew density of doctors and nurses. In many small municipalities, additions may increase their job rates in addition to adding new ones. In other places, municipalities will work together and develop cooperation. The local authorities are willing to do this. Municipalities must be given the economy to meet these challenges. It is an objective to provide welfare services at the best and lowest levels of care. Local hospitals have an important function by providing citizens with safety and proximity to maternity wards and full-time emergency services in District Norway. Health practitioners may have thoughts about the reduction of surgical emergency functions and maternity wards may not be associated with the Interaction Reform. Local hospitals shall be maintained. On the other hand, local hospitals with maternity wards and emergency wards will also be important for building skills in municipalities in an interaction perspective. The inhabitants should have good services available where they live. Prevention must be given greater emphasis than at present. A person shall work for a healthy lifestyle to combat lifestyle diseases, focus on stanchive work and facilitate physical activity and social meeting places. These are challenges that local authorities need to strengthen their economy to tackle. There are important measures that municipalities are the best to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1509	With experience from the implementation of the Nav reform, I have to say that I am very pleased that the Stortinget has said that we need time to implement the Cooperation Reform. For everybody agrees on the intention, but there are a lot of pieces that need to be put in place, and that it's important to be absolutely sure of working. If one is to have increased prevention and more local treatment, it must be done at the same time as those who are to be treated at specialist level. How this should be judged in a decision-making manner and not least paid is very important. This is a point on which the Committee has been involved, but which I believe has not been mentioned in particular in the debate. It's about how to get enough, and keep enough, competent and committed people within this field. Several people have been up here now and talked about how many older we are – and there are some of us here that are mentioned. And then there's a lot of people. One of the problems in this context is the high use of small posts in these professions. It's up to all of these women's bodies to get little fractions and part-time. I have no faith that it is possible to recruit enough people in the future if you don't get cleaned up in this and get secure people full time. In fact, we have to offer whole jobs to train people, take long courses, and get them to stay in the healthcare sector, whether it's municipal, in the specialist health service, or whether it's in prevention. I think we have to have rules in place when it comes to this, rules that are much stronger than those we have today. I have launched a proposal to pay full overtime for work in addition to the job fraction in the case of involuntary part-time work. I have recorded that the LO has included this point in its overall plans in relation to salary statements. They call it just right extra payment and not full overtime payment. But if we had done such a thing, it would have been enormously unprofitable both for the community health service and for the specialist health service to organize their work in the way they do. There are also other sectors of society that do it, and what's typical about it is that where there are men working, you get all the jobs. Where women work, there are many odd little positions, which means that you never know what you're doing, never know who you're going to work with, never get part of the skills that is, and you don't get a salary you can live with. One of the most important strategies to make the cooperation reform work and to make it work in the future is that we have a right to a full-time job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1522	The opposition has today owed the government party to vote for a reform that has (1) little content and (2) the economy of the blue. That is not the case. If the opposition says so, one has said it even less in the case. When it comes to tasks, we say that municipalities should build up municipal services before, instead of and after hospitalisation. We say that municipalities should develop outpatient teams in the municipal sector, especially before relieving treatment, geriatry and rehabilitation. We say that municipalities should be given responsibility for the provision of learning and bestialisation and get a stronger expansion of municipal services in the area of psychiatry and alcohol. We say that municipalities should be given new tasks when it comes to health monitoring, public health work and contract work. We say that the municipalities will be able to control more. We say that cooperating municipalities will be given responsibility for local medical centres. We say that municipalities should be given a boost to public work linked to hospitals, health centres, schooling and prison health services. The opposition says little about new, concrete tasks to come to the municipalities, and refers to the escalation plan for drugs, psychiatry, rehabilitation and diabetes, etc. There's in a way nothing new. It's absolutely important, but it's not a reform; it's a follow-up to what we're adopting today. What constitutes a reform is funding. We are concrete. We say that input-driven funding should be reduced. We say that municipalities should be given responsibility for patients who are ready to print. We say that the growth in the health budget is now mainly going to happen in the municipalities – that is a very important point. We say we have to get our own means of prevention. We have already shown that in the 2010 budget. When it relates to municipal co-financing, we say it should be considered more closely, but the opposition, which is opposed to this, should not complain so much about it in case. The eye-marked means is what the opposition answers to, and it's kind of the easiest thing to do when we have money and don't use it for tax havens, at least. To Per Arne Olsen: The point is that the whole interaction reform is about reducing the burden on hospitals to release resources for hospital patient treatment – in local hospitals and other hospitals. Of course, it wasn't my party leader I owed to have cheap political plays; it was actually the opposition that's going on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1542	The state of Health-Norway is probably much more nuanced than the diagnosis the Progress Party makes, and what they intend to tell their voters until September 2013. Clearly we have challenges – waiting lists are one of them, interaction is another. On the other hand, we treat more patients than ever and with the use of increasingly advanced technology. The newspaper gave readers a glimpse into this world on Saturday. The rapporteur and others have addressed some of the challenges we have. One of them is that many and large patient groups are being treated at the wrong level for different reasons, and that there are also many facilities in hospitals, especially among elderly patients. This is both human and professionally unfortunate. Being a swing door space leads to transportation to and from hospitals. In addition to the disease, transport itself is an additional burden. For the population of District Norway, this challenge becomes even more noticeable, because there is often a high distance from the local hospital. One example is my municipality of origin, Alta. The nearest local hospital is 140 km away – the distance Oslo-Hamar. The second local hospital is probably 500 km away – the distance Oslo–Trondheim. Alta is by no means unique. The distance issue is and will continue to be a challenge in developing tomorrow’s healthcare across the country. It is important to note that we are pleased that good emergency services have been developed by using ambulance aircraft and increasingly advanced equipment in ambulances, offers that help reduce the burden on patients. Despite good ambulance services, there are very many debates throughout the country – and with great commitment – to continue to develop good emergency services for the people around it. These debates must and should be taken seriously. When we are so dependent on a well-developed ambulance service, it is also very important that those who sit on the AMK centres have the necessary cultural and language skills in view of our minorities. Last night there was a look-up in the NRK Sámi Radio where the lack of language skills could have serious consequences. I note that an overall committee is behind this challenge. In Finnmark, we have a population of one hospital, geography for three. The solution has been to build hospitals or DMSs that offer bed beds, but also very advanced specialist health services. Many of these are located in the border country between municipal and specialist health services, the so-called 1.5-line service. The challenge to date has been to find good funding models that ensure the further development of this offer. I am pleased that the message is so clear that these challenges are soon history. The very essence of the Interaction Reform is that patients should also receive good health services outside hospitals and close to their homes. I am proud to say that very much of what is at the bottom of this message is done in the light of the good experience we have, among other things. has done in Finnmark. The ‘Alta model’ is a well-known concept, where philosophy has been to develop as good a health offer as possible on the basis of not being a hospital municipality. So far, this has been a success, and where interaction between different levels has been the focus. Based on my own experiences and those of others, I am sure that this reform will be the best for patients around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1565	The cooperation reform is a declaration of trust to Norwegian municipalities. Prevention and early intervention are flawed today. This shifts resource use towards expensive specialist health services. The aim of the Cooperation Reform is to reverse these developments. Municipalities are intended for a key role. The Progress Party characterises this as a reform without content. This is wrong. Firstly, this is a major change at system level, with municipal provision before, instead of and after hospitalisation. Secondly, there are some good examples from different places in the country that interaction solutions benefit patients. My own hometown, Odda, belongs to the Health West. Here, through the health care model, six different pilot projects have been launched between hospitals, the Stockholm College of Stord/Haugesund and the municipalities through the Learning and Meisterstring Centres in Health Fonna. Many municipalities are developing cooperation in the spirit of reform. On the right, they can be interpreted as if they wanted to make the Cooperation Reform a matter of municipal structure. This is not a community merger reform. There is, of course, a reform aimed at that debt: the patient. Making this a structural debate will only create accidental resistance. Interaction must provide better health care quality, which is what it is all about. If the Cooperation Reform succeeds, more municipalities will have to cooperate. The larger municipalities in a region can take on a host role. My own municipality, Odda, is just such a natural host municipality. With a good local hospital and small surrounding municipalities that can draw exchange in the hospital, cooperation around medical care facilities, medical centres and management of drug problems. Many municipalities want such a pilot function and are already exploiting services and are in active dialogue with neighbouring municipalities on cooperation. Municipal co-financing has been a topic of debate. Pilot projects should be launched to test different models before concluding in this area. We're now going into a busy and exciting period across the whole country. We need enthusiasm and strong anchoring in the interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1582	I have been given the opportunity to start about the cooperation reform at very many meetings throughout the country over the last few months, both professional meetings and political meetings. These meetings have had some common features. Firstly, the meetings have been marked by very optimistic and very commitment, both to the ideas of the Cooperation Reform and to the implementation. That is why I have had a completely different experience from the meetings I have had, than the one that Solberg's representative said in his post. Secondly, I would like to thank you, when I attend such a meeting, because I am allowed to talk for 20-30 minutes about the cooperation reform. I have used to say that it is possible to make a five-minute post, but then the meeting will have a restaurant version. It tastes good and can even be entertaining, but the assembly will quickly be hungry for more knowledge. When you get a little bit more time, it is possible to go into and through the idea of reform with respect for the entire content. In fact, the interaction reform is open and debated in very many places. There are very many places in the big news of the cooperation reform that we are waiting for a clarification of direction in the Stortinget before further concreteisation. Such clarification is given in the treatment here today. Thirdly, in the round of debates, there are two permanent themes that always come up. One theme is: This should not be a new Nav. I feel that the Committee and the majority have taken this into account when we put so much emphasis on safe implementation, that we choose to ensure the quality of what we need to ensure, and that we need to adapt the speed of implementation to the availability of personnel. The second thing that emerges in all debates is that people will show their own local interaction actions, and they do so with justified pride. It reminds us that we have not invented the interaction reform in the central state, but we put it into system, spread the good solutions to the whole country, and we demand that they be used. Despite considerable consensus, the rhetoric has today tried to create a great distance. I can't follow up all the performances, but I allow myself to stop by the representative Olsen's post where there were two cover headlines: both that the message is good, and that the only thing left is the headline. Here I think there's been a little too much Møller's tran at the Country Meeting of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1595	There have been several who have said here today that I have said that these 42 proposals were too expensive. It is even included in the setting, in a comment from the Progress Party. I didn't say that. This is from the TV2 news on 11 March, where a number of things you want to have more of: private health care facilities, more money for different areas of health care – on which we will, of course, spend more money, but that was not what this reform was supposed to be about. This reform was supposed to be about building a robust health system for the future. We were to show a direction, and then we were to follow it up by a health and care plan and a new law. The law is to be consulted for the autumn and both are to be processed for the spring. Siv Jensen said that we were more concerned with the systems than with individuals. I will reject that strongly. We had not gone into such a great reform effort with so much enthusiasm, I would say, and met so much enthusiasm if it wasn't because we were occupied with individuals, occupied with patients' woes and well and took seriously what's the big challenge, that many people – especially chroniclers – meet a far too fragmented healthcare system, where we have to take action in another hand, and where we have to enable the municipalities to take a much greater responsibility for meeting the challenges that are. He was afraid that older people would lose their lives. It's a concern I can understand coming up, that older people can be losers. But very much of this reform is precisely designed to care for the elderly in a better way than today, letting the elderly stay away from hospital for a long time, but getting more and better cared for in their community. It's not done with a decision here today, but then at least we'll know how to build up the health care system of the future, and we'll be able to focus on how to take care of it. When it comes to the representative, Höie, I have to say that I am quite surprised at the rhetoric. Here I am told that I should have kept a few too fools, when the opposition only goes out and demands that 42 measures be agreed on, and then I have misunderstood that you do not agree here either. Then I have to say that it doesn't much like a desire for a settlement. Then it becomes more of a fait accompli. We weren't in on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1607	This is not austerity reform. But we're going to save people to meet systems that don't work well together. That's why it's important to get rid of the systems and make good systems, because it makes people feel better. I think Tove Karoline Knutsen went a little into the nucleus of the disagreement we see here today. I ask, what are we really red-green so dramatically washed away in relation to what was once presented as a message? What have we washed away? Well, we want to guarantee the quality of the economic incentives that I have said before, which the committee fully agrees with is right. And I repeat: we have listened, not least to KS, which has a very central role here in order for us to carry out the reform, as they represent the Municipality of Norway, which is so extremely important in this context. If we guarantee quality, that doesn't mean it shouldn't be incentives. I think it's a good idea that the municipalities have incentives too. It's basically the right-hand parts have made sure to wash away as far as they can from their positions, except at one point. So what's the option on the right-hand side? I would like to say that we cannot base a national reform solely on experimentation around the country, supplemented by a reduced share of framework transfer to hospitals and increased privatisation, as the right parties suggest. There is no reform. We're too messy out there, and we're going to organize the tailor's seam, but we have to make national arrangements and arrange for success. What we haven't done is treat this message as if it were a budget. This does not mean that we have stopped giving priority to important health policy issues. I don't think the Right has any reason to present as a complete idea that they wanted to take over 500 million. kr from what would go to increased patient treatment, otherwise, in order to be able to boast about the commitment to rehabilitation throughout the year. I sometimes think you should remember where you take the money from, before you get tough on the outside, to express it like this. There's got to be limits to black paint. Today's most complete description we got from Siv Jensen, who came, let the reform stoned to death and disappeared. I'm not going to say that she was whipped and angry, because it's not allowed to say here in the hall. On the other hand, there was only one quote from Håvard Narum’s comment article in today’s Evening Post on the national meeting and what he calls the ‘frustration party’. I would particularly like to wish the Christian People's Party all the best in the further cooperation with its allies on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1622	Then the president will tell Tore Hagebakken that he should know the system here, so that he avoids clubbing from the president. I ask the representative not to try it in later articles. Laila Bavøy has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1627	It has been criticised that opposition parties say that this reform takes too long. But it is not the reform itself that takes too long. The point is that the Government is within its fifth year, and they had an investigation – the Wisløff Committee's position on interaction – in hand from the first day. There was a marked need for interaction and cooperation. Now there's going to be – I listed here instead – a series of new investigations, and it's going to take at least one year before municipalities, hospitals and patients know how to share tasks and funding systems. Once the reform is ready, time can be devoted to implementation through projects. It took ten years before the final reform found its final form, so it's not the reform itself, but it's that you've spent so long. Then I find out that the Council of State did not answer my question. I ask again that she reply – this is essential for the Stortinget to know: Are you aiming at a specific general co-financing model from 2012, which will apply to all municipalities and all enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1634	I have a few comments – first to the representative Haugli. He first clarified that Aker Hospital is a local hospital. He was very ready for that. So he said to put it down is "a costly and poor solution". Then my question is to the Council of State about the woman who agrees with the representative Haugli. I'm asking to get a comment on that. Then Haugli added: "If it should happen, he left responsibility in the municipality of Oslo. It's about a big political game. If you first, as a responsible party who sits in government, put down a local hospital and then put the responsibility at Oslo Municipality for further operation at Aker Hospital as part of a new reform, then disclaimer is put into system. If the representative of Haugli and the rest of Oslo's labour party agree that Aker hospital should be preserved, they can do something about it now, before it is laid down, instead of shifting responsibility to the municipality of Oslo and those who run in the municipality of Oslo. So a line to the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen: He said in the debate earlier today, when he talked about life expectancy in Oslo – that debate is still gone in Oslo City Council, and it is very interesting – that in some parts of Oslo it is 12 years longer expected lifetime. West Aker is taken out, and Sagen has a shorter life span of 12 years. Then I wonder, is it genetic? Do you think it's a long-lived story that's found in West Aker, which you haven't found in any other neighborhood? It's hardly. Is it so that it's financial, that it's those who have good advice, who live long, or that they can buy themselves lifelong? Nope. In that case it would be that if you lived on the Sags and won the Lotto, you should immediately move to West Aker, so that you could live an average of 12 years longer. It would have been a thing. Is it possible that it is a result of life - style? Maybe that -- maybe it's a way of life. Then there is diet, exercise and lifestyle in general that may make you live longer on average than others do. The question is, is it the politicians' job to make people live longer, make people eat apples, make people eat carrots in school or vegetables for dinner, or make people stop smoking, etc.? Is this the task of politicians, or are most people responsible for their lives, if you have enough information about this? I would like to say that it is primarily the responsibility of the individual. We can facilitate certain political approaches, but we can't force people to eat vegetables or stop smoking to make them live any longer. It's a choice that people take for themselves, and it has nothing to say where you live -- that's how you live your lives, which means something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1647	It's tempting to go into a debate with Christian Tybring-Gjedde. That's always the case. I just want to tell him that it shows a complete lack of idea of what his social responsibility is, if he thinks it's not the job of politicians to make sure that people live longer, especially in those parts of the city that have the worst living conditions. But it is a well-known case that the Progress Party is opposed to equalising differences. What we heard here is just a good proof of that. I want to talk about the cooperation reform. We in the municipal committee and I as the municipal committee leader travel a lot around and meet representatives of the municipalities. I feel that the cooperation reform as it exists, which has been discussed here today, is a declaration of trust to the municipalities of the country. I think that's very good. It is about the belief that a good part of the tasks currently carried out by centralised institutions can be done more effectively for the inhabitants of the municipalities of the country if the municipalities are given greater responsibility for this and have more opportunity to cooperate on it. That kind of interaction I think it is very good that we are now implementing. I experience a complete and wholehearted commitment from Kommune-Norway in meetings with the municipalities. One of the people I visited, Boø in the Westål, was very clear that they saw that they could handle it just because they were local. They had the opportunity to see the ordinary health services, the primary health services, in cooperation with the health care services, had the opportunity to see them in conjunction with more specialised health home services. In this way, they could offer their citizens a better offer than they would otherwise do with today's system, which is more fragmented. I think local units can be better at seeing the whole human being. So the question is, how do we get out of here and into the goal? I think the debate has shown that the job that the Health Committee has done has been good. We look closely at and listen to the municipalities in terms of cooperation, and in terms of how we make economic systems, how things are to be properly rigged there. I think it's important that we take the time we need to take the steps, so that we make sure that this reform is as good as possible, and that we listen to the municipalities when they say what tasks they are ready to take over. That's a lot. They say clearly that they are ready to take over, and we have to make sure that those tasks are properly financed. We also need to ensure that the incentives we give are so that we ensure interaction, prevention, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Then I have faith that this is going to be a reform that is going to stand in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1660	The representative Per Arne Olsen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1663	Several representatives from the red-green side have attended the national meeting of the Progress Party, i.e. in retrospect. Are Health was one of those who thought I had drunk «too much Møller's tran» at the national meeting, but I can assure the representative Health that there are quite different things than Møller's tran it is drunk at the National Meeting of the Advancement Party. He is cordially welcome to come and visit us next time, so he may be allowed to observe it himself. I would like to follow up on something the representative from the Senterpartiet said, namely, when she struck with a wide pen that local hospital should contain emergency services and food supplies. This we have tried to challenge the Council of State throughout the session without getting a clear answer to what the definition should be. So the question is, is the Central Party's Kalland entitled to include this, or does the Government have a different policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1670	Sometimes it happens at the end of such debates that it is when the debate starts. After all the nice greetings comes the political touch. I just have to say that I don't think the Council of State hit so well in its attempt at political concern. That's why I come back to comment on a couple of her claims. One was that the Council of State said it was not because the opposition's demands were too expensive for them to reject it. That's an interesting and new information. But it is a little strange that the Council of State is hiding behind a TV 2 posting, because the Prime Minister stood a week ago in this Chamber and gave the same reason that the Council of State itself gave on TV 2 for why they were not in favour. He said that the negotiations had stranded because the requirements were too expensive. I believe that when you take note of the fact that you think it is too expensive to have a rehabilitation plan, that you think that a number of other measures and proposals that are coming are too expensive, it is important that you also say that to the patient association, which has heard something different year after year from the red-green parties in these areas. In fact, we believe that more money for rehabilitation means fewer hospitalizations, because the swing door problems are too bad practice and help afterwards. That is why it is possible to make re-priorities within the budgets as well. That's the one thing I think is striking. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to talk to the Prime Minister and clarify what the government's official answer actually is: Is it that the demands we made were too expensive? Or is it the content of the requirements that is the problem? If the Prime Minister agrees with his State Council now that it is not because it is too expensive, the Prime Minister must correct the answer he gave during oral Question Time last week. The second thing that the Minister of Health was able to say was that it was so difficult to negotiate because we had made 42 demands. I have not taken part in a debate in this house where the opposition or those with whom you are going to negotiate has not exactly been the starting point, and then you start negotiating. The climate agreement began with 61 demands from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Then we did a nine-time job and went through it. We didn't get through anything, something we got through. Most of what the government boasts of as its own policy today, we got through. But that's how negotiations happen. Our experience was: We delivered the requirements and were rejected on any substantive assessment. The government was not interested at all in talking to see where it was possible to find the least common multiple. The government was not interested in any conciliation and some direction we agreed on as a majority on the Storting when it came to the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1683	The representative Bent Höie has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1686	The representative Hagebakken wondered what was the majority had washed away from the notification through the magistrate. The answer is that in the big picture it is a comprehensive formulation that these issues should be resolved through the consideration of the Storting, and in the vote of the majority of the Committee it is a horizontal formulation that these issues should be resolved through further investigation by the Government. That is, the government is running and playing pingpongball with itself and the questions that should really have been settled in this matter. That's what's washed away. Clearance has been washed away. Then I find that no one from the government parties has answered my question: Is there any new evidence that can support the government party's claim that an ISF funding of 40 p.m. involve, inter alia, the following: are chronic patients discriminated against or not prioritised in the healthcare system? If I do not find that the 2003 NOU, which says that a reduction in the ISF only has to do with cost control – not priority – is next to hand. It confirms that this is a savings reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1693	I've looked at the position on what lies there in terms of funding, and what is proposal from the opposition and from the majority. At the same time, we see that the Committee considers that: ‘it is important that the government in the further work on the implementation of the interaction reform ensures sound possible models’. That's also what I said earlier, that we're working on different funding models to be very sure about meeting both large and small municipalities. I can't figure out how to do this right now. It's a work that's going on. Then there are others who have said that the reform takes too long. I understand that impatience. But it is still the case that many municipalities are preparing for the reform. A great deal has been done and done to prepare, not least in terms of cooperation with other municipalities, the establishment of local medical centres, and also in this context a new focus on rehabilitation. Sonja Sjøli said earlier that we wouldn't bet on rehabilitation, but I believe that the cooperation reform in its entire form is a reform for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, where it is very important that rehabilitation is much more focused, not least in the municipalities. Just what is going to be in the municipalities, and what is going to be in the specialist health service, we will clarify in the further work, because rehabilitation must be in both places. In the case of Aker and the situation of Aker now, a Rusakutt is established in Aker. It could be that the municipality of Oslo will set up its city guard there. That'll be an opportunity for Aker. You do not want to use the entire hospital, but you may need parts. In addition, we believe that a good interaction arena could be established on Aker, which could just take care of the large groups of chroniclers, of whom there are many. Either way, it's a big need. Then to the Progress Party and the local hospital. It was addressed in the context of the revised national budget in 2008, so it is really found in the context of local hospitals and different functions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1710	After this debate, we can see that the Government has asked a very fundamental and timely question about the Norwegian healthcare system. It is: How to ensure better interaction between the different joints – better overall throughout the chain? Unfortunately, the government has given a very fuzzy response. It has promoted something it calls reform, but which is actually a sketch of further investigation work, despite the fact that it has not been lacking in investigations. We have the Wisløff committee, we have the Brustad operationalization of the Wisløff committee, and we have the extensive work that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen started. The most positive thing that can be said about that process is that it has set in motion an enormous enthusiasm for interaction around the country. It now interacts better and more than ever, and honour be the Government and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen for it. However, the government has not been able to answer the organisational and financial questions that need to be put in place in order for this to become something more than an enthusiastic version of a political workshop, that there will be a reform. It's a shame that this coagulation process ends in new orders for investigations, when we need to, was political action. The whole of Norway is now calling for it. The country is ready for more interaction. Yeah, they already do, but they don't get the Biggest and Government answers to what organizational and financial frameworks. The government has created enthusiasm for interaction in healthcare, but it has not managed to interact politically here in the Stortinget. I'm sorry, because the entire opposition was ready to interact. Let go that some of the 42 requirements were not edible to the Government. That's just a starting point for negotiations. But in reality, we have been told that there has been no real political process and negotiation at all on something as important as the perhaps greatest political process of change that this process of enlargement is going to address. I think this is about a lack of ability to interact, which the government should not be familiar with – a government that has invited the Stortinget to interact and to a broad agreement on the major issues. We've been ready for that. We are still ready for that, and we hope that this matter will end in more interaction in the future, regardless of what is now determined by the Storting. My call to Health-Norway: Stand on! Do what Storting failed to do. Make sure the interaction in practice, and then we'll see if we can get a new government that can speed up the organisational and financial framework. Because it needs Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1719	The Council of State said that the cooperation reform was a reform of rehabilitation. When this was presented last summer, it was so clean for mention of rehabilitation and the importance of it. What is now in the setting of notes in the case of rehabilitation is the actual opposition that has been put in and to which the government parties have joined. Then we, the representative, Höie and I, have now for several hours tried to get an answer to this with input-driven funding. In a press release sent out by the government parties on 20 April, they say that the questions about the input-driven funding should be 30, 40 or 50 pst. is a fundamental ideological question, and this also repeated the representative Hagebakken in his speech. So NOU 2003:1 on input-driven financing has been mentioned here. It is noted that a higher proportion of ISF contribute to increased patient treatment. A reduced ISF rate primarily improves cost control by reducing the incentives of hospitals to treat patients. When we have not been answered if there are any recent professional investigations on the impact of input-driven financing, we cannot understand it differently than, as the representative Höie also pointed out, that there must be cost control that is really the reason, and then we hide behind that this is an ‘ideological issue’. I again ask the Council of State quite specifically: is there any new technical evidence that input-driven funding actually leads to poorer patient treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1726	There have been repeated several times the question of the existence of professional evidence in addition to what is apparently in a NOU of 2003, that input-driven funding, if I perceive it correctly, does not have the unfortunate consequences that this goes beyond chroniclers, rehabilitation, psychiatry, drug use – i.e. those patient groups that are alleged to suffer badly from input-driven funding. And it's documented that they're doing it. The point is that the system of input-driven funding is not designed for what is the main theme of the cooperation reform, namely preventive health, public health, namely early action. The ISF system is designed to increase hospital activity and stimulate hospital efficiency. That's what was described as the reason for that. The main point here is that the system is not designed for the purpose of this reform. I notice that in that area, the Christian People's Party agrees with the government parties. It is also criticised that they have not wanted to cooperate, that these cooperation invitations, as they are referred to as, were not carried out as they had hoped. An important reason for that was that a good part of the proposals was made as a budget proposal, so they were linked to next year's government budget and were of such an economic nature that it would not be possible to include them in a big message, as this is. It is a big message, it is not a draft budget. However, this does not prevent cooperation in the ordinary committee procedure, because the discussion of issues in the Grand Duchy is done in the committees, and cooperation has been facilitated. A number of proposals made by the opposition have also been included in the majority position. There have been proposals, there has been cooperation, and there have been consultations. We've listened to others, too, not least in terms of the economic model. We have been criticized for not having a clear answer to what it should be like. We've listened to KS, which represents the municipal sector. They want a broader process, where they themselves are involved, before making the final model of how this is to be implemented. So anchoring this in the municipal sector before we introduce it is the way the position has chosen to go, and we're pretty sure it's the right way to go. Other bodies, including The research institute, which was in consultation, recommended the Committee and the Stortinget to do so. We do it that way, and we're amazed that we're being criticized for it. Because that's the only right and safe way to do it in order to implement the cooperation reform as described, and as it is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1735	It was Tybring-Gjedde's posts and questions about Aker Hospital that made me redraw. The very essence of the Interaction Reform is to strengthen the work of municipalities on prevention, so that we can prevent people from getting sick and thus repairing less. When the head of the Oslo FrP warns against shifting responsibility to the municipalities, I am unsure whether he has understood the content of the reform, or whether only his own party refuses to take part in the responsibility. In any case, he does exactly what I warned against in my post: he makes Aker Hospital a piece of a political game rather than focusing on the needs of the citizens of Oslo. It is all designed to allow Aker Hospital to develop into a good interaction hospital with important new health services. It assumes that the Municipality of Oslo will contribute. If Tybring-Gjedde's posts mean that the Progress Party is not willing to do its part of the job, it is sad, and it confirms the impression that the Advance Party is more concerned with party-political self-marking than with cooperating on good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1744	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1747	A very brief comment to the representative Sjöli, who believes that she alone stands for what has been written about rehabilitation in the Committee's comments. That's not the case. The case rapporteur, the representative of Health, was so kind to ask me to write our comments on the chapter on rehabilitation. I did, and I suggest to the representative, Sjøli, that we share the honour of lifting the rehabilitation field, which is such an important field. So I just want to add that we have a lot left before we know enough about the results of the different measures in the rehabilitation field. We have some exciting projects going on, as I mentioned before, that go on labour-oriented rehabilitation. We need more rehabilitation and follow-up near where people live in municipalities, as well as specialist rehabilitation. So we still have a lot to learn in this field, as the rehabilitation field says, and as they also ask us to follow up. We're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1754	The next speaker is the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli, who may share some honor. The representative, Mr Sjøli, had the word twice before and was given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1759	Yes, I would like to share the honours with the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen. My point was that the Council of State said there was a lot about rehabilitation in the main message, but Knutsen and I agree that there was not much. So to Geir-Ketil Hansen. ISF shall not be used for prevention purposes. ISF is used in the specialist health service, and the professional selection I referred to does not find empirical grounds to claim that chronic illness is not a priority. But they actually suggest that more people, including those who are mentally ill and those who need treatment for drug problems, should be covered by that scheme, so that we can treat more people. They should receive the benefit of a system in which it pays to treat patients instead of having people standing in a health queue. SVs and the Government's arrangements involve increased waiting times and health cows while keeping mentally ill and addicted people out of a system that ensures faster treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1768	The representative Erna Solberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1771	The most interesting thing about rehabilitation and the Reform of Cooperation is that we never move on. The first thing that happened when the interaction reform was presented was that all the organisations that worked for more rehabilitation characterised it as a step back. It was less obligating than previous large-scale documents. I see that as a challenge, because we all agree that rehabilitation is important, but we can't get a common priority of it, which means that you get an impact for a escalation. I think it is very special to hear that in a big message and in a settlement discussion you cannot discuss money. I would like to remind you that when we discussed the climate agreement, SV's main requirement for us was that I had to make 10 cents more on the petrol charge in order for SV to be able to live with a climate settlement in the revised national budget in the same year. Of course, it is possible to negotiate money in connection with a settlement. It's possible to negotiate timelines. It is possible to negotiate a lot, but you would not negotiate. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1778	We all agree that Norway has one of the world’s best health services, and we have made a significant effort to treat patients in the years that have passed. But we also agree that patients experience that the services are not interacting well enough, that many patients do not receive equally good care everywhere, and that the offer could be even better in the municipalities. Medical research makes things specialise, that people are treated faster and get even better treatment. One deals with this as a savings reform, but we spend NOK 127 billion on the specialist health service! This reform should add up to how we can spend the money more correctly in healthcare in the years to come. Is growth still going to be in the specialist health service, or is it going to be in other areas? There is agreement on the basis and many of the grips to be taken. There is agreement on the status description of Norwegian health services. There is agreement on the challenge picture, including: with more prevention, better interaction and not least stronger community health services. The majority focus on the timing of preventive health work — including primary prevention work — more clearly than ever before. The majority emphasise the interaction between health services and the education sector. The majority will have a quality assurance of opportunities for further economic incentives in the model, and the majority stress that this is a policy reform, and the Stortinget deals with the matter with overall policy objectives and instruments. Further concreteisation comes in the context of new health and social legislation, the new national health plan and the annual budgets and community proposals, as in all other matters and reforms in the past. The interaction reform will run over time, and is much similar to the Roadmap for Mental Health, which went on for ten years. Change work will be part of health policy and the work on health in progress over the next 10 years. The opposition tries to be a little more clear, but much does not go on change, much goes on measures that are not cost-effective or consistent, such as the recovery plan for drug use, etc. The opposition will merge municipalities, the opposition charms medical groups in relation to better municipal governance and management, and the opposition excludes economic incentives towards municipalities. As I said, we want to see this as a policy reform and how we can achieve better interaction. There is a lot of interaction, as Mr Højbråten said, today, and we must support it through this reform. Then the measures will be taken in the new cases presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1796	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen has spoken twice before and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1799	A final comment on this with the ISF and specialist health services in Sonja Irene Sjølis: My point and the position is that when basic funding is increased, incentives are also put in the specialist health service, which is to be associated with the incentives that must be in the community health service to bring about prevention, interaction, public health and rehabilitation. The point is that you can't have one type of incentive in the specialist health service that goes in the opposite direction to the incentives that have to be in the community health service. This must hang in the hope, this must be interaction. That's the point in the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1804	It was the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen's previous post that prompted me to take the floor again, for there are some explanations of why the Government has not wanted to deal with the opposition on its perhaps most important health policy issue in this period, which is not a believer. Firstly, it was claimed that the opposition’s demands contained so many budgetary questions that there was in themselves a basis for rejecting settlement negotiations – budgets cannot be negotiated in the context of a wholesale notification. It's not many days since the country's prime minister was in Washington and received a prize. He received a price for the solid bet Norway has put in to save the rainforest. How was that bet, which amounts to billions of dollars, coming in and becoming Norwegian policy? It wasn't thanks to the Prime Minister or his government. It was thanks to the opposition parties that offered the Government a settlement in this matter. It is a glaring example of the fact that precisely in the Great Britain's handling of a big big big message, budgetary issues have been debated – not decided, but negotiated them and agreed on them. And the government takes honor and honor for it abroad. The second argument from the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen was that one did not have to criticise the Government to expose some of the difficult questions, because there was a need for a broader anchoring – a better process. And then I have to ask: is there any example of a big message that has become available through a broader embedded process than the big message that we are dealing with here today? If there's really something the government needs to pay attention to, then it's the amazing political workshop they've set in motion around interaction around the country. So claiming that there is a need for even more political workshop and even wider anchoring is also not a believer. That's why this is finally going to be a question of accepting the outstretched hand that the opposition gave, because we're intensely concerned that patients are going to experience a more holistic healthcare system. And you wouldn't! Maybe you couldn't, because you were so dissenting internally -- what do I know? In any case, it is a fact that the treatment of the wholesale notification at such a significant point as the funding system leaves more questions after the spillover than before the spillover. Then you have to ask, where is this majority regime that said, we don't have to negotiate, we can just act. In this case one has not negotiated, one has not traded, nor has one been able to negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1815	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2966]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1831	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1840	It is always exciting to be the case rapporteur for a matter that concerns a subject that you yourself are particularly concerned about, as I have been told in this matter. The representative proposal from the Left concerns a desire for better drug treatment. The Committee endorses a description of the reality that points out that drug addicts have poor health, poor or lack of housing, lack of work and poor social networks. An overall committee notes that care is not satisfactory and that it lacks a holistic approach. An overall committee also supports a comment that points out that part of the problem is due to the fact that regional health companies, municipalities, county councils and various state budget posts are funding care and are thus contributing to the failure of an overall approach that takes account of individual needs. So probably many who read this touching consensus about care and its shortcomings will think that an overall committee will also come up with more concrete proposals for improvement. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The current situation is characterised by too long waiting times, large differences in supply, waiting times between interventions and lack of after-sales protection. As Terje told me, more than 30 years as a drug addict teach you a lot about what went wrong. He lost the count with the number of overdoses and thought he must have been on detoxification nearly a hundred times. But he had control of the number of treatment courses. It amounts to 16. Imagine if the system had followed me up the first time, or the second time, or at least the third time I was in treatment, instead of waiting until the 16th time. Then society had saved a lot of money, then, he says, and added: And I had lived a more normal life to the joy of more than myself. This story is not unique, it merges into the series of thousands. In this case, there is a concrete proposal for improvement, but the government parties will not vote for any of these. Does the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party really mean anything? Yes, they believe that the care services are not good, and they admit faults and deficiencies, but are therefore unable to propose anything at all. Their response to these challenges is the same as in all other areas, namely to show that there has never been more money. The fact that there have been several people waiting for an offer, while we have had a general wage and price increase, means that, of course, you have to give more money to do the same. For me, therefore, the standard statement that there has never been more money, just another confirmation that you don't know what you want to get, and that the level of ambition is equal to zero. The Government Party’s response to the challenges has been reduced to nothing. If the sickest and the most dubious ever get the belief in a life without rush and pain, one must at least be willing to improve the system. We have tried this repeatedly on the part of the Progress Party, both with constructive proposals and increased appropriations, in order to implement the proposals. And we're trying again. We promote something so fundamental in this matter as to comply with the law. Repeatedly, the Health Inspectorate has identified shortcomings in an individual level, as the National Audit Office has pointed out the same, as well as that we have repeatedly been told by drug users themselves or their relatives. Promoting measures to ensure compliance with the law may be so difficult for government parties to vote in favour of. This is, after all, the seventh and last responsibility of the Minister of Health. In the vote there are several proposals that the Progress Party has on its own or is in agreement with other parties, and I am addressing these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1866	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1869	It's an important thing that's being addressed here. People with drug problems are people who often need many services from different service providers across levels, sectors — and not least in these areas at the same time. Prevention must target individuals, groups and society. One cannot direct this towards only one area, and the aim must be to get early action. I think many people recognize themselves, either in their community or at their workplaces, or among family and friends: one sees individuals struggling with a drug problem, but in a way, we don't want as individuals to interfere and enter into such processes, because it's always unpleasant. I think we all have a great responsibility there. The treatment must be interdisciplinary and must be offered to individuals, not least couples, families, relatives — all affected when people get into a drug problem. The government's policy is to treat and prevent harmful drug use and addiction earlier and far better than what we do today. Prevention is about alcohol availability. Prevention is also about the price of alcohol. A drug problem is not just about drugs — it may start in very different areas. The issue of early intervention and having good low-threshold offers when people come to that level is important. But at the same time, it is also important to have strengthened housing and services in municipalities, not least when people have a drug problem. Many also suffer from mental illness. An outpatient team of DPS and ACT teams has been established to assist in this work. Lowthreshold provision for drug addicts is important. In a previous debate on the state budget, Hveita United, which is a football game where drug addicts can come together several times a week and engage in physical activity, is mentioned. For many, all the established offers are too difficult to participate in. This government presented its drug plan with a number of implementing measures. The measures adopted by the Storting are almost 100 per cent met by the Government — and implemented. The Committee acknowledges, as the rapporteur also said, that many drug addicts have poor health, lack of social networking, poor and inadequate housing, etc., and that drug care is not satisfactory and lacks a holistic approach. This country is a complex country in terms of welfare services, how the tasks are distributed, etc., and therefore it is important – also in relation to the case we are dealing with in place – to have a better interaction between primary health services and specialist health services, and not least the private and non-profit actors in this area. This needs to be reviewed and improved at all levels, no matter where you are in society. It is important that care is based on more than just idealism, and that there are professional criteria that must be taken into account for the treatment to be administered. For all healthcare, the quality of treatment provision is the most important thing. This is also the case in the context of the Interaction Reform, what needs to be specialised and what needs to be decentralised, so that those in need of help are properly treated in the right place and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1884	I would like to point out that the Right supports proposal No. 1, to ensure that russants are given an hour to outpatient or other treatment immediately and no later than 24 hours after detoxification, and proposal No. 2, on measures to follow up an individual plan — that there will be real content for this patient group. I would like to thank the proposers for addressing an important topic, although a proposal by a representative in this context will in reality only be able to scratch the surface in relation to the major challenges facing us in this area. Then it is natural to refer to the debate in the previous case, where the opposition proposed a contingency plan for the drug field. For information on the position, a step-up plan involves something more than financial liabilities. This includes, inter alia: clarification of the questions raised by the representative of Asphjell in his statement. This is precisely why this sector has lacked a stepping-up plan since the sector was actually transferred to the specialist health service. The sector has not been adequately clarified, either in terms of division of labour, division of roles and responsibilities between the different parties, the position of the relatives, the prevention work, the professionalism of the various offers and a number of other issues that remain unresolved, such as: granting patient rights to this group with a real content. It does not today because patients’ rights are adapted to a completely different patient group. Therefore, this patient group does not have rights with real content, as intended by the Storting. It is a patient group that continues to be systematically discriminated against in the healthcare system, using entirely different criteria to assess the need for immediate help and treatment by this patient group. This could have cleared up with a systematic and absolutely necessary review in this area that a stepping-up plan could mean. But once again, you can see that the government parties are not willing to do an escalation or clarification that they, with very fine words in the setting, agree to describe is necessary. So when the Right supports these proposals, it's to try to contribute a little bit to putting this matter back on the agenda, even though we on our side acknowledge that questions related to this are not resolved until you get a stepping-up plan. Then we know that the Stoltenberg Committee will soon come with its setting. Then I'm afraid that the necessary discussions related to the lack of treatment for this patient group are again drowning in a discussion about heroin use or not being treated – a derailment of a debate for an important patient group, on a topic that, at best, may help a few very few, but which is an effective tool by the Government to meet the needs of all the 4,600 who are now in line for treatment. That's what we know works.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1895	Clearly, we need to give more help and better help to those who are addicted to drugs. We have to bet on what works, and there is a wide range of measures that need to be taken. It is about better prevention, better treatment and more stringent responses to drug supply. Many drug addicts have poor health, are homeless, have labour-related difficulties, have poor economy and little social networking. This requires broad approaches when providing assistance and treatment. Whole treatment courses are required, from detoxification to treatment, and then a dense and extensive back-up. While taking action to help, we need to do much more to prevent more and more young people becoming drug addicts. Prevention is not enough in the established settings of drug use. The Official Journal of Bergen reported last week that recruitment to the drug treatment settings no longer took place in the established settings of the centre, but in the districts. This is where prevention has to be done. Such prevention will bring great social benefits. The report presented in the evening post now on Monday illustrates this gain well. Researchers from Vista Analysis have found that 100 young people who come to work instead of being dissatisfied give a profit to society of $1 billion. I'm going to think that the gain is higher per cent. Young people who are rescued from becoming a socialised drug addict. We can't afford not to collect such a prize! So prevention has to be done locally. The municipalities must take on the leadership jersey, which must help to get the kids off to a good start. We have to avoid that so many are losing in high school. Schools, health services and the police must be required to cooperate more closely. Russ problems need to be central to the annual debate on the health status of municipalities, which any local government should have. Voluntary organisations that do well must have longer-term contracts that ensure predictability and quality. There must be more rental homes and help to accommodate those who need them. Then I'd like to talk about double-diagnosed rushes and psychiatry. People with double-diagnosed rushes and psychiatry have had a far too bad offer for too many years. The patient population is also strongly growing. From my own experience as a medical doctor, I remember very well the despair of both doctors and patients over the lack of treatment. If the patient had promille at the same time as he or she had a more or less acute psychiatric disorder, he or she was rejected both for detoxification and for hospitalisation in the psychiatry, or in the medical department. The alternative was to ask the patient to go home, or to go out on the street again, and come back when he or she either had just a drug problem or just a psychiatric problem. We can't have it like that. It is therefore extremely important to improve the treatment provision for those with dual diagnosis of drug use and psychiatry. All those who are motivated for treatment must receive treatment quickly. This means that capacity needs to be increased. Anyone who comes out of detoxification must have a shortcut for further help. It is therefore positive in my view that the Soria Moria II Government insists on the establishment of a rusakutt reception in the largest cities. This will prevent many swing door spaces and contribute to a more holistic treatment system. I also expect that the new regulations for LAR, which we got this winter, will help more people get help faster. The proposal of the Progress Party that the money should follow the user can be sounded provocative. But this will not provide incentives for prevention and early intervention, because then there will be disease established as a gateway to meet costs. In the view of the Centre Party, this is therefore not an appropriate method of funding to strengthen the drug field. What is a point, on the other hand, is that work within the drug field must be eligible for specialist medical training. This must be addressed when the Government, as announced in the National Health Plan 2007–2010, undertakes a broad review of specialist medical training, both in terms of organisation and content.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1916	It is regrettable that the much-mentioned escalation plan for the drug field has had so few visible results. Ruspacers need to wait longer and longer to get to treatment. The treatment period is also reduced, contrary to the recommendations of professionals, and without any improvement in the follow-up in the municipality. Instead of focusing on implementing the current drug field plan, the Government has reduced a sample assessing controversial interventions, such as heroin on prescription. I believe this is wrong. The Christian People's Party is concerned that drug-free treatment must be an objective of the Norwegian healthcare system. Once the individual addict has lost hope, others have to keep it up. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential to seal the gaps in the drug addict's treatment chain. It is obvious that treatment must start immediately after detoxification — and not weeks or months later. Therefore, the Left’s proposal to introduce a model that ensures drug-dependent hours for outpatient or other treatment within 24 hours of detoxification is a very good one. At the same time, this will reveal a lack of treatment sites. We support this. As has emerged both now and earlier, ruspacers are one of the target groups that really need better interaction between health care levels, but also with other sectors. The proposal for a national escalation plan for the drug field in parallel with the introduction of an interaction reform will be correct and important. Many drug addicts are currently lacking adapted housing facilities that can provide the framework for using other interventions. Good lowthreshold measures are also lacking locally. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal for action to ensure that the right to an individual level is respected. Individual levels must be made a work tool on the user’s premises. It is also sad that we have a government that allows treatment places in private nonprofit institutions to be available while the queues are growing. This primarily affects addicts – to a large extent. But it also affects the voluntary organisations operating the institutions. The General Organisation of Trade and Service Industries, HSH, has stated that these institutions will disappear within five to ten years if current practice is not changed. Yes, many have already been gone in recent years. Last week the Prime Minister showed the consideration of the law on public acquisitions, the EEA Agreement and the quality of services from private non-profit institutions to what he calls ‘welfare production’. What he does not say is that services are taken away from the ideal actors and are to be done by the public itself. Examples include detoxification and medically assisted rehabilitation. Yes, with a pen stroke, private NPISHs are completely cut off from contributing to these services – after providing these services, they have been responsible for these services for many years. Today's tendering practices make the ideal institutions competitors. It prevents the development of professional environments across institutions and also the possibility to merge. These tendering procedures prevent continuity, provide little predictability, and long-term investment in quality measures and buildings becomes too risky. It is a wish that the Government must change its mind on this. Ideal drug institutions are not factories or producers. They consist of people, they treat people, they have competence and experience. They form a very important part of health care in Norway and are an important corrigendum. This must be the government and everybody understand before it gets too late, before they're gone. It is an illusion to believe that a pure public service is the only blessing. Finally, in the case of double diagnosis, which was taken up here instead, I would just like to remind you that there was a matter which, to a large extent, took up former Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten, perhaps as the first to address this in various documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1939	I would first like to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of the Left's proposal for a representative, and thank the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party for including the Left's proposals in the vote. This is a very important topic. Most of us probably know someone who doesn't deal with his everyday life without having to rush. There may be many causes — mental problems and/or an increase in care failures, abuses and infringements. Too many people get drunk a self-medication. I see and hear here today in the debate that the red-greens support Left's intentions to improve the conditions for those addicts. However, they are satisfied with the Government’s efforts in this field, although the plan of escalation to which they refer has produced few visible results. Continued increases the waiting time for treatment. The left is concerned that drug services provide a safe and stable treatment base that also focuses on the reasons why individuals become addicted to drugs. Drug addicts with mental disorders, as well as their drug dependence, must receive optimal psychiatric treatment. Such treatment requires relationships with persons who are competent to guide how they can live with their past without alcohol. It is therefore important to strengthen the social and psychological element of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The left is concerned that the use of an individual plan needs to be strengthened in the care of rural people. The objective must be integrated treatment of drug dependence and mental disorders. It is a major problem in the care of drug users that the queues for treatment are long. Today it stands about. 4 000 people in line for multidisciplinary specialised treatment. Over the last ten years, over 2,000 people have lost their lives due to overdose. There are often many months of waiting before drug users who have been on detoxification receive follow-up and treatment. This considers the Left to be unacceptable. Ruspacers need to enter outpatient or other treatment much faster than they are currently receiving. There is the greatest risk of overdose immediately after detoxification because the body of addicts is often weak after detoxification. The left will point out that it's just in this period that it's important to get help. Societal economics is also, in the opinion of the Left, very unfortunate to use large financial resources on patients who are released directly into the street without follow-up. This was also the case rapporteur inside his post. Many overdoses and deaths could have been avoided if the system had been set up so that one hour to treatment with once detoxification was completed. This system, in our opinion, must also be in place in Norway. Today, treatment in the specialised health services in the field of drugs is characterised by too many idealists. Compared to the rest of the specialist health service, ruspacers have been working on low status. This makes the drug field not interesting enough, especially not for the medical profession. In order to attract more doctors and more competence, it is important that drugs become a specialty for doctors. At present, both psychologists, sociologists and nurses have the opportunity to specialise in drug treatment. The games don't have it. Approving drugs as a medical specialist is a very important step in raising their status and recruiting better to the subject area. Finally, the queues for treatment in LAR are very long, causing many drug users to give up while waiting. In order to prevent overdose deaths, where possible, the Left wishes to launch a pilot project in which deputies with special competence and interest in rubrics may be given the opportunity to prescribe appropriate medical treatment, e.g. Subutex. At the same time, doctors should be closely monitored by these patients. The drug should be free of charge for the patient and the financial instrument as much as possible of other financial instruments, such as: blue prescription. A similar project has been tested in France, where they have had very good experience with it. The project should be monitored by the Health Authority and evaluated after two years. I am disappointed that the red-greens will not go into more obligatory measures for this patient group that may be at the very bottom of our social rank.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1954	As representatives of Skei Grande and Tenden, I am concerned that drug addicts will receive the best possible services. Of course, the starting point for drug policy is that drug dependence is to be controlled, not drug addicts. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is concerned about this point and has the focus on how to improve services. The government’s drug policy has as its overall objective the reduction of the negative impacts of drug use on individuals and on society. The overall objective of services for those with drug problems is to ensure better and more accessible services and to promote inclusion. Looking back on time, treatment services for drug addicts have improved considerably. Capacity has increased, quality has been enhanced and the availability of other specialist healthcare services has improved, in particular mental health protection. At the same time, there is a general consensus that supply to drug addicts is not yet satisfactory and that there is a lack of a whole. I therefore have great expectations that, when we continue to work with the Interaction Reform, the services for drug addicts will appear more comprehensively and collectively, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. We are now in the last year of the escalating plan for the drug field. Through the escalation plan, the level of allocation has increased by 835 million. kr for the period 2006-2010. In addition, the strengthening of the municipal economy and the strengthening of the basic appropriations for the RHFs as well as the Government's poverty response will be achieved. Although much has been done in the field of drugs in recent years, there are still considerable unmet needs, as the representative proposal and the committee point out. In view of the challenges we still face in the field of drugs, the Government will use the next few years to systematically build capacity and competence in prevention, awareness-raising, treatment, rehabilitation and aftercare. Services shall be of good quality, characterised by good cooperation between levels and between public and private bodies. I will come back to Stortinget in a suitable way to explain how I want to follow up the further work on the drug field. So to the proposal to facilitate medical care in the drug field, this is a matter for medical specialists: this is a matter for the National Council for Medical Specialist Training and Medical Distribution in a short time. There has been a general problem, which the representative tended to have recruited doctors to work in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts, but fortunately there has been a significant improvement in recent years. Patients with the most serious disorders should be given the highest priority in the specialist healthcare service – it is clear in the priority regulation. If acute is considered, treatment should be started immediately. Of course, this also applies to drug addicts. One challenge in drug treatment is, unfortunately, that many drug addicts still do not feel the context of treatment. This needs to be addressed by regional health establishments, and this is underlined in the year’s mission document. Many drug addicts need complex and coordinated long-term services, but the auxiliaries are not good enough to provide a holistic and coordinated patient profile. In particular, it fails in the transition between different levels and between sectors of services. This was pointed out by a working group working on longitudinal projections in the context of the Cooperation Reform. Progression is central to the follow-up to the reform. As the Committee also refers to, from the New Year onwards, a new regulation has been laid down for LAR. This regulation requires the specialist healthcare service to assess the need for LAR and any initiation of treatment. As a general rule, LAR should not be the first choice as to the type of treatment the drug addict is deemed to need. At the same time as this regulation, the Health Directorate issued national guidelines for LAR. This opens up the possibility that, after consultation with specialist health services, physicians may obtain medicinal products within a time-limited, clearly defined and multidisciplinary phasing-out plan prior to the start of LAR.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1977	I have more and more experience of getting enquiries from private or non-profit institutions that tell me that their treatment services run for half the machine, i.e. they have several vacancies that are available, or that they have to shut down because too few spaces are used to make it possible to continue operating properly. The Council of State is responsible for ensuring that there are good offers and that the law is followed, and should be life-saving for the developments that have taken place in recent years. Competence and diversity are crumbling, while waiting time and the number of queues are increasing. The next few years, we're going to build up the capacity, said the Council of State. The opposite happens now, so the question is, how many years does the government really need?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1986	There is no doubt that there is an increasing need for capacity in this area, within treatment sites and follow-up in general in specialist health services. It is also true that the number of people receiving treatment has increased significantly, although unfortunately we have not had the queues down. That's why we're working on capacity across this sector, as I said in my post, and will continue to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e1991	Governments have described the problems themselves: queues have not been able to be brought down, and the escalation plan for the drug field has produced few visible results, and the waiting time for this group continues to increase. The follow-up has not become more holistic with the risk of falling out of treatment between detoxification and treatment, while in treatment, and in the transition between treatment discontinuation and follow-up. The Left has promoted a proposal, supported by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, on an action to prevent detoxification and further treatment. It is to put in place a system in which drug addicts who are admitted to detoxification are given hours in outpatient or other treatment at the latest within 24 hours after detoxification. What is the reason why the Government cannot support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2000	In principle, it is a fascinating suggestion that just by introducing a 24-hour right, you should be able to get a complete course of patient treatment, i.e. between different agencies. However, we need to work systematically to increase capacity and to improve interaction between the different levels, not least between municipalities and specialist health services. It is not that the government parties oppose that we are able to achieve better interaction, on the contrary, this is very important. One of the very concrete measures in this context is rusakut where you can just achieve it. We need more of that kind of action. We will continue to work on interaction, because it is very important, especially for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2005	The draft representative from the Left in the position reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate a pilot project in which decision-makers with special competence and interest in Ruspacents may be given the opportunity to distribute free of charge appropriate medical treatment (equivalent to Subutex [[...]] What does the Council of State think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2015	As I also said in my post, the Health Directorate issued national guidelines for LAR. This opens up the possibility for decision-makers, in consultation with specialist healthcare, to obtain medicinal products within a time-limit of clearly defined and multidisciplinary phasing-out plan. But this applies before the start of LAR. Otherwise, I would like to say that in general, LAR and LAR treatment are to be provided by the specialist healthcare service. This is the scheme I referred to first. These apply to permanent practitioners who are required to assist in medical treatment during a transitional phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2020	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2040	At the end of a long day, it became an important and serious matter. The Health Authority reports, as announced in the interview, that at least nine children die each year as a result of care failure and abuse. The supervision goes on to say that this is just the top of the iceberg. I'm worried that health services don't take their responsibility for the least serious enough. In the supervisory report we hear about a case in which a five-year-old boy dies as a result of abuse. Many instances saw what happened. No intervention. Another case that is told about is an attacker who tells about his actions towards a child. Neither the manager nor the management takes responsibility for notifying. The man joins himself in the end, after conversations with the psychologist. These stories are very serious, and it's completely unacceptable that we don't have the ability to capture such cases. If the health services themselves do not take sufficient care of the problems, they need to be trained and instructed. I think the value of a society is measured by how we can take care of those who have the most difficulty. The reporting obligation under the Health Care Act is our – that is, society – response to how to ensure that children are seen. The obligation to give a message when you register that something is wrong is a great responsibility. It is understandable that health professionals find it difficult to report. Maybe you're afraid to suspect parents for no reason. Many of us may have even seen children in a situation where we wonder if everything is as it should be. And then there's always a room for discretion there. Our message to health professionals must be: report from once too much – child protection is there to help children. Many may ask how to deal with anxiety and suspicion. It must be the responsibility of the individual to notify directly to the protection of children. As far as child safety is concerned, we are no longer talking about addressing the problem of the service path. Overall, there is no right to assess the suspicion of care failure or abuse. It's just the person who treats the child, who has the opportunity to do it. Leaders must provide their employees with security and support on these issues. It's not their job to control the individual's concerns. Child protection is our common device to take care of the most defenseless among us, but we know that the system doesn't work if adults don't dare say so. It is better to send a message of concern too much than to have a child suffer suffering we could have prevented. It is particularly important that public personnel take this very seriously. Time and again, we have seen bad things — abuse, care failure and even death. In many of these cases it appears that health professionals and other public servants have neglected their statutory obligation to notify. The child minister has warned that child protection is his main concern, and the government prioritises child protection. We live in an open society. Child protection has no opportunity to – and should not – monitor everything we do. Therefore, the community has a role to play with vulnerable children. We know that approx. 90 pst. by the messages of concern received by the protection of children are from persons other than the protection of children themselves. In order for children to be entitled to assistance, and in a timely manner, all child protection messages must be made at the earliest possible time. Then the help works best. It gives us responsibility to say from. Health authorities must take action to provide health professionals with the safety of reporting. Child protection must have a good dialogue with health professionals and a safe framework must be created to notify. In order to achieve this, healthcare professionals need to be safe on child protection. If the system fails anyway, I believe we need to look at how it should be handled. It can't be that people who risk their children's lives by not trading, don't experience any kind of reaction. Health surveillance recommends that the low level of notifications be defined as a risk area. I ask the Minister for Health to put this question high on the agenda for the future, and refer to the question I have raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2063	We are all shaken by news about children who are subjected to serious care failure or child abuse. It is therefore a very bad, but very important theme that interpellant Geir-Ketil Hansen addresses. It is difficult to assume that adults can mistreat children they have in their care. I would like to commend the media who have had unmerciful reports of child abuse, abuse and care failure. These have shown what happens to the children when health professionals and others fail to notify child protection or police. Violence and abuse against children concern us all, and we must not let it happen behind closed doors. That is why the public debate on child abuse is so important. Creating a good upbringing for children — without neglect or child abuse — is one of the most important things we can do. The earlier we manage to catch children who are hurt, the better we can help them. Preventing child abuse and care failure is a common effort for several departments and agencies and for services for all levels. At the same time, however, we all have a duty to contact child protection, police or other auxiliaries if we are concerned that children may be subjected to violence or other forms of abuse. Of course, the authorities have their share of responsibility. The government has placed children and young people on the agenda, and we have strengthened our work towards vulnerable groups of children and young people. Work on violence against children, violence in close relations and the work on the legal position of children who are dependent on great efforts for the Government. We have a good code through health professionals law, child protection law, criminal law and circulars from several agencies and departments. The Health Care Act clearly states that health professionals are obliged to notify when they suspect abuse or serious care failure. If there is reason to believe that a death is unnatural, doctors are obliged to inform the police as soon as possible. It's an obligation you can't choose to ignore, and that goes ahead of the obligation of confidentiality. As is well known, health services should soon be able to offer site-of-death testing in all cases where children between the ages of zero and three die unexpectedly and suddenly. The offer will be open from 1 November. With such research, we can gather knowledge so that we can be better at preventing such events. The reporting obligation will be changed so that it becomes clear that all findings that can help clarify the cause of death will be handed over to the police. State health surveillance has taken a promise to improve health care awareness of violence, abuse and failure to care for children. Multiple supervision has shown that some health professionals do not comply with the statutory obligation to provide information to child protection services and police. Nor do they have management systems and procedures to ensure that health professionals comply with the notification requirement. The Children’s Ombudsman has drawn attention to the possibility for dental practitioners to detect oral and oral lesions as a result of an assault. Dental professionals have an obligation to provide information and information about social services and the provision of child protection services — as is the case with all other health professionals. I have prepared the dental staff's duties to the Children's Ombudsman and have asked the Health Directorate to contribute to the establishment of good practice in the County Dental Service, so that suspicion of care failure is reported to the appropriate authority. A new report from the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has identified the extent of cases of suspected physical child abuse in all 21 child wards of the country. In one year, 70 cases were detected that were investigated because of suspicion of maltreatment. The children were from one week to 14 years old. Half of them were less than twelve months old. The report estimates that paediatric patients are investigating fewer than 100 cases per year where physical abuse is suspected. The knowledge centre is concerned that there are few references from a health centre, a medical care centre and a general practitioner. I will review the report's recommendations, including: the proposal to establish a multidisciplinary team to investigate child abuse in all hospitals. A circular from the Health Directorate describes the duties of health professionals and the right to provide information to the child protection service, the police and the social services. The circular is a good starting point for health professionals to comply with the alert obligation in the event of a care failure. Nevertheless, it is not always possible for healthcare professionals to comply with the alert requirement. State health surveillance points out that it may be because they have little knowledge of signs of abuse and abuse, they fear criticism and threats from their parents, they are anxious to go to the media or as witnesses to the court, and they fear to contribute to an indication culture. There are also many who hope and believe that others have already notified or that someone else will do so in the near future. I will – together with the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Minister for Justice – develop a guide on how health care, child protection and police can cooperate when there is a suspicion of care failure and child abuse. We have to put in place clear procedures that make it easy to alert on suspicion of an infringement. I am pleased that we now have children’s homes throughout the country – in Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, Oslo, Trondheim and Tromsø. This is a cross-ministerial cooperation under the direction of the Ministry of Justice. The aim of children’s homes is that court hearings, medical examinations and treatment can be offered at the same place. A few healthcare companies have concluded cooperation agreements between healthcare companies and the police in cases where children may have been exposed to violence and sexual abuse. This is a good initiative. I would therefore ask all regional health companies to establish such agreements with all health businesses. Furthermore, I would like to send a circular to all municipalities to ensure that health professionals in the municipalities should pay more attention to the obligation to provide information to the child protection service. I am very serious about the abuse of children in Norway. Health professionals have an important role to play in alerting suspects of child abuse. We need to find good cooperation models and good information flows within the specialist health service and with the municipalities, in particular child protection, kindergartens, schools, law enforcement agencies, health care services and the police, which can ensure that children who are exposed to violence or care failure receive rapid and good follow-up. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2093	I thank you for the answer, and I must also say that I am satisfied with it. I heard and felt that the Council of State pointed to a number of measures that have been taken, and that are done not least to improve information and guidance to health care and public sector workers – if I heard correctly – in order to get better practice on this by alerting and getting security in relation to alerting. As both the undersigned and the Council of State have mentioned in their statements, and as the Health Inspectorate's report states, it is clear from both the Health and Child Protection Act that there is a clear responsibility, one has a clear duty to warn. So I think, as I said, that the measures that the Council of State has now announced will help to follow up what the Health Authority writes in its report, namely that it believes that healthcare should take a boost in order to improve the warning of violence and the abuse and care failure of children and to identify it not to say off as a risk area. That's a pretty strong signal from the surveillance. I thank you for the answer and feel that what the supervision advertises is now being followed up by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2104	This is an important topic, as I also said in the introduction to my article. What I'm experiencing is the most important thing we can do further work on is to make the responsibility visible, to underline the duty we have to alert, to become much more aware, to develop the guide between the three departments, which will be important in order to create the security of alerts, which were also involved in the interpellant, and to put in place clear procedures that prevent children from suffering, and that children suffer unnecessarily because adults do not take responsibility and inform. Luckily, this is a topic that has been given increasing attention, and therefore we also have reason to believe that we are going further. But it is clear that a lot of attention is needed here, there is a need for pressure, and here there is a need to make responsibilities and duties visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2111	The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18 for the continued examination of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting will be Kari Kønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2144	I had prepared an article for the interpellation, but I need first to raise a matter that was on the P4 news this morning, which I think is quite well connected with the interpellation – that pedophiles who are asking for help must wait for two years to get help. Pedofile often tends to think that they don't have a problem, or they won't realize that they have a problem. But when someone actually realizes this and asks for help, I think it's unacceptable that you have to wait two years. Stine Sofies Foundation, who received Alvheim's award at the National Meeting of the Advancement Party this weekend, has been working for ten years to improve the legal security of children and to give them a child-free childhood. So today we are told that the lack of appropriations means that people who feel they are a danger to children are not getting help. There is no shortage of staff, but lack of appropriations, we are informed. This makes me angry, and it scares me. I expect the Minister of Health to ensure that the necessary appropriations are given, so that we can avoid abuse of the buckets and buckets, as Thore Langfeldt put it. Sexual assault on children gives them scars in the soul that never go away. It would have been nice if we didn't experience that health professionals detect child abuse, but the interview is about the time this happens, they have an obligation to report it. And it is apparent from the 2009 Health Inspectorate of the State for Health that health professionals report too little abuse of children for the protection of children, despite the fact that § 33 of the Health Care Professional Act imposes reporting obligations on health professionals. The supervisory notice indicates that every year, on average, nine persons under three years of age die as a result of mistreatment or care failure by their loved ones. It is a cross-thinking that such serious abuses take place against innocent individuals who are totally defenceless and who are independently responsible for the care of health professionals through the reporting obligation. It is therefore frightening to note that the Health Authority suggests that this is just the top of the iceberg. Equally alarming is the fact that the notification describes that health professionals who receive the evidence of an offender’s confession do not report this and that this results in more children being subjected to abuse. For this purpose, supervision has given a warning to four psychiatrists and a nurse. In my opinion, it is then in place to ask questions about what is needed in order for health professionals to receive more severe sanctions or reactions. It will be very important that, in the cases identified by the Health Inspectorate, sanctions are actually imposed which emphasize the seriousness of the case to a greater extent than is the case today. As a member of the Billing Compensation Committee, now called the Board of Directors' Committee on Judicial Remuneration, I have been involved in providing compensation for children who have been subjected to abuse and care failure, and where the public did not do its duty to stop this, despite being familiar with the issue. The applications go back to the 1940s and are valid until today. At some point we must be able to learn from our past mistakes and omissions. In the recent meeting of the Health and Safety Committee with the State Health Authority, Director Lars E. Hanssen expressed concern that they apparently did not learn from their mistakes. He said that in a ghostly tone he often said that if you absolutely have to make some mistakes, someone who has not previously been done does. And, he added, this doesn't really have to be a joke, because the truth is that all the mistakes that can be made are committed. And if you were to make a mistake that has not been made in the past, there are actually no new mistakes to be found. Many municipalities have established so-called multidisciplinary teams, where professionals from different environments meet. If these teams are used in a good and proper way and involve all disciplines dealing with children, all cases of care failure and child abuse should be detected at an early stage. As I see it, there are more professional environments than people working in health who fail to notify. That is why we need to expand our focus and put it high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2172	I will give tribute to the interpellant Geir-Ketil Hansen for addressing one of the most important questions we need to address, namely how we better protect children from abuse and care failure. As the representative Hansen points out, it is estimated that nine children under the age of three die every year of care failure and abuse. This is so heartrending and so tragic that you can't understand the suffering that's behind the numbers. It is really thoughtful that this does not characterize political debates, headlines and newscasts to a greater extent, given the seriousness of this. Maybe these things are so bad to deal with that we refuse to go into them, but the discomfort we feel is nothing against the suffering these children are suffering. That's why we have to do everything we can to avoid this happening, both as a fellow human being, as a health professional and as a politician. Children are initially offered to their caregivers. When parents or others do not discharge their responsibilities to provide care, or engage in regular abuse, it is a fundamental betrayal of the child. When someone knows what children are exposed to, but does not act, it is a new betrayal of the child. We all have a moral responsibility to report from when children are subjected to care failure or abuse, but health professionals stand here in a special position, both legally and by virtue of their competence. They come in contact more often than others with vulnerable children; they often get in-depth knowledge of their situation. In addition, they have a specific competence and responsibility to contribute to the care of patients’ health in a broad sense. The 2009 Supervisory Communication refers to a case in which four psychiatrists and one nurse failed to report that one of their patients was child victims, even though the patient himself had informed that he committed the offences. This also led to a new child being subjected to abuse. The health personnel escaped with a warning and the children likely with injuries to their lives. Health oversight considers this to be not a single example but an expression of an unculture. This means that the systems we have set up are not working well enough. This also means that we as health politicians must help clean up. In addition to the excellent proposals presented by the Council of State in its statement, which I think are very good and which we will support, I would ask the Council of State to provide a campaign to train health professionals to assess signs of care failure according to the guidance provided. At the same time, it is necessary to provide detailed information on the significant responsibilities of healthcare professionals, as required by the information obligation. It must be clearly stated that in these cases it is not acceptable to see another way and expect someone else to take responsibility, to say that this is not my table or to protect themselves behind the obligation of professional secrecy. We have to challenge leaders at all levels to take responsibility for the fact that health professionals do not interfere with the ranks of those who failed a child. Healthcare professionals shall not consider the need for action; they shall do so, but they shall report on suspicion of care failure and abuse in order to assess the situation of child protection. Although the reporting obligation of health professionals is crucial, this is not, of course, the only means of protecting children from care failure and abuse. First of all, parents and other caregivers are responsible for giving children good growth conditions. We need to provide better help for vulnerable families. We know that children of addicts and mentally ill are particularly vulnerable, and we need to target prevention better in relation to these children. The right has therefore been committed to strengthening health care and the follow-up of vulnerable families. When parents do not provide the children with proper care, we must have child protection that can offer a better offer than today. This is about resources — competence and organisation. I agree with former Chief of Police Finn Abrahamsen who has said that we must have better child protection, not just parental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2193	Unfortunately, many children are rescued in Norway too, and they really need many more courageous adults, both politicians and health care workers, but also health care workers, in schools, in kindergartens – yes, wherever you get in touch with children who can experience care failure. I hope that the matter of Christoffer will be a turning point in view of the way this has been handled in the healthcare system. Now it is actually raised case in this case. I am also familiar with another case from Vestfold, where both health professionals and other employees in the school and care sector have known – they should have seen, should have seen and should have done something. I am very pleased with the interpellation, for the answer given by the Council of State and for the measures now being launched, because they are absolutely necessary. Knowing what to look for, and not least knowing what to do and how to do it when you get into such a situation, is very important. I have a long experience after 17 years as a nursery assistant and can't exactly say that I'm not familiar with the subject. The problem then was that when you told the child protection department, nothing happened. The only thing that happened was that the parents lost confidence in the kindergarten -- which maybe was the only place the child was in during the day when it was safe -- that the family moved, or that child protection did not judge and saw the same thing as the kindergarten saw, and had resources to follow up. Yes, even I have experienced that psych professionals have said that they will choose to give resources to children in families where their parents are interested and willing to cooperate, and not where their parents oppose this. And that means that the most vulnerable children are the ones who get help last. I still think it's a long way to go that both health professionals and people who work in kindergarten and in school know enough about how to deal with these difficult situations. Then there is a great need to strengthen municipal child protection. Last weekend I was in Nord-Trøndelag at a large conference on the theme. There was the employee in child protection at all levels; there were parents who were foster parents, adoptive parents; there were even parents who had experienced that the children had been taken over by child protection. What they all say is that the Achilles heel is the municipal child protection, which is too poorly manned. The number of cases has increased much more than the number of persons employed in recent years. And the worst thing is, people who work in child protection say that when families who sail realize that they need help, or young people who realize that they need help, come to child protection, there's not always child protection resources to prioritize them. And there are, to say it like that, some of the really big trust breaks, because these are people who sail realize that they need help – and who doesn't, when you're raising children? It's hard to raise children. Some have large networks around them; others have none. And there, local Child Protection can be not only someone who comes in and takes care of, but absolutely the most important support network around families and children. But you don't have enough resources to follow up. There are also many of the cases where there is no basis for taking care of them, but where there is an absolute need for action to follow up, which requires that some more resources be invested in order for parents to be able to accept this. There are a lot of issues where messages are also sent to child protection, which are not being followed up. We actually have to take this very seriously, because – as I said – my experience from the time I worked in kindergarten was that it was quite disastrous when things were taken up with child protection. The result was no help, and that the trust between the kindergartens and the few adults that this family might have, and especially these kids, was completely broken. So here there's a lot of areas to strengthen, but it's incredibly important that we know that, because if we don't, a lot of these kids are going to drag this with them for the rest of their lives and get it very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2206	As many others have said before in the debate, it is difficult to take on board the fact that children in Norway today are being harmed by abuse and care failure. It is particularly difficult to understand that the closest relatives can be the culprits. There are cases where it is obvious that children need protection of society. It's our responsibility to give. Therefore, we have more solar rules in our law that health professionals are obliged to report if they suspect such. For this reason, there are also rules on mandatory city death testing, so that cases where young children die suddenly and unexpectedly are examined, so that the cause can be uncovered. Then we have received a new warning that the reporting of care failure does not happen as foreseen – this time in the Health Authority's 2009 communication. I am pleased that the Health Authority has identified this area as a risk area. This means that remedial measures are to be implemented. I think we have to realize that the rules have to be clarified. When so many fail to comply with the reporting obligation, the rules may be unclear at some points. It may also have caused the development of a kind of unculture due to the lack of awareness and training of health workers and poor focus on the obligation to provide warning on the part of the management. Then one must also consider whether a need for clearer decisions on sanctions against those in the health system who know but do not report further. I think it works so that under-reporting can be reduced or completely eliminated if the penalties were clearer and harder. It is the Health Authority that has to make sure that all health professionals think equally that there is zero tolerance for adults causing harm to children. It is necessary to clarify at the workplace that all suspicions should be reported. It's our job to get the code, so it's an important leadership task to make sure that the rules on alerts are followed up in a way that also monitors the alerts. Health surveillance should also look at its own role in this matter. Do they often react rigorously when health professionals do not report? It is good that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen put this matter on the political agenda. The council's answer was also very good. This work, which is currently being outlined, could lead to a positive development in this matter. That abuse has been perpetrated even if one or more trustees have had knowledge is an injustice to children that this society cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2217	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising this important interpellant. If there is something we agree on in this room, it is the desire to protect children from care failure and abuse. As the former Children's Council, I would like to say that it was easy to get along with the Storting and get through to say almost all the measures that went in this direction. I also think it was very positive to hear the statements of the Council of State on a number of new measures to be implemented. What is important in terms of those responsible for implementing the measures is that we are aware that they are in different sectors and that it requires cooperation between both child protection, health care, kindergarten, school and police to ensure that the child is well protected. There is one thing that is not completely solved, which I want to raise today. This applies to children between zero and three years of age who die unexpectedly. They actually have less legal certainty than anyone else. Governments were also involved in this group. Sudden unexpected deaths shall be reported to the police, followed by a judicial inquiry. That's how I think it must be in any case, even when it affects young children. It is necessary to clarify whether there are criminal offences, including: through immediate on-site studies. The scheme that the Government has previously put in place became a special health care scheme for these children — a voluntary scheme. This is a paradox when we know that one in five children between zero and three years of age who die unexpectedly, either die of care failure or because there is something criminal. It's a high number. Parents who have done something criminal will probably not let a health team in to investigate the scene, while others, who have certainly done nothing wrong, will feel that it is a relief because it insists that something criminal has happened, and it gives answers to what has happened. The majority of the Judicial Committee has asked the Government to bring forward a case of mandatory site-of-death investigation, and I assume that it is this scheme that is under way on 1 November and to which the Council of State referred. I would very much like to confirm that from 1 November we are getting such a mandatory study – and not a volunteer. When we read about children who have been abused by their parents or others, it's hard to think that evidence against these can be lost because the police couldn't immediately investigate the crime scene. My hope is that this will now come into place. Another matter, which was also addressed by the Council of State, is the dental service, which is actually an area that at least I haven't been away to the same degree before, and I don't think we in Norway have focused enough on it. In recent years, the Children’s Ombudsman has focused on the role of dental care in the event of care failure and abuse. He deserves honor for that. Among other things, it refers to Skåne in Sweden, where dental services have systematically cooperated with child protection in recent years. In fact, this has led to a significant increase in the number of child protection concerns. A dental professional has a unique opportunity to detect injuries to the child in the mouth and face. They may also consider how the child behaves during treatment. Special behaviour may give rise to a suspicion that the child is being assaulted. In cooperation with child protection, dental professionals will be able to contribute to the detection of child abuse and to the provision of assistance to these children. We know that the Children’s Ombudsman has been in contact with the Ministry of Health and Health about both reporting procedures and other matters. It was very fun that the Council of State today gave feedback in this area as well. As I understand it, the Council of State will follow this up in a good way. That's great. Then I finally want to mention something that the Bondevik II government started, and that the Stoltenberg government has followed up, which has had enormous importance in capturing children who have either been subjected to violence, or who have witnessed violence. The children’s project from 2004, which was run by the Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen and Alternatives to Violence, among others. in Telemark, has been a truly successful project to provide assistance to children who have either witnessed violence but who have had similar traumas, or children who have been subjected to violence. I myself have spoken to some of the children who got help through that project. An eight-year-old boy, as a small example, said in the meeting with me: there's one thing you, councillor, don't understand, and that's when I quit school, when I cheated, and when I hit the teacher and the people I went with, there was never anyone asking me -- neither at school nor in the neighborhood -- why I had changed like that. They did not realize that it was because I had seen that Mom had been dangled over and over again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2240	It's an important interpellation theme we're discussing here today. I have to say that I am pleased that the government has put as much emphasis on children and young people and prioritised living conditions for these as highly as it has done. There's been a lot of work on violence in close relationships. Children's houses have been established, which were also the subject of the State Council's intervention, and the legal security of children who are related to hospitals has been strengthened. A national competence network has been established at Sørlande Hospital and child-responsors have been established in many hospital departments. But that's not enough to meet the challenges we're hearing in this interpellation. Municipal Child Protection was mentioned by the representative Karin Andersen, and I just want to stress the need for it to be strengthened. If one is to succeed in helping more of these children, it is imperative that municipal child protection improves the framework conditions. In West Agder it was 127 years old in 2000 and in 2008 it was 133 years old. During the same period, 758 more children received help, and there is some evidence that the number of years worked is not proportional to the number of children in need of help. So I want to do some reflections in relation to local political commitment and thinking. I've been a local politician myself, and I've been in the client and child protection committee. Many municipalities have chosen to put it down, and that may be a reason why child protection services become a more peripheral service for some local politicians. Failure to gain insight into individuals as a local politician can quickly lead to a failure to focus and a failure to give priority to this on the agenda. In my opinion, some of that has happened. That's one of the things we see when local politicians, for example. have not prioritised the number of child protection posts in line with the increase in needs. I think it's related to the fact that in many municipalities the Child Welfare Service itself is a bit peripheral service local politicians often don't have enough insight into. Therefore, I believe that one needs to consider how to create greater insights into the child protection service at local level, to facilitate such insights centrally, and to point to opportunities to improve the knowledge of child protection services. As far as reporting is concerned, I fully agree with what has been said by many here, that one has to put knowledge on the agenda. But I don't think that's just what works. I'm a trained health worker myself, and I know that a lot of people have knowledge – but there's something about a culture where that knowledge isn't being asked for. One has not framed itself that makes it legitimate to discuss the issues that often arise when one is dealing with the kind of children. I think hospital pediatricians can be an important – what I'll call it – facilitator to put children's needs on the agenda. I know that in Kristiansand there is a good cooperation between Sørlanden Hospital and the municipality of Kristiansand, where the municipality wants to establish child contacts in all its departments in the municipality. I think it can be a very good anchoring point, both to spread knowledge and to point out that you should focus on children in the different levels of service. I am also very pleased that, in the context of the treatment of the Law on Social Services in Nav, we also received a purpose paragraph that children should have special attention. The children are our future, and they deserve to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2255	I will also join in giving praise to the interpellant to address the important topic that we are debating today. It's nice to see that there's actually a cross-political consensus on this. In the last period when I was on the Justice Committee, the Justice Committee had a major focus on just violence in close relations. I also know that this has been cross-political and that the government has worked very actively against this. But often it's that it's almost gone too far when it comes up as a justice theme. It's a very important topic. When our children fail, they are so weak. When children are betrayed by their loved ones, and in addition, the state that is going to give them the help and security they need, this is terrible. There are many examples that you can draw up. You can read in the paper almost every day about children who are failing. Maybe it's a taboo theme? Maybe we politicians haven't been tough enough to have a debate on this? Maybe it's that way that we've hesitated to go into families because it's shameful, and because we don't want to get involved in the family? But we see that it's necessary that we do that. Some of you have probably heard Paal-André Grinderud give talks and read his books, where he talks about the neighboring frenzy, and about how important it is that we see the children who don't have it so well at home. I think it's important that all the parties in any case – and the local politicians in particular who have a completely different proximity to the children – focus on this. It is our job as politicians to ensure that there are laws and rules that allow the state to intervene where necessary. We're talking about cross-political, transversal, and the Council of State was also involved in multidisciplinary teams in hospitals. But I think you're very often going to have to go into the theme given that it's professionals. This starts a lot of times with health centres seeing the kids, it's maybe in kindergarten, it's maybe in school, and then it's important that everyone talks, and you don't sit with silent shots that can make the kids get help too late. It's done a lot right in the transversal field, but I think it's very important that we focus on it and do more with it. I said there has been a alarming sharp increase in the number of child protection cases in recent years. It may well be that it's because Redd Barna has had a big focus on being able to give a message, and that you should be able to say something if you see things. The increase we see in child protection is kind of very good, because it shows that people are giving notice, and that there may be more cases. But what's tragic is that a lot of these kids don't get any help. In Westfold County, we saw for a time that two municipalities were convicted of violating the Children's Protection Act. How many municipalities in the rest of the country are breaking the Child Protection Act every day? There are small municipalities with little resources – perhaps with only one employee in child protection, and many know each other. State Council Lysbakken has also said quite clearly in a letter of reply to me that he knows that every day it is municipalities that are violating the Children's Protection Act. It's not durable. It's a little special, I have to say, when more representatives from the government parties notice here and say, of course, that there is a crisis in municipal child protection. That's positive, because then the opposition is not alone. This has been trying to tell the opposition for a long time now. Just a few days ago, a letter was sent from the municipality of Bergen and from the municipality of Stavanger with a really alarming message of concern about the municipal child protection. We see that the cooperation between Bufetat and municipal child protection is not good at all. Bufetate is a big colossal, and the fact that Bufetate in the west is going to cut over 100 million. NOK, because it affects the municipalities that have to make an offer without having anything new in place. I hope that the concern that has arisen today from the representatives of the government parties reaches both the Council of State for Health and the Council of State for Children and Gender Equality, and that the concerns that are raised in the budget for the autumn – and perhaps in revision – are reflected in the way that we get the local child protection system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2281	I now take the floor to thank you for a very good debate, which underlines that of course there is a broad cross-political consensus that this is an important issue that it is important to raise and keep focus on in the future. I also registered that there is a broad consensus on the measures announced by the Council of State that she will take action and that she has full support for it. I am not going to extend the debate any more, but I just want to stress at the end that in the further work on these kinds of questions, the issues raised by both the representative Kjöna Kjos and the representative Kjersti Toppe are very relevant, namely to show what kind of reactions you can expect if you do not follow up on what you have to warn. So, to the extent that it is unclear, the reaction pattern has to be made clear. In the extension of what the Council of State has announced that it will do, namely to develop both instructions and guidance on how best to follow this up in organisations, it is clear that managers at the various levels have a significant responsibility to facilitate the possibility and framework for alerting employees and to ensure that they are safe to do what they are required to do. So, finally, what the representative Karin Andersen and others were talking about: Child Protection as it is today in very many municipalities, does not work well enough. They do not have the necessary resources and the necessary quality to follow-up when being notified. It is, of course, a resource issue that ultimately falls under the overall responsibility of the Storting. But these things will of course now be followed up. As I said, I thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2294	First, I would like to say that there has been a very good debate with a very large consensus, and it was not difficult, as the representative Davøy said, to reach agreement on measures for children. It could all be agreed on, at least for the children who are in such a difficult situation as what we're really talking about here. First I want to answer Kari Kjenaas Kjos, who brought up a serious case about help for pedophiles. In the department we've gone over what help it is to pedophiles. For pedophiles, there is no self-help offer in the healthcare system, but the offer is to be used. There are funds available for a low-threshold offer of psychologists in some municipalities that have established such an offer. That's what money is for, so you can search. Such a low-threshold offer is an offer where no referral is needed, and where you can also use the auxiliaries immediately. The same is true of some district psychiatric centres that do not have waiting lists but have only turned the whole pile and operate without waiting lists. So there's really opportunities to get help. It's probably more a question of knowing where the help is. Then there are templates for the municipalities to develop plans for municipal violence, which also include assault. There has been a great deal of effort to build skills in the field of violence and trauma. As I said, we have been working on the development of measures to prevent violence, but we have not looked specifically at the offer of pedophiles. I would therefore like to ask our specialist director to consider what should be done to further prevent pedophile actions and help this group, and how we can meet them. So as I said, there's been a lot of good stuff, and Sonja Irene Sjøli said it's not acceptable to see another way. We very much agree on that. Training, visibility and notification and reporting obligations are therefore important. When Karin Andersen tells about the real life of the kindergarten that reported to child protection, it's sad when someone fails in child protection. But it's even worse when a whole system fails, because then society fails. To Laila Davøy, I would like to say that the offer that starts on 1 November is an offer of a death centre study from a health care professional. It's an offer and it's voluntary. It'll give us a lot of knowledge. Of course, health professionals also have a duty to report to the police if there is any reason to report it, but initially this offer is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2307	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2324	The rules on compulsory employment were amended on 1 July 2009. The obligation to drive is now permanent and applies to all agricultural land properties. Unlike the former, when the obligation to provide services was imposed on properties of a certain size, there is now an obligation to operate on both small and large properties. All agricultural land shall be farmed, full-grown land, surface-grown land and inland land parcels. The obligation applies regardless of when the property was acquired or whether the owner has previously fulfilled the obligation to operate. The new owner has a one-year period within which to decide whether to operate the property itself or whether to rent out the land. Owners who fulfil the obligation to drive personally do not necessarily have to do the work themselves. He can rent help, but must be responsible for the operation. The bureaucratic challenges arise when the owner is not required to meet the obligation to operate in person. The agricultural area must then be rented out for 10 years at a time. This means that the owners must always have ten - year leases with those who are going to run the earth for him. The main reason given by the government for this requirement is that it will increase predictability for the tenant. In addition, authorities expect long-term agreements to lead to better soil management. Owners shall not be allowed to terminate the contract during the ten-year period. It's just the one that rents the land that can cancel the lease. Owners may do so only if the lessor does not comply with the terms of the contract. The authorities require that the lease must lead to operationally sound solutions. This will include, inter alia: say that the distance between the farmer's own property and the land he leases must not be too long. Agreements resulting in operationally inappropriate solutions may be followed up as a breach of the operational obligation. Non-executive owners must seek exemption. The main objections to the new rules are that they will not work in practice and that they will lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. Many owners will have problems at any time having ten-year agreements for the land they rent out. They must therefore apply for exemption from the obligation to provide services. A large part of the rental land is leased out on short-term contracts. Municipalities must pledge to grant a large number of waivers, which will lead to a violation of the law and reduce its respect. The paradox is that owners who make sure that the earth is driven and kept in claim must also seek exemption from duty. They do not meet the formal requirements, such as: ten years leases. The formal requirements are also contrary to the Governmental Council of Breck a while ago stated to the Nation: ‘I believe it is completely indifferent who operates the earth, only the earth is active.’ Many farmers will refuse to enter into ten-year contracts. Nor is it always appropriate for the tenant to conclude long-term contracts. A few examples illustrate this: Vegetable farmers with extensive crop rotation want to enter into a short-term agreement between two and up to a maximum of five years. Farmers wishing to step down their operations during the last years before selling the farm do not wish to enter into leases which may result in many years before their son or daughter can take over the operation. Therefore, long-term contracts that cannot be cancelled by the owner will make it less attractive to acquire properties. The requirement for long-term agreements is therefore in contrast with that stated by the Council of State Breck in Kronik, dated 21 August 2009, that changes to the laws should increase predictability and speed up decisions. This has been published on the Ministry's website. I quote what Councilman Breck writes there: ‘From 1 July, a number of changes in the property law in agriculture entered into force. The Odel Act, the Concession Act and the Soil Act are the most important. Amendments to the laws shall increase predictability and speed up decisions. The aim is to facilitate better development and the future in rural Norway.’ The new regulations on compulsory employment will lead to significant additional work for municipalities. About 40 pst. the agricultural area is currently tenure land and will therefore be severely affected. That's about. 177 000 agricultural properties and approx. 47 000 active farmers today in Norway. This means that thousands of agricultural properties are rented out and have to be checked. Thousands of tenants have to be checked and thousands of applications for exemptions have to be dealt with. The result will be a solid bureaucracy that lacks all reason and reasonable justification. With a short or noticeable lease, the driver has little to gain from curing the land, ditching or clearing edge zones around the inland. The new law requires the driver to strike the edge zones, pick the fly oats, harvest the areas annually and otherwise operate normally. If not, the landowner breaks the obligation to operate. Thus, sundown farmers or landowners who only beat their lion's earth once a year may have to give up the land for the benefit of the professional farmer. Norwegian farmers need to have a simpler regulatory framework to deal with and to a greater extent to be released from public governance. The work on simplifying and modernising agriculture has stopped completely with the red-green government. The Progress Party believes that it is time for the government to show the power of action and give farmers the opportunity to decide for themselves how they will operate their own business. The Agriculture Manager of the Jären announced to the Nations on 3 February of this year: ‘The changes in the law are superfluous and will provide a very laborious and bureaucratic control regime [[...]] This comes from the industry itself. No, with the new rules on duty, the government of Stoltenberg, with the councillor Breck at the head, has decided to control and control turned into full flower. All types of rent shall be checked. The new rules are totally unnecessary and formal and will not work in practice. The only thing that can help the farmer is that the government is changing its agricultural policy. That's why I have a question to the Council of State Breck: What does the Government want to do to give the farmer as a self-employed a better everyday life and a smaller bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2373	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tåldal for the interpellation which gives us the opportunity to discuss some important premises for the agricultural industry and agricultural operations in Norway. With effect from 1 July 2009, a new obligation to operate was introduced in the Land Act, which states that all agricultural land must be managed. The former abstinence clause of the Law on Soil was lifted at the same time, together with the statutory obligation to operate under the Law on Concession and the Law on Odel. The abstinence provision meant that the municipalities could intervene if cultivated land was abdicated, while the legal obligation to operate at that time was limited to five years and only applied by acquiring property from close relatives. Thus, provisions requiring owners of agricultural property to operate the land have existed for a long time and are not a new instrument. The new thing is that the obligation to operate has been strengthened by the fact that the municipality can intervene at an earlier stage, and that the obligation is broader by absorbing all the agricultural land. The obligation to drive under the new obligation to operate can be fulfilled either by the owner driving the land himself or by renting out the land. If the land is rented out, a ten-year lease must be entered into to give landowners a more long-term and stable resource base to base their investments. Soil leases will then have a greater incentive to make investments, such as: excavation and upgrading of the soil route in order to ensure the best possible quality of the agricultural area. This, of course, will contribute to a more efficient production of food. In addition, it must also be emphasised that land that is held in claim has a greater value for owner than land that is not held in claim. This is uniquely positive, as I see it. The lessor does not have access to cancel the lease for the period of 10 years. Another rule would have undermined the main purpose of the provision, namely the predictability of the landowner. At the same time, the possibility of exemption is intended to capture those cases where it is not possible for landowners to fulfil the obligation to operate, either by operating themselves or by hiring out, in addition to those cases where, for various reasons, it has to be relaxed under the conditions of disembarkation. The possibility of exemption is and shall be real. I believe that the measures we have taken here are absolutely necessary in order to maintain agricultural production in Norway and thus to take a global responsibility in relation to the problems facing the world in terms of climate and food security. It is true that the tasks of municipalities will increase somewhat in relation to today, as municipalities will assess and verify whether the conditions for rental have been met. But there is no system of prior approval of leases. The contracts concluded must be submitted to the municipalities, which thus have the possibility to go through them in order to capture the cases where the contracts do not comply with the law. As I have also said in the past on a question-time issue, the Ministry is well-informed to go through the guidance material for municipalities to ensure efficient and targeted management. I am concerned about private ownership and the right to dispose of it, and at the same time I am concerned that the land should be kept in claim. Owning an agricultural property also brings with it a responsibility towards the community in terms of food production and maintaining the production characteristics of the land for the future. Food producers have a number of transmission systems through the agricultural contract system. It must also be possible to demand that the earth be kept in claim. In my view, freedom of choice – to use that concept – is a valuable starting point, but some societal considerations are more important. Food security and the food situation of the future are essential and crucial to address the future use of property resources in this country. At the same time, I would like to stress that I am concerned that the law should be adapted to today's challenges. The representative Treldal sees agricultural legislation as a bureaucratic code for agricultural property, which weakens private ownership. I believe that agricultural legislation can be better described as a good tool to ensure food production and food security through a carefully balanced interaction between the desire for the freedom of ownership of private property and the need for safe and adequate food for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2392	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I am not quite satisfied with it. First, I asked the Council of State a question, and once again, the Council of State does not answer the question. I would like to ask the question again, and I hope that the Council of State in its conclusion can answer me the question I ask him. It's: what does the government want to do to give the farmer a better protection as a self-employed person and a smaller bureaucracy? I did not get an answer to that. I hope I can get an answer to that at the end. Then the industry itself says that you are not able to follow up the control, that you are not able to follow up the exemption requests, because it leads to too much work with the resources you have. This is going to strand in the beginning, and it's going to go the wrong way. It will once again help to erode the law and disapprove of respect for it. It is also rigid rules that lead to many more problems, including: if you have a family to take over a farm and everything that it entails, if you are not within the decade limit, which should be taken into account. Personally, I believe that this is almost an infringement by the public. Because if it is the case that a farmer has chosen to make an agreement with a farmer who lives two miles away, a farmer who lives one mile away can go to the municipality and the public and, according to the law, have the agreement converted because the first farm is further away. Thus, it may be publicly entered in and checked by a private individual in a contract. I would say that it is contrary to all the principles that I believe we have in Norway. I think that is one of the worst things about this law, that it is contrary to everything we personally stand for, justice, and that the individual man does not have the right to personally assess which agreement is the best. I think, with all due respect, that the individual private man and woman in this country are better able to figure out which agreement to conclude than the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2405	The President is, in fact, in doubt as to whether the term 'public abuse' in relation to agricultural policy is parliamentary, but leaves it to the Council of State to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2408	I have also been in previous interviews and question-time debates on the changes we have made in property law. I'll try to answer that question that Treldal asks: What has the government done to give farmers less bureaucracy? It is important to stress that when we made the current changes to the duty of service that we are discussing, a number of changes were also implemented in the concession law and the law of no part. In those amendments, there were significant simplifications. Less properties were subject to concession obligations, obligations to live and rights of nobility. In addition, housing rules were simplified, so that they have become easier to access and a more targeted tool for municipalities in order to ensure housing and farm use. So the starting point for the change in property law that was made last year was also simplification. In addition, I have recently sent out a new circular on price control under the concession law, where it is decided that price control should be avoided if the purchase price for built-up agricultural property is less than 1.5 million. kr. Thus, the lower limit of when price controls are to be carried out has increased to twice that. This means that smaller properties, where the housing function is more prominent than the economic aspect, can be priced more precisely on the market. All of these changes that I have now mentioned are mainly an embellishment of the legislation, not a tightening. With regard to the new obligation to operate, we are in the process of revising the circular on duty, based on the time since the provision entered into force, and the feedback we received afterwards, related to the practice of the provision that we are discussing today. It is true, as the representative, Mr. Treldal mentioned, that the issue of growth can be referred to as an example in an area where we have been asked for detailed guidelines to facilitate the treatment of these issues by municipalities. We are working to find a solution that meets the objectives behind the drive obligation, but at the same time takes into account the need for flexibility in relation to the 10-year rule, which exists for those who are dependent on growth change. So in that context, we are committed to following up and finding the solutions that Treldal is asking for. I would also like to stress that the obligation to operate is a necessity in relation to the challenges we face, and the obligation to operate cannot be considered unnecessary in relation to private property rights. We know that agricultural land is a limited resource both in Norway and in the rest of the world. Owning agricultural land must therefore also involve certain obligations, and taking into account the transfer arrangements existing in relation to agriculture in Norway, it is not unreasonable to impose on owners such an obligation to operate as the Government has now done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2421	We have probably gradually become accustomed to the black paint of the situation in this country by the Advance Party, and I understand that it will not be any less of that. Despite the fact that we have been assigned to the world's best country to live this year after year, the Progress Party continues to describe this misery, not least in the field of agricultural policy. The peasants are allowed to have the most terrible framework conditions, and they are even defined as state employees, a fate that is probably worse than anything. Yes, perhaps even worse, they're basked and tied in a state coercion. I think the council has responded well to the interpellation, so I don't have much to add. But when the country's second largest party fronts such a sense of reality, it is necessary that it be taken to disprove. I have a completely different perception of reality than the representative of the Träldal forefect. One of the reasons for this is maybe that I have some years behind me as an active gardener, and that I still live on this garden. So this is a life I've known on the body. But then, of course, it must not be put under a chair that there are challenges in agriculture. It's too hard to earn. The farmer is facing major challenges in this way. We also do that, as legislators, and as premiscuous suppliers, in relation to the level of income that can be achieved. I would say that the Norwegian farmer is well qualified for his job. Many, very many farmers lose a huge amount of work, of which there is great respect, often with too poor financial counting. There's no doubt about it. And a challenge that should be given special attention in the agricultural communication concerns the coming generation of farmers, namely to get an education at all levels that matches the challenges and demands of the future peasants. So the land use. 3 pst. of our land area is arable land. We don't have much to go on. The areas most suitable for agriculture are cultivated. Food production is important for emergency purposes and in order to provide consumers with fresh food of safe and good quality. The international community requires countries to organise as much as possible to meet their own needs for food. With us we have a degree of self-sufficiency of approx. 50 pst. I don't think it's in the country's interest to reduce it. I therefore consider the farmland to be an important national resource that needs to be kept as close as possible. I remember that when we found the oil in the North Sea, politicians provided us with a forward-looking national policy that ensured that a fair share of the revenues benefited the community. Not many in Norway today disagree that it was a wise policy, and we have reaped international honours for it. In my opinion, this is the case with an important national resource that also cultivated the land. We need a national law to protect it, while at the same time, it should and should be a local/regional freedom to find the local adaptations needed to ensure that the law does not function too rigidly in relation to different situations and needs of different places in the country. And this, of course, doesn't have to be simple things. This is the voltage field between central control and local action spaces. In this area, I think we have to live with the fact that equal needs can be stressed differently so that different conclusions can be drawn. In a democratic society like ours, we have to be able to deal with it properly. In my view, it is important that we have an agricultural policy that demands that the soil be well managed, where the farmer's administrative responsibility is given weight. Perhaps the most important thing is to challenge the creativity and creativity of the farmer in a positive way, so that the resources available to him are used optimally within the national frameworks laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2438	I can promise both the Council of State and the representative of Haugen that the Progress Party will promote even more interpellations and even more questions about Norwegian agriculture in the future, and we will do so to improve the situation of farmers. That's the point of this. Optimism is a word that means a lot, whether it is used in private relationships or it is used in connection with something in industry, such as: agriculture — and then Norwegian agriculture in this case. Optimism means something positive, that you have faith in what you do and produce. Optimism wants to continue, develop, invest and not least make you proud of your profession. Among Norwegian farmers, at least very many of them I have regular contact with, or who sometimes make contact, are not all equally positive. There are many reasons for this, but a bureaucratic code, and that you can't afford to dispose of your own farm, often goes back. The question of whether you want to continue as a farmer, goes back to many. ==References== half of the country's rapporteurs have signed a petition requiring the red-green government to take a firm stand now. In the Red-Green government sits the Center Party, and the Council of State also comes from the Center Party. The speech of the numbers is also quite clear. In 2000 there were 64,774 farmers, in 2009 there were 46,513. For the last four years, with a red-green government, there have been 4,419 fewer farms. During the same period, there have been 141,000 Decares of less cultivated area. It also says approx. 35,000 empty farms. Most of the earth is driven, but the houses are empty, and buildings fall due. The maintenance allowance increases from day to day. At the same time, it is known that approx. 400,000 Norwegians want to buy a farm, but do not get a chance to do so, among other things. because of a bureaucracy in which it is said that the purchase price is to be approved by the authorities. The price of the farm should depend on the farm’s return – even if the purchaser and the seller have agreed on a price, and whether the new buyer has a perhaps better way than the previous owner to increase the income on the farm. So because of this, as many as 35,000 farms are empty. It's a shame, and it's a loss-loss situation for everyone, also for the authorities. For the Advancement Party, it is no wonder that the population in some districts is constantly falling, and that those living there are getting older and older. The Progress Party has a different agricultural policy, an agricultural policy based on developments in society. The Progress Party wishes to see as little regulation and regulation as possible. Whatever previous governments, whether civil or socialist, we have had a negative trend in employment, the number of farms, etc. in Norway. This must mean that Norwegian agriculture will survive, one must think more in the direction of the Advance Party. The Progress Party is in the process of reducing an agricultural policy sample that aims to help Norwegian agriculture to grow even in a few years’ time. Good agricultural policy is also good rural policy. Today's and tomorrow's farmers are different from yesterday's farmers. You want more leisure, better economy and predictability, and not least a freedom when you want it, to produce what you want. You want freedom to, for example, to rent or sell out parts of the property, to create a campsite or to run tourism alongside. The possibilities are many in several of our often magnificent farms. That is why we have to give industrious, innovative farmers the opportunity to drive. With the Progress Party, the possibilities will be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2457	There is no news that the Right believes that the farmer's rights to own property need to be strengthened, among others. because real estate is often the largest asset of the Nordics, and that many therefore save through real estate. It is true, as the interpellant points out, that the agricultural industry in Norway is subject to a number of restrictions, both in respect of the freedom of establishment and the right to dispose of its own property. The peculiar rules that currently apply to agricultural properties undoubtedly help to make Norwegian farmers poorer, while significantly reducing the investment and risk capacity of the industry. First, it means that public regulation prevents farmers from enjoying the market value of their own property, a discrimination that is very unfair and should not be allowed to continue. Secondly, agriculture becomes a source of harm. There is no evidence that rigid regulation has any positive effect in terms of rural settlement or agricultural development. Since the Law on Soil Sharing was introduced, many rural areas have experienced relocation, and fewer and fewer incomes from agriculture today. On the basis of a rule of prohibition of division, it is a premise that society is the closest to deciding what is the most appropriate social use of a property. This is a premise right does not agree. We'll again highlight that 40 pst. today's agricultural area is rented and operated by a farmer other than the owner of the area. Today, the structure of agriculture with larger farms and fewer farmers goes their natural way, while the structure of property is maintained. There is a development that the Right dislikes strongly, as it brings our active peasants into a life as tenants. The right has repeatedly shown that Norwegian agriculture needs armstrokes and housing rather than detailed regulation and over-management. We believe that the right to vote causes considerable uncertainty for both the purchaser and the seller of agricultural property, and have therefore repeatedly made proposals in the Stortinget on changes in the law on property, that a review of the importance of the law on the marketing of agricultural property must be carried out. I have noticed with pleasure that the Minister of Agriculture and Food has listened a bit on the way to the Right and raised the limit to twice as much as when the price assessment of the sale of agricultural property is required, and that the maximum housing value is tripled. I also record that the Council of State Breck on this occasion stated the following: ‘The changes help us to have a simpler price evaluation legislation. I also know that many Norwegians have a dream of getting a use. The hope is that these changes will make it possible to increase the turnover of agricultural property so that more people can realize this dream.’ This is an important, but very small step in the right direction, because we look at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's own argument, and if it takes it seriously, they should abolish the entire price control, which slows down the turnover so that more and more agricultural properties become empty and obsolete, despite the fact that young people with great interest in farming do not get such an opportunity because of today's rigid legislation. It is very regrettable that the Council of State does not see the need to make further simplifications to give the farmer greater rights over his own property. I almost have to ask myself if it really is in line with the mind of the Center Party. On this occasion, I will make a quote from the Nations on 2 October 2008, which Ola Borten Moe said the following: ‘I could focus on the red tape that must be kept in mind for taxpayers’ money in order to manage this, but, in my opinion, I am content to note that this is harmful to the industry and a serious infringement of the individual’s property rights.’ I record that the Center Party has given the Right Right a piece on the way, and therefore has a hope that the Government will put away old, rigid absolutes, to the best of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2485	It is positive that the representative will give us a new opportunity to discuss Norwegian agricultural policy. Agriculture is an important industry and a central element of work to ensure living communities in this country. In a world where many people are starving, we have a duty to take care of the potential to produce food. We have to take care of the cultivated land that previous generations have cultivated and kept in claim. Active agriculture is also the cornerstone of a concrete effort to take care of living areas and to lay the foundations for other industries in the districts. The area cultivated is a small percentage of our country. For this reason, it is important for society to hold on to claims in order to ensure food production and to contribute to the creation of value and living communities. To achieve this, the industry is supported by the State budget. This model of cooperation is important for agriculture and for rural settlements. Some time ago I was in a meeting with the leader of the Bond Team in my home country. She got a question as to whether there was no problem with all the agricultural regulations. The answer she gave, I think many of us can lean on their hearts. She said: ‘Each of us can occasionally irritate us over some rules. But we who live by agriculture know that we need rules to ensure nutrition — and the basis of life for each of us in the long term.’ The representative of Bredvold is busy that we should have fewer possible agricultural regulations. I'm afraid there can easily be fewer farmers in agriculture. Norwegian agriculture will not survive with the market liberalist agricultural policy of the Progress Party. It is therefore important to continue cooperation between farmers and the state. And cooperation involves both duties and benefits. That's what creates a viable agriculture and living settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2501	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Tåldal, for the interpellation and opportunity to discuss important agricultural premises. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave. The representative of the Tjældal shows in his interpellation the policy of the Progress Party in practice, and that means less predictability of agriculture. What the Progress Party does not like to talk about are the rights that come with the obligations. In the Center Party, we believe that by fulfilling your obligations, you also have the right to claim your rights. The most important thing here is the right to get what you produce. How the Progress Party intends to solve this in its conversion policy, they are not talking about anything. In the Center Party, we believe that the owner of land also has a clear obligation to use the land for agricultural production. Earth must be kept in claim, cultivated and harvested. Good crops also require larger investments, such as: ditching. Is it then so unreasonable that one who leases land from another can have a more long-term and stable resource base based on their investments? Norwegian agriculture is – and will be – a small-scale European-scale agriculture. Large parts of the country have a topography that does not allow economies of scale. In order to maintain the operation on these areas, differentiated instruments are essential to ensure profitability also on smaller holdings. Agriculture has a crucial role to play in ensuring the settlement and value creation of the country as a whole. At the same time, the exploitation of the whole country is a prerequisite for agriculture to meet production targets in an environmentally friendly manner. Agriculture is an important location factor for a wide range of industrial activities. Slavery presents the problem as depriving food producers of power. The representative, Tjäldal, could need a course in plant production. Soil that is not in use does not produce food. It is therefore necessary to take some steps to ensure food production on areas at risk of set-aside. Norway as its own nation must aim to be as self-sufficient in food as possible, and today we are importing about half of the food we consume, like Arne L. The mound was in. Own food production in Norway needs to be increased, and then we need to use all available agricultural land. Changes in this area were therefore important in order to ensure the foreseeable future of those wishing to farm and to provide a safer rental environment. This is particularly important in areas of the country where there is a lot of land not in use. In the Center Party, we are also concerned about having a system that is administratively manageable. In the context of the rest of the changes made in other parts of the agricultural property regime, we believe that ownership remains strong in Norwegian agriculture. Furthermore, the agricultural economy is essential for keeping the land in claim, and the Centre Party therefore considers it important to strengthen grass-based production.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2523	Soil degradation is a big problem. This is unfortunate for both Norwegian agriculture, the environment and the international food crisis. The Christian People's Party will therefore support measures that limit the reallocation of our soil resources. The amendment of the Land Law in 2009 introduced permanent compulsory farming for all owners of agricultural land. The aim of the tightening up was to secure agricultural land for food production, and we need that. The population on earth will increase to 9 billion by 2050, increasing the need for agricultural land by 50 pst. We also need to take this into account in Norway. It is therefore important to maintain and operate well cultivated land. The Interpellant of the Advance Party claims that the ownership of agricultural property has a weak position and asks whether the Government will soften the bureaucratic legislation on agricultural property. The Christian People's Party does not agree with the claim of the Progress Party, and believes that this must be seen in the light of a very central objective of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely that there should be people living around the farms throughout the country, and that the soil should be cultivated. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the relocation from farming. There is a considerable variation between the different parts of the country. Relatively many live on farms in central agricultural municipalities in the Mjø region, around Oslofjorden, on Jären and in Trøndelag, while there are many agricultural estates without permanent residence in North Norway and in smaller central agricultural municipalities. Obligation to live and operate prevents a market from opening up agricultural properties to large leisure properties for capital-intensive investors who stay only for shorter periods of time, on vacations, etc. It is not this Christian People's Party sees as a forward-looking agricultural policy with living settlements. A 2008 survey indicates that housing obligations provide more stable housing. Nine out of ten are never applying for an exemption from the obligation to live, and among these there are more than 90 pst. they may live on the farm for more than 40 years after being moved in. If the holder has applied for an exemption, there is a much greater chance of the farm being removed after the period of exemption. This may indicate that the housing obligation makes farmers think carefully about the situation before taking over and making a long-term choice. As the scientist behind the report says, they could give the scam and move after the prescribed period, but they don't. The Christian People's Party believes that compulsory living and working is an important instrument in rural and agricultural policy. Agricultural property is the backbone of many rural communities and is the starting point for local value creation and growth. Farm assets that are propelling should be priced precisely on the basis of their propitiousness and should be in active operation. There is no doubt that the housing obligation actually works as a counter-price. Had it not been the case, there would not have been so much political noise on this matter either. At the same time, it is unfortunate that practices vary from municipality to municipality. If the housing obligation scheme is to have a future – and that is what it should – it needs to be applied fairly equally, and it needs to be practised rationally. Here, the Minister of Agriculture has a challenge by ensuring that housing contributes to maintaining housing throughout the country. Another important measure to ensure the settlement of farms in rural areas is to pursue a policy that provides farmers with good and predictable framework conditions. In these questions, the Christian People's Party is behind the farmers. The Progress Party stands for a policy that will upset Norwegian agriculture as we know it today. The government parties, on their side, have had the support of the Christian People's Party in what has largely been a continuation of the agricultural policy pursued under the Bondevik II regime. At the same time, the Government now has a job to do in meeting the expectations it created during the 2009 election campaign and in implementing the Government Declaration. Here the income development of the farmers is absolutely central. The removal of housing or other measures that will make agricultural activities and housing more uncertain is the last Norwegian rural area that is in need right now. The Christian People's Party will do its part to ensure that agriculture is given as good and predictable conditions as possible, and that agricultural policy is as much as possible in line with the signals we receive from agricultural organisations and from people in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2549	This interpellation debate refers to the full difference between us, on the one hand, red-green, who talk very much about Community values and about the responsibility of those who own agricultural property when it comes to food production and keeping the land in claim, and on the other hand, the Progress Party with its call to release the farmer. I have had many meetings and visited many gardeners both before and after I joined the nutrition committee, and I still have the advantage of meeting a farmer who feels that he is in a straitjacket, and who thinks that having land should not result in both duties and courts. So until the alleged contractions. Let's do two examples. Price control should be avoided if the purchase price for built-up agricultural property is less than 1,5 million. kr, is a double in relation to before. Statutory amendment so that fewer ownership judgments are covered by the obligation of concession, conscription and extraterritorial jurisdiction is another example. Yes, is this narrowing or softening? It has to be asked whether the interpellant aims at sustaining agricultural production throughout the country, and whether we in Norway are going to be part of and take our responsibility globally for the problems facing the world in relation to climate and food security. Or is everything to be governed by the market alone? In my view, food security and future food production are absolutely necessary and decisive considerations that we have to take with us when we consider how ownership resources in the country are used. What would happen in Norway with agricultural property if we took away the obligation to operate, which is produced as a form of coercion? This is actually about what we want Norway to look like in the future. I fully support the Minister of Agriculture's considerations in the response to the inter-pellant. I would like to point out once again that this debate fully illustrates the difference between the Progress Party – alone on the one hand with its light solutions, where there is a unanimous focus on fundamental rights – and the Government's holistic approach for the benefit of the community. The party of progress will replace the community and the big society with the individual's right to decide unilaterally only according to what gives the best gain for the individual. The aim of the Labour Party is that it should be agricultural and that people should live in our entire country. The consequences of this are, for example: that if the garden is of a certain size, we can't put ourselves in the situation that the garden goes to leisure property and is made wrecked, when someone wants to take over and run the garden. If we are to have living farms, food production, active horticulture and landscape care, we must have animals on pasture. This is the only way we can have open landscapes in the future, but it does not grow again with forests. There are open landscapes with living settlements the tourists come to Norway and will see and experience. We must have stable and active farmers, and then there must be income opportunities and social conditions that allow for both full-time and part-time agricultural settings. I then agreed that both the obligation to pay and price control are good tools on which we have to build. For example, if young people who are to take over are to compete for prices with owners who are to use the property only for leisure purposes, not many will be left with financial muscles to carry on gardening. And what about the press areas, where very many agricultural properties will have an alternative value in the market far beyond what is the yield on the garden? The step-by-step game will help the farmers through two grips. The first thing, according to the representative Bredvold, is to create new interactions. The second thing that you don't have to talk about is taking $7.5 billion from the transfer to the farmers. I would say to all those who want to be busied throughout the country and live settlements where tourism can flourish,: Use healthy farmland, and then the Progress Party is quickly exposed to its faulty agricultural policy. In addition, we know that the earth's population will grow in the future, and then it will be totally wrong medicine to lead a policy that will lead to the earth being laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2581	The ownership tradition of the Norwegian and Central Party for agricultural land is based on ownership and ownership obligations. The owner has a management responsibility, and, as many have been involved, there is a common position among the red-greens that are becoming increasingly internationally modern. That's the one that has to be taken into account. It is an administrative responsibility that is statutory. This applies to agriculture, and today the case concerns the ownership and ownership of agriculture, i.e. the use of land. The obligation to drive, in Section 8 of the Law on Soil, clarifies the owner's administrative responsibility and replaces the former provisions of the Concession and Odelsgesetz. In the Ministry of Agriculture’s circular, M-3/2009, the Land Act’s Obligation to Drive, of 26 June 2009, the purpose of the obligation to operate is, in point 2, the need for changes: «The new provisions imply that the obligation to operate is a personal and permanent obligation not attached to the acquisition of a property.» Section 8 of the Soil Act states: ‘The land use area shall be drifted. The new owner must decide within one year whether to operate the property itself or to rent out the agricultural area in accordance with the provisions of the second subparagraph.’ Furthermore, Section 8 follows the paragraph requiring that the disembarkation obligation requires a ten-year written lease. Soil law and rent are very extensive. The rent includes several million dekars. Today, there are many tens of thousands of private law agreements between the tenant of land and the owner of land. The contract is oral or written. It's important to get more predictability, not least for the tenant, that's the farmer. The challenge is then to combine greater predictability with what is administratively feasible — and we are at today’s interpellation. I would like to ask the State Council to reconsider whether the ten-year written lease will apply to new owners after 1 July 2009, or to all owners. I would like the ten-year written agreement to apply to new owners, i.e. to gradually improve the conditions. In addition, the authorities should apply the obligation to operate against those owners who do not sea or by rent ensure that the land is used, i.e. land owners are obese. In such cases, ten-year written land lease requirements between landowners and farmers should be considered as a natural requirement. This is particularly important in North Norway. That's where the challenges are greatest. That's where the largest areas are not used. We need to be aware that, regardless of the legal regulation, the economy in the industry, which many people have been involved in, is determining whether the land is used. Since the areas that are out of use are grasslands in the first place, the use of grass in livestock production is therefore the economy that needs to be improved, combining economics and legislation. In a review of the circular, based on the two changes that I have now outlined, a better one could combine predictability for those who use the soil, and what administratively is possible to implement. The most important thing about such an assessment and change is that it has wide support in the industry. It is in line with what is perceived as a reasonable amendment to the legislation, so that we get into a new and better position. So, what has created the basis for this interpellation is that the change in the law of the land has been understood and interpreted in such a way that it applies not only to new owners but also to existing owners. Thus, the regulation will cover tens of thousands of contracts, orally and in writing, and it implies a situation that is considered unreasonable by several. One must start somewhere – and start with the most important first. It's a recommendation from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2604	I want to thank the interpellant. It is good that there are people who have not given up speaking against preconceived opinions – without any root in reality. It's good we get some agricultural debates in between. But I have to say that I am quite shocked by the debate. It must be remembered that agriculture actually consists of two different industries. It's agriculture, and it's forestry. Agriculture is a subsidised industry, we all know that. Forestry is an export-oriented industry, it is a profitable industry, it hardly receives a penny from the state budget – and it should not have anything either. But you have to realize that you can't cut these two industries across the same comb. Among other things, I heard The representative, Mr Holmelid, spoke of the defence of agricultural restrictions by obtaining transfers from the State budget. You have to ensure the basis of life for everyone. And the representative Nordahl spoke of the nature of the land as being such that the economies of scale cannot be used in Norway. It's pure, cutting futility in relation to forestry. The Food Committee at Stortinget should at least be aware that soil and forest are two widely differing industries. And then a little bit to the challenge itself. Deportation is a major challenge for District Norway, including agriculture. But the main challenge in this issue is productivity growth. I think even the red-greens agree that the country's area is reasonably constant. Our agricultural area is also fairly constant. It increases a little bit, because the farmer is nice to him. When productivity growth is very high, and is constant over time, and when the farm is to be kept constant in size, there are not many other ways to take out the productivity growth than that the farm can employ fewer hours per year. When the farm employs fewer hours a year, it becomes pointless to just be on the farm. So either you're renting land or you're taking work out. The third option is that everyone is starving, and that's what we see today. So it has to begin to take into account some realities in the debate. And then a little bit back to the forest, because forest doesn't get the same repetitions over the state budget. There is nothing left of society to be imposed on the same restrictions as heavily subsidised agriculture, and it is soon time for us to have a debate on it. I have taken that debate with the Minister of Agriculture before, and I can imagine asking here today as well. Is there not soon the basis for starting to take over that forest actually does not have the same transfers as agriculture, that forest has many possibilities, that forest is totally dependent on getting a change in the property structure of the country in order to exploit its potential, and that forest is quite important for District Norway, and it is not possible to lock it up in the regime we have today. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: what is it that justifies that forests should be subject to exactly the same restrictions as agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2615	Just a few simple comments on the posts: first, I would like to thank both of these competent representatives from the Right for good posts with good substance. It is good to hear that there is a bit of variety – with good substance. So a response to Nordahl from the Senterpartiet and Holmelid in SV and Rigmor Andersen Eide in the Christian People's Party, who is very concerned that there would be no agriculture again if the policies of the Progress Party were pursued. If it were to be – when we know that we are the only country in all OECD countries in Europe that operates agriculture in this way – it would not be a single farm, a single cow, once again across Europe if their policies or opinions were to go through there. So to Lundtigen: I think Lundtigen had a very good post with good substance. I also record that he partly agrees with me, and on the verge of his own government council, so it is very good that there is substance in the centre party as well. So a little bit to Haugen: I record that Haugen is also on a collision course with one of his own party representatives, Martin Kolberg, who said on Monday that there was something wrong with agricultural policy. Then you might want to go into the game rooms and discuss who's right and not right. The mound is concerned that there are opportunities for – as he says – ‘local adaptations’ and ‘local action rooms’. When talking about local action spaces and adaptations, I would like to quote again what the Agriculture Manager of the Jären says in the Nation on 3 February: ‘The changes in the law are superfluous and will provide a very laborious and bureaucratic control regime [[...]] He says, "This won't work in practice." You might want to talk to the professionals and get out of the thick rooms at Stortinget. It can help from time to time. Then to the Council of State Breck. I have one comment for him. So we have 400,000 people who want to take over a farm, and we have 4,500 who have left. We have to start cleaning up the rigid legislation, so you might be able to get the farms up and running again. So I'm going to say that this is a rental bomb that's buried in the law of the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2643	I would like to say a thousand thanks for a good and interesting debate. As I've emphasized earlier, the duty of service, as I see it, is a necessity in relation to the challenges facing the world. Nor can the obligation to drive be considered to be unduly restrictive in relation to private ownership. Because, as several of the speakers here today have underlined, agricultural land is a limited resource both in Norway and in the rest of the world, and therefore owning agricultural land must also involve certain obligations. In view of the arrangements we have with regard to transfers to agriculture in Norway, it is not unreasonable to impose on owners such an obligation to operate as the Government has now done. And with the decorations made simultaneously in other parts of the agricultural property legislation, there is absolutely no significant restriction on ownership that has happened. I have also underlined that we are now reviewing circulars on driving duties, guidelines for municipal practice, among others. in the case of crop rotation. It is clear that we have a desire and a goal to facilitate the municipal treatment contained in the legislation we have. We have also done so in the context of price regulation, and we should also look at that in relation to the rules on compulsory employment. As the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen emphasised in his statement, it may be possible – as we shall look at – to consider amending the legislation so that as from 1 July 2009, new owners are now involved and, if not, to consider whether – if the obligation to operate is not fulfilled – an older owner’s legislation will then be introduced, for old contracts requiring ten years’ rental. We are looking at this in the context of this review. I am also concerned about what Mr Lundteg underlined, that it is important to start with the most important thing first. So I just want to stress this a little bit with the ban on sharing, which Røbekk Nørve brings up. She says that the ban on sharing prevents the sale of additional soil and leads to an increase in the rent share. For me, it is important to point out that the value of agricultural property is in the potential for exploitation of industry. In general, the creation of valuables and living buildings is best ensured by an overall exploitation of the property, and I believe that the prohibition of sharing in the law is an important prerequisite for doing so. This provision prevents the de-allocation of land and other resources that are important for maintaining the operation of the use. The design of the law may, upon application and after a concrete assessment, be subject to a sharing consent. This is a flexible solution that ensures that sharing consent can be given when social considerations, such as: the existence of housing or good farming practices. The statistics we have also show that the ban on sharing was practiced in such a flexible way. As an example, in 2008, there were about 90 pst. of all split requests accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2656	That being the case, it is no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2670	The President will draw attention to the fact that this is a proposal which is dealt with under Section 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the matter has not been dealt with by committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Since it is not the case rapporteur in this matter, the President will propose that the order of the speakers follow the size of the parties in Stortinget. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2683	The consequences of the eruption of the volcano under Eyjafjölljökul in Iceland are far more extensive than the one that may be impressed by the proposal of the three party representatives. Volcano ash has stopped air traffic, and of course it affects the airlines. But the consequences are far beyond this, and affect large parts of travel and business. However, there is little reason to doubt the involvement of representatives with the airlines. But when I read the reasons for the proposal, I find a mix of a number of old – and, in my opinion, bad – proposals from the Progress Party and a repetition of the same old lesson about cutting taxes and taxes. It is clear from the fact that this is more forward-looking party ideology than care for airlines. Representatives attack even small aerodromes and the solidarity arrangement that the large aerodromes finance the small ones, in a proposal for a temporary exemption from landing charges. I'm engaged in the consequences of the volcanic eruption and the ash cloud, but I'll see it in a far wider perspective than what's in this hasty proposal. The first days, the hotels were full of ashtray air passengers. Now hotels are empty because people don't dare to travel – either because they're not sure if they're coming home again, or because they've become uncertain about the safety of the air. How long will it take to get to the old level? What kind of ring effects does this have? Is business activity generally affected by this and to what extent? Another important question: what has been the income loss of Avinor, and what would they have lost if this proposal had been adopted? There are many questions, and the proposal does not give the answer – at best just on a very small part of the question. The aviation industry is a global industry and it is important that we look at how the EU handles the situation. It is not enough to look at Sweden, which has an aviation industry and an aircraft traffic that is significantly different from Norway. We must therefore consider the situation more thoroughly and more broadly than the proposers will, and I can assure you that both the Labour Party and the Government will do so. On this basis, the Labour Party cannot support the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2692	As for the use of small airfields, I can comfort the representative Bjørnflaten that the Progress Party much more than today's government wants more government purchases of services from our non-profit airports. The flight ban on large parts of Europe has had dramatic consequences for air traffic and has put travellers and airlines in a very difficult situation. As we all know, parts of the aviation industry were already in an economically vulnerable situation after the financial crisis. Nor is it the case that only the airlines concerned, including the tourism industries and other industries, have suffered financial damage. A weakened financial situation for airlines will not only affect companies but will also have a significant impact on the operation of Avinor and on the operation of 46 other airports. This could quickly go beyond today's cross-financing model, and we also have the operation of Rygge, Torp and Stord, which is on the outside of the Avinor system. The volcanic eruption in Iceland has shown that Norway is vulnerable to such natural events and that Norwegian and Scandinavian preparedness for ash and particulate measurements is not sufficient to capture national emergency response needs. The proposal put forward by the Progress Party proposes to eliminate the landing charge for the airlines and to compensate for the financial loss during the period of flight ban, by exempting the airlines from airport charges for a period of time. This must apply to all aeroplanes flying in Norway. SAS, Norwegian and other companies have lost in size around or over 500 million. kr, and are affected by conditions they themselves are not mastery of or can foresee – quite peculiar circumstances, in which the Government considers that the Government must clear up financial compensation and the removal of airport charges in order to compensate the losses of the companies during the period of airspace closure. This is important, and it is not least for the districts that we are actually giving a helping hand, so that in the future we can maintain existing competition in aviation among the companies. Nobody wants to go back to monopoly companies and double the price of tickets. What do other countries do? The EU has stated that all Member States can provide emergency assistance to airlines. Everyone in this room is familiar with the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, where 3,000 people were killed by terrorists. This event hit global air traffic for many years. What is less known is that the US authorities chose to compensate the airlines for the three days of airspace across the U.S., by $5 billion, or nearly $30 billion, something like that. British Airways enjoyed it. In this case, the airlines have been affected by special circumstances and restrictions could not be foreseen. This is the way the Progress Party sees it, of course, that Norway follows a line that America did in 2001, by compensating for lost income. The big paradox of the situation is that the Norwegian Flyer Association has stated that travelers in Norway have too good rights, and refers to alternatives when the planes do not leave. I do not know whether the Norwegian Flyer Association has understood that the customers or the airline passengers are actually the basis for the employees and the existence of the trade union. So here we have a union that has repeatedly called for the state to save SAS, while on the other hand they want to deprive passengers of rights. With respect to reporting, the airlines are to customers, and not the opposite. Finally, airlines are incredibly important to keep the wheels going in our society, both related to the daily operation of AS Norway, and related to the interests of travellers. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2711	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2714	The volcanic eruption in Iceland has had unfortunate consequences for very many social actors. Speakers before me have mentioned important industries, such as the travel industry, but also many others have been affected by this. We have discussed this proposal in our group and we have come to the conclusion that it will be relatively incomprehensible in this way and without a broader case-by-case preparation to provide one special group with a support scheme for the state budget, so we will not support the proposal put forward here. If we are to take the rapporteurs to the floor, next time we will also have a need to finance Avinor, so there are many things that could be the basis for discussion more broadly in this matter. We understand the good intentions of the proposal, but we think it is too bad a basis for making such a decision. I would also like to point out, and this is, of course, because we have not had time to deal with it, the slight contradiction that lies in the matter of this, and what is in the proposal. In the case, it says that reference is made to a specific airline, and it is said that a derogation from landing charges will be granted for a period of time here, while the proposal states that a temporary exemption from landing charges at Norwegian airports is proposed as long as there is an unexplained situation related to flight restrictions. It's not the same thing. It is true that if you want to compensate for the loss of an income by giving exemption from landing charges in retrospect, there is one thing. But granting exemptions from landing charges in the period when things are unclear is quite another thing. The paradox is that during that period you do not pay a landing fee, because then you do not land. So the compensation scheme that is being launched here should be part of the proposal for a decision. All in all, we believe that this is too unpresist and a little too little worked through so that we can support this on a standing footing. We also believe that if unfairness has been revealed among business actors as a result of the volcanic eruption, we have the expectation that the government will make arrangements for it in the revised national budget, and then we will assess it when it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2723	It is positive that we pay attention to the situation of airlines and to the case of other industries that may have a framework in connection with this wish situation, as we call it. So I would just like to mention in parentheses that I think the comparison with 11 September 2001 should not be included in the debate. It is positive that there is attention to it, but we do not want to support the proposal. This is partly because we consider it a little elaborate and thoughtful proposal, partly because we think it is unexplained. And I can't understand that it harmonises and takes over the other solutions, as other countries are now looking at in this situation. But it's also because we don't have the full picture of the situation yet, and then it's not natural to take a final position on it now. We don't know for sure if there will be any new clouds that will cause aviation problems. And even if the wish problem is now over, we must all assume that we have the full cost picture both for the aviation industry and other industries before we take any action. I thought what's natural now is that one gets the full picture of the situation of the aeronautics industry, it's also assessed for other industries in question, and that both the SV and the Government come back and look at it when one has the full image, and assesses whether there is a need for action when one has the full overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2732	There is no doubt that the volcanic eruption has had a number of negative consequences for the Norwegian community, and it has certainly proved to be totally dependent on nature's moods at times. Of the more curious kind, we have established new words and concepts in the situation. I have never heard the word ‘cinderella’ before, but it is now established as a concept. The ash crisis, if we can define it as it has led to a debate on public support measures in a number of countries. Both our Scandinavian neighbours and other European neighbours are discussing it. Norway is a country that is very dependent on air traffic, and the Central Party believes that it is important that we ensure air services in the future around the whole country. As I said, the ash crisis has shown that we are facing major challenges when the planes are standing, whether it's for business or for the transport of patients from home to hospital and back, and it's important that we see the consequences for the rest of the business, such as: travel life. The centre party will follow closely the aftermath of the ash crisis, and if there is a need to propose measures, we will come back to it at a later stage. I do not think this Document 8 is addressing all the aspects of the challenges we have seen in the ash from the volcanic eruption in Iceland. In that context, the recommendation of the Centre Party is to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2743	Like previous speakers, I think it's very good to get a round on the situation we have, even in the main hall. It has been a demanding situation for many who have happened, and especially for the aviation industry. I agree with the summary that representatives Bjørnflaten and Halleraker have given of the situation. Yes, there is a situation that needs to be followed carefully. I have also noticed that the Government has had a close dialogue with the EU. Even with this type of problem setting, Norway has to match Norway and the other European countries. It's because this is a competitive situation. We also have a State aid code that we have to see in relation to it. I agree with the representative Sjelmo Nordås, who points to the particular challenge Norway has because we are a country that depends on having a good flight. The Swedish government has taken hold, and I expect the Norwegian government to assess that type of grip. I do not know in detail the grips taken by the Swedish government, but they have been linked to liquidity. When the representative Bjørnflaten says that the Workers' Party and the Government will carefully assess the situation and follow it, I interpret it as if the Government would follow this situation carefully and possibly come back to the Storting if they see it necessary. The Christian People's Party will not support this proposal, but I hope that the Council of State can confirm that this is something that the Government will follow closely, and possibly, if any, come to the Stortinget with action. Then, of course, the Christian People’s Party will consider it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2754	The volcanic eruption in Iceland resulted in airspace over Norway and Europe being totally or partially closed for a week after 15 April this year. As a result of long distances and scattered busses, Norway is more dependent on aviation than most other countries in Europe. When all air transport stops, as we've experienced lately, Norwegian society is in very important areas. Thanks to the efforts of a large number of actors and the fact that the crisis has just slipped over, we have managed to limit the damage. The most critical was probably the health care situation, which depends on air transport in emergency medicine. If we look at the economics, it looks like the aviation industry itself in the first place is the strongest, because the airlines have had to cancel flights and take care of so-called unwanted passengers. For the period 15 to 21. In April, SAS reported a net loss of around 380 million. Norwegian Krone. The number of liabilities to the group as a whole and includes also operations in Norway, including Onions. Norwegian reports a net loss over the same 100 million period. kr. We in the Ministry of Transport follow developments closely. We have arranged for a dedicated contact group with NHO Aviation and the three largest airlines and will hold a meeting with the Norwegian Air Operator Federation tomorrow. I have also met with the organizations of those who added about the crisis. Avinor, who manages most of the aviation infrastructure in Norway, has lost money on the crisis. As the manager of the state ownership in Avinor, I follow the developments in the company closely. The ash crisis has led to a debate on public support measures in several countries. We have been signaled that the European Commission would announce guidelines for state support as a result of the crisis today. Such guidelines have so far not come, but the European Commission has confirmed that they are working on this issue. I have not been informed that concrete measures have been taken in Denmark until now, but the Ministry of Transport has established a working group with the airlines as a result of the crisis. In Sweden, the Board of Directors, as an immediate measure, has decided that the payment period for services from the aviation company to the Swedish Transport Agency, corresponding to our fee to the Air Safety Authority, shall be extended from 30 to 90 days. A corresponding scheme has also been introduced for the fee financing the security control of passengers and baggage. The Swedish government has also informed the industry about an existing scheme in which companies can apply for deferral to pay taxes and taxes to the public. I understand that the background to these measures is that several airlines in Sweden before the weekend were in danger of failing to meet their obligations as a result of this crisis. For the Government, it is important to maintain a nationwide route offer. The situation of the aviation industry in Norway is still unclear. We may not know if new clouds of volcanic ash will create problems for aviation, and even if the wish problems are now over, we still do not know all the costs of the aviation industry of the crisis that we have now been through. So the government is following the situation closely. We will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for any action, if we consider it necessary. The government is concerned that industry, including the airlines, must have a competitive environment. In this context, it is necessary to follow developments in other countries closely and also to consider carefully the warning guidelines of the European Commission. Aviation charges to Avinor are otherwise an important tool for the governance, and we will carefully assess the level of these charges in the future. The proposal of the Progress Party, which has been referred to by many, is, in principle, unpresidual. If we were to consider proposals for action, we would have to consider more. So I'm glad to register that the proposal that is before us today seems to be being rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2779	Governments are quite right when she says that there is no one who knows whether there will be new ash clouds and new falls – we understand that in the Progress Party as well. But it doesn't help the parties involved. We need to put in place a predictability for the airlines, which, in the event of several outbreaks and a halt in the flight, can quickly end up in a situation of both permits and cancellations – and face a very uncertain future. That's why it's important to give some signals that guarantee economics and predictability in such a way that the companies we have today are well cared for. Can the Council of State promise to come to Stortinget in an appropriate way with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2786	First of all, we don't know the extent of the additional taxes that the airlines may have had, nor what the ring-fence will be for other industries. I could draw another line that we're following exactly the situation of the companies that belong in Norway. We also follow the guidelines and the legislation that it would be appropriate to introduce in other countries, including what the EU now has to notify. So I hear the Progress Party is now busy with the permits, etc. But I registered that in one case recently as a gallant issue to keep SAS, they added there and the meaning that the company has, did not want the Progress Party to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2795	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2800	Document 8:119 S for 2009–2010 is about much more than some fees. It's also about how the state can quickly turn around to save jobs where there's been an unprecedented crisis, in this case a volcanic eruption in one of our neighbouring countries. No one could have foreseen this and made their preparations. Another type of disaster may affect a group of persons or companies. In this case, it is among other things. the aviation industry which has been innocently injured. A weakened financial situation for airlines will affect passengers, employees and not least aerodromes. The Progress Party believes that instead of any support packages, which it has been a little talk about, targeted tax reductions will make much more sense. Since 2004, the state has raised nearly 900 million. SEK in dividends from Avinor, which could have been used to invest in airports, among others. in the case of security. The Progress Party has previously made proposals for the return of funds to Avinor. For the Progress Party, it makes sense at this stage to exempt landing charges for a period of time. This will help to support all, including those aerodromes not funded by the Avinor system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2811	The volcanic crisis reminds us of the importance of all building blocks in society for all the others to function. That the aeroplanes are on the ground, probably not least in Norway, a country that, with European eyes, has large distances and a large number of airports. Oslo–Bergen and Oslo–Trondheim are among the most trafficked flight routes in Europe. Words like ‘vulcanised ash’ and ‘ ashtray’ have become part of our everyday vocabulary. It is important to thank those people in the NSB and the bus companies and others who have been on to get people out, while the planes have had to stand on the ground. My impression is that for most of us, this has gone very well. But for others, the volcanic crisis has hit much more seriously, both economically and humanly. When the planes cannot be relieved, everything from the air ambulance to hotels, tourist destinations and business travelers is hit. The individual suddenly risks not coming home to a birth, to a wedding or a funeral. Economically, it is perhaps the airlines themselves that have marked the volcanic crisis the most. I agree that it is now important to follow closely the economic consequences of the volcanic crisis, but I still believe that the proposal for exemption from landing charges should be put to the vote today. Firstly, the proposal has not been dealt with by the committee. The question then arises: does the Storting have information to suggest that the liquidity or equity of the airlines is impaired in such a way that the Storting will decide to initiate immediate action without having assessed different types of action against each other, without having a full overview of the need and consequences, and without the ministry having been given the opportunity to comment or deal with the matter? I am not familiar with such information. Secondly, it is known that landing charges are not like the VAT or other taxes on the revenue side of the State budget and can be used for various good purposes, such as hospitals, the environment or care for the elderly. Landing charges go to Avinor and are used for action at airports. This should provide an overview of the impact it will have on them. Having said that, I would say that if there are still going to be restrictions on air traffic due to the volcanic ash or if fewer people choose to fly, it will in the long run have serious consequences, both for the airlines and for Avinor. That's why I think there's every reason to take the situation seriously and follow the situation closely. If the Government believes there is a need to intervene, there is full opportunity to come back to the Storting with its assessments and any proposals. I believe that this is the most appropriate form of treatment and, in fact, a better way to deal with the situation than to adopt an urgent proposal at the main hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2828	First I want to say that you can do like Tegen and the ostrich, stick your head in the sand and pretend you don't know. At least there is no doubt that everyone who has been on the platform before Tegen has been very aware of the important issue. Everyone has said that this is an important issue that we need to look at – that we need to get the whole thing. The problem is that it can be that soon you don't have any aircraft that can fly anymore, because the companies have big problems and big challenges with still being able to get planes because they have huge losses on the basis of the situation that has arisen. And then the council tried to get on a frenzy when she said that the Progress Party had been engaged in an issue in a certain company. The difference between doing something with these charges and going into an issue is that an issue goes directly into a company. What we're talking about here would actually be helpful for all companies flying at Norwegian airports. That is the whole point of this proposal. Contrary to the fact that one company in which the state owns a company, one actually wants to say that all companies that frequent in Norway have the same challenge. When the representative Bjørnflaten says that this is one of many old progress party proposals, I would say that old proposals, if they are good, would like to be repeated many times. That's the whole point. These are good suggestions, and there are suggestions that the companies say they want, precisely because the situation that has arisen has arisen. I think it is serious and worrying that this situation, as the Council of State said, has cost SAS 380 million. kr and that for Norwegian the cost is approx. One hundred million. kr. It should be a warning, and it shows the challenge that companies are now facing. Some people are concerned that this is a bad suggestion because you are no longer in the same situation that we were in. No, we're not right now, but when the proposal was submitted, you were in a situation where there were major challenges. We also don't know when, or if, there's a new volcanic eruption that makes us get into the same situation that we were a short time ago. Then it will be very good if you have the opportunity by the government and government to actually put in place actions immediately to prevent companies from coming together and that we have major problems getting established companies back again. That's what this is all about. This is also a proposal that will ensure that tools are available by the Government when, and if, the same situation of problems with ashes should arise again. That is why I hope that this proposal will be supported by a majority because the airlines are very concerned about this and want to put such a system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2843	The President would point out that the representative is moving on the border to what is Parliamentary acceptable, with comments on Tegen and the ostrich and frenzy from the Council of State. In addition, the President has recorded that the parliamentary language has also been given new words such as ‘ ashtray’ and ‘ ashtray crisis’. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2968]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2855	The size should then vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2862	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2915	The proposals are then put to the vote. Ten and eleven from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2932	President! Also Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2937	That also applies to the Christian People's Party. That is to say, the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2950	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the establishment of a scheme of senior agents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e2965	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 and proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e3045	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-5, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Party of Advancement. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e3084	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e3120	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e3127	This is a matter which has not been dealt with by the Committee and which has been dealt with under Section 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure. It will now be put to the vote on the proposal put forward by the Representative for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection 119 S. The proposal was taken up in the debate by the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen of the Progress Party. The President makes it clear that only the Progress Party supports the proposal. The President assumes that the Advance Party, not to say the other parties, seems to be right to be made aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-27.ana.ud1344e3241	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
