ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e36	The representative, Peter N. Myhre, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e39	I have the pleasure of promoting two representative proposals. One is from the depositors Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Peter N. Myhre, Per Arne Olsen and Oskar Jarle Grimstad to assess the mandate, powers and role of the Riksantikvaren. The second is from the staging representatives Peter N. Myhre, Bård Hoksrud and Arne Sortevik to increase the speed limit on motorways class A to 120 km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e62	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e71	Too many Norwegian children need a safer everyday life. It is our task to facilitate that as many children as possible are brought up as well as possible. There are few adoptions of Norwegian children. Many Norwegian couples are in line to adopt children, but they are mainly children from other countries. It's a demanding process, and the waiting time is long for most. Many Norwegian couples would probably adopt children born in Norway if possible. Many foster parents would like to adopt the children they care for. It has been discussed in several contexts and for many years whether access should be open to contact between biological parents and children or children and biological relatives after adoption, so-called open adoption. This has been discussed in particular with regard to the adoption of foetuses. Furthermore, there has been a strong concern from different disciplines that adoption is such a small measure of child protection. In the question of whether access to the right to contact between biological parents where there is an interest in the child in both adoption and contact with biological parents, the Supreme Court has, in two decisions, directly invited the Ministry to examine such an opportunity. This is essentially a matter of this. Right-of-visit adoption represents something new in relation to the relationship between the child, biological parents and adoptive parents after adoption. An overall committee has concluded that adoption under § 4-20 of the Children's Protection Act where such decisions can be taken will continue to be a very invasive coercive measure. Of course, there will be different perceptions in such a comprehensive case where the best of the children is the central one. That is why I am very pleased that a strong majority in the Committee, that is. all except the Advance Party, agree with the Government’s proposal that, if, following a concrete assessment, the child’s best solution is to be found, a right of contact may be established between children and biological parents following an completed adoption. It is important to stress that the aim of the proposal must always be the best of the child. The stability and foreseeable growth of the child must be decisive for the measures taken. It is important that in such cases, children may be in contact with biological parents, confident that they remain with their adoptive parents, and that this does not hinder the role of adoptive parents, even if it is easy to see that this can also be quite challenging for adoptive parents. Such a system can only work if there is a high degree of certainty that such cooperation can work. The Committee would also stress that association with biological parents is one element of the overall assessment of what is best for children and that visiting contacts are only relevant in a very limited number of cases. And once again, the main condition must be that it's for the child's best. It is not intended to ensure a relationship with biological parents for the purpose of repatriating the child, but in that case to give the child some knowledge of biological parents. The child must be guaranteed all the benefits of an adoption in order to gain a safe growth. The Progress Party, which is strangely not part of the majority's opinions, will probably present its views. It may seem that the Progress Party believes that the children should return to their biological parents almost in any case. The Committee is divided into a view on whether there are only biological parents or whether more members of the immediate family can have this contact. Government parties consider that there is a central point in limiting the circle of persons, taking into account the scope of the case, the length of the case and the risk of new tests. We believe this will put extra stress on the child. When it comes to determining the right to contact, it is important for me to stress that the child’s own vision must always be sought and put into focus. Everyone except the Advance Party believes so. In the case of new tests, the majority is concerned that arrangements which are process-driven need not be opened up. Finally, I hope that this case will lead to adoption being assessed in far more cases than today, in order to secure children. So to proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, which insists that one should have a review of the practice in this matter. I would like to encourage the Christian People's Party to submit the proposal without a vote of substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e97	The issue we are dealing with today has come up a little bit as a consequence of several issues of adoption that have been dealt with in recent years. Much more use of adoption as a child protection measure has been opened up in recent years. Adoption itself is something that, for my part, I associate with a little happy couples who adopt children from abroad. Many of us also remember the movie Annie, which is about adopting a child from an orphanage – with some American conditions on it, then. However, adoption as a child protection measure, or adoption in itself, domestic adoption, is something that there has not been a tradition of using here in Norway. There's been a lot more use both in England and in the United States. For many, adoption is a matter of safety, of safety for the children concerned, and it must also be such that they have a stable framework around them when they are adopted. What the Progress Party in this case wants to clarify is that it is coercive adoption as a child protection measure we oppose. It's a very intrusive coercive action, and, as I see it, it may be contrary to several conventions. The Party considers that, as far as possible, the child shall be granted the right to know and to be cared for by his or her parents. We believe that the relationship between the child and the biological parents is important for both the child and the biological parents. But then the Progress Party should also recognise that in some cases it is not best for the child to live at home with the biological parents, and in some cases the state has to go in and take care of it. However, for the Advancement Party, it is important to have an intention to return to the biological family. Everyone can change, everyone can change their life. But implementing a forced adoption is so final that there is no possibility of repatriation. Sweden has a system in which they have used much longer-term foster homes. Therefore, the Progress Party in this case has not addressed the comments of the other parties. That is what I want to clarify in relation to § 4-20 about the use of forced adoption as a child protection measure. The rapporteur was very concerned about the position of the Progress Party. Now I have explained our primary views on this matter. But I also want to say that we will subsidiaryly support the Government in this matter, because when the Government here opens up that those children who are adopted away may have contact with biological parents, this is a small step in the right direction. But then you can also see that Norwegian Psychologists' association is called good parenting. It's maybe that if you're a good parent or adoptive parent, you can see that the child can enjoy having contact with his biological family. Then it's not safe to change the law. Several hearing bodies have also dealt with the relationship with biological family and biological parents. We know that for some children who have been adopted, it may be equally important to have contact with siblings, grandparents or other families. It is surprising that the government has not taken this into account. Adoption with contact, which is decided today, will give adoption a slightly different character than it has today. This may lead to multiple heifers being adopted, but it may also result in more children being adopted and getting the same level of safety. The adoption of contact means that adoption will not lead to an absolute break between the child and the biological family. It seems that the Progress Party is so important that we primarily support the Government in this proposal, by giving the child at least an opportunity to contact the biological family. We talk a lot about children's best and children's rights in this committee, and it is important to focus on this as well in this case. For the Advancement Party, it is important that the child also get a good knowledge of his biological family. Finally, I will be allowed to promote the minority proposal of the Progress Party. We will also support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, that it should be called ‘biological family’ and not ‘biological parents’. We will subsidiaryly support the Government's proposal for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e125	The representative of Solvency Horne has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e128	This is a very important issue for those concerned, adoption seekers, biological parents and, of course, the children who are in the situation that adoption is a topic. The rapporteur has presented in a clear and transparent way many of the issues that have been the subject of the Committee. The right-hand side mainly supports the Government's starting point in this matter. To find solutions for the child's best is to a very large extent about also having flexibility to do so. Creating general rules for special cases is demanding and in this context may be particularly demanding. Each child has his or her history, each family has its history and its particular context. Then it is clear that there must be room to seek out special – we should call it – structures around the individual child that care for the interests of the child as much as possible. I see the Government's proposal as a proposal that is just going in that direction. It softens the adoption system in order to provide a more flexible starting point for finding out – I'll say – a good step forward in the individual case. We see that as a positive. The question of the right to know about biological parents, biological origin, is a recurring issue on family issues and issues related to children. The right-hand side has as its starting point that it's an important point. Having the opportunity to get to know their parents is a principle we follow in other contexts of family policy. When it comes to this specific question, we believe that that perspective is strengthened by the proposal that is now before us. In fact, we believe that in the need for tailoring, it is a pretty good point that even the circuit with which you might be able to have contact should be something broader than just the biological parents. We therefore rely on the proposals that support this. With regard to the setting, there has probably been an incursion, in the sense that the Right has been with a little longer than that for which there is a basis. It is such that the right should be included on proposal No. 2 I, but we shall not support proposal No. 2 II, as indicated in the setting. We will also support proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. Therefore, in view of the vote, I do not choose to raise a proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I assume that the Christian People's Party does. But I signal as a explanation of vote that we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 I.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e141	The representative, Olemic Thommessen, has made it clear that there is an error in the setting. It'll be fixed in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e144	Today, we are making changes that represent something completely new in Norwegian adoption legislation, that is, visiting contact between biological parents and the child after adoption. Like other matters of this kind, this is not an easy matter. There are many very difficult questions about this. One can imagine situations in which contact with biological parents will not be appropriate, and sometimes it may be directly harmful to the child concerned. You can imagine situations where children end up in conflict between biological parents and adoptive parents. One can imagine situations in which biological parents do not follow up on the contact proposed, and the child has to experience the rejection and disappointment that this entails. Or you can imagine situations where the child himself does not want any contact with his biological parents. But can we imagine that there are situations where limited contact will be good for the child? Is there a situation in Norway where such contact would not threaten to create uncertainty, but on the contrary will contribute to a safer and more stable situation for a child? You can imagine a situation where the child will experience it as well as knowing that the biological parents are doing well, for example.? The Supreme Court has twice urged the Government to investigate directly the possibility of so-called open adoption, which is what we're talking about here. It is important for me to stress that this will not be a norm, but matters of the Supreme Court and experience of child protection show that there are issues and situations in Norway where this may be appropriate. I have not intended to stand in this room and stand in the way of such an opportunity. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with me. The following points are of particular importance: This is not about contact with a view to bringing the child back to biological parents. On the contrary, the child shall ensure that the adoption situation is permanent. Such a scheme places great demands on adoptive parents. Therefore, they must consent to such a arrangement. Nothing would be more devastating than whether the child is in a conflict of loyalty or a dispute between adoptive parents and biological parents. You have to be sure that the biological parents will follow up the contact. Some hearing bodies have pointed out that in situations where all parties are positive for further contact, this will still occur. But I would like to stress that what is precisely the purpose of these changes is to provide the contact with the proper framework and ensure children's rights. The child protection service shall have an active role in the preparation and implementation of the contact and shall have a duty to ensure that it does so in a manner that is in the best interests of the child. The child is an independent legal entity with its own rights. Therefore, the child’s opinion must be extra heavy. To the Advancement Party, I would say that adoption and child protection are about children's right to a safe upbringing, not about biological parents' right to their own children. I interpret the proposals of the Progress Party more as parental rights than as child rights. Finally, I would like to say that it is good that we insist that it should be a proper professional assessment of when children are to be adopted to Norway. The changes we are making today will help to strengthen the protection of adopted children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e173	The centre party is concerned that all children should be entitled to good and safe care. In cases where the home does not have the power to care, it is the responsibility of society to ensure that children and young people receive full care and good growing-up conditions. When a child comes under the care of child protection, some of them will sooner or later be brought back to their parents. It is always hoped that parents will be able to care for these tasks, but in some cases it is not a good alternative. In this way, children are suggested to have unstable growth, perhaps with different foster homes and always an uncertainty about contact with their biological parents. The question is always: How long can you stay in your foster home? Many will also feel that they do not belong properly in a family. Therefore, it is possible to make use of adoption without the consent of the parents. It has been discussed over several years why adoption is so little used in child protection, as it can give the child better and more stable growth. Although it has many advantages, it should also be aware that taking advantage of adoption is a very drastic measure. It must only be used in cases where a return to parents is seen not to be relevant, and of course the child’s best interests are to be taken into account. Increased use of adoption will raise a number of questions, including: what we are discussing today, the question of whether access to the right to contact between the child and the biological parents should be introduced after adoption in cases where it is best for the child both with adoption and with continued contact with biological parents. The purpose of such contact is to give the child the opportunity to have some contact with biological parents and thus gain knowledge of their origin, while at the same time giving the child the stability, safety and duration of care provided by an adoption, versus being in a foster home. It is also important that it is only possible to establish a right of contact between the child and the biological parents, and that the scope of the case, the length and the risk of new tests be limited. This can be a burden for the child and work against its purpose. One of the purposes of adoption is to calm the child’s situation, and it is therefore very unfortunate to open up schemes that can be process-driven. It could threaten the possibility that the child will be calmed about his situation and his or her growth. With this in mind, the Centre Party will seek to establish a right to restricted contact between the child and the biological parents following an completed adoption in those cases where, following a concrete assessment, it is the best solution for the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e192	The size now decides that a right to contact between children and biological parents should be granted after the child has been adopted, a so-called visitor-right adoption. It represents something completely new in the relationship between the child, biological parents and adoptive parents. An adoption of contact will result in a different nature to that of today’s adoption. Adoption with a visitation contact means that adoption does not constitute an absolute breach between the child and the biological family. The Christian People's Party supports the introduction of this access and at the same time promotes a proposal that we review the scheme and evaluate the consequences when some years have passed and we have a certain basis of experience to look at. It's important, because this is a demanding landscape. Extensive assessments shall be made on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, it is also important to review the experience gained and, where appropriate, to adjust practice after a few years. With regard to the rapporteur's request to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, I am in favour of it if the Council of State now confirms that he wishes to carry out such a review. We are talking here about children who have parents who have not been able to give the children the care they need. They have been deprived of parental responsibility and the council has decided that the children should be adopted. I am pleased that the entire committee also states that this is to be seen as a very intrusive coercive measure. It's important to have that seriousness and the humility when we're discussing just adoption, because there can hardly be any more drastic interference in a person's life that the authorities can do than just making a decision that you're no longer related to your own family. Therefore, on the basis of the discussions we have had on the adoption law in recent years, it is important to stress that adoption is not a right for adults but is for the child’s benefit. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7 gives the child, as far as possible, the right to know and care from their parents. Article 9 provides protection against the child being separated from his or her parents without being subject to procedural rules and with regard to the best interests of the child. The point here is that assessments have been made on a case-by-case basis with regard to the child's best interests. However, even if the child is adopted away, there may be cases where the child may continue to have contact with his biological family. This is why the majority in the European Parliament today concludes that, where, after a concrete assessment, the best solution for the child is to be found, a right of contact can be established between the child and the biological parents after a completed adoption. With regard to the arrangement, the Christian People's Party has some dissenting views. Firstly, we believe that any visitation contact should not only be limited to biological parents. In different contexts, association with siblings, grandparents or other relatives may be equally important as association with biological parents, and it is therefore reasonable that the law now opens up access to it to assess it. Furthermore, Christian People's Party believes that foster parents, i.e. the potential adoptive parents shall not be able to prevent the child from having a visit to the biological family following an adoption, if this contact is considered to be at the best of the child. There should be an assessment based on the best interests of the child, but a skepticism from the adoptive parents should, of course, be given great importance in such an assessment, even if they should not be granted an absolute right of veto, to which the proposition has been made. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind in the matter, either alone or with others. It concerns changes concerning biological parents, the assessment of contact with the biological family and changes concerning the consent of the adoption applicants. The Christian People's Party shall vote primarily for its own proposals and secondary for the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e209	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. With regard to proposals Nos. 3 and 4 – since the representative mentioned proposal No. 3 – the President will draw attention to the fact that they will be taken up in a later big meeting, as they do not have legal texts, and will also refer to the tradition of past relations between nodules and magnification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e215	I have to say that I think adoption is among the greatest actions that people can do to children. Taking full responsibility and commitment over a long life is actually a great gesture not only for the child, but I think it's a great gesture for the community. What I want to raise today is that there's a debate going on in which it sounds as if most of the kids are being taken by force when they're taken by child protection. My knowledge of child protection is that there are very, very few who are actually being taken by force. The vast majority of child protection decisions are taken even when parents realize that this is not possible. I have to say that based on my knowledge of child protection, I do not see that adoption will be an instrument when coercion is used. I imagine that adoption is something that will be a good solution for children where parents have realized that being able to take responsibility for the child again might be something they cannot reach. But that doesn't mean that this is a scheme that I think will be used very much. I think it's very rare that we give up parents in the way that this is talking about. As one foster mother told me – when she offered her adult 18-year-old, who had lived there absolutely all her life, to be adopted, the adoption child replied: I know you're happy with me, but I won't choose between my two mothers. There's actually also one thing here, that kids shouldn't be forced to choose between the two that you're happy with in different ways in your life. We in the Left will vote in favour of the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party No. 2 I, which is in the setting, because realizing that parents are never going to make it doesn't mean that it's not. the sibling with whom the child wants to have contact. I don't imagine sharing sibling flocks in adoption cases, but it can happen, and many grandparents who can't take full responsibility for the child can help to give the child a larger network and greater contact. So I would like to say that we do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. 2 II, but I have a great sense that the child's wishes must be given weight, for example. that the child’s desire to have contact with grandmother or other caregivers who have made a difference in the child’s life should be given weight, seafarer if I do not believe that there should be any professional assessment every time. But I think good adoption parents understand how much it means for children to have contact with someone who has made a difference in their lives. Finally, on the proposal that we are making as proposal No. 4 here in the hall. It is based on great impatience from the Left, and the Council of State is free to take it out of the pulpit. We have made a number of proposals in this Chamber, based on amendments to the adoption law, to make it easier, more flexible, less bureaucratic, simpler, cheaper and more acceptable from the Norwegian authorities for all those who have taken the great responsibility it is to adopt. All the initiatives taken by the Left here in the United Kingdom led to the setting up of a public inquiry by the former Minister for Children, with a full review of adoption and leading to NOO 2009:21. There's a lot of good suggestions. We are impatient and want to have the law revised in relation to the proposals contained in the NOU, and we hope that the Government will be able to come back as soon as possible with a proper revision of the adoption law on the major issues that could mean something to many children and many families.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e232	The President interprets the representative Skei Grande to the point that she has taken up the proposal she referred to. The President will add that proposal No. 4, which is the proposal from the Left, will be addressed in a later Grand Summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e235	Today, the size of the population deals with important changes in the Child Protection Act and the Adoption Act. I am pleased that the Government's proposal is supported by the majority here today. The government has therefore put forward proposals to open a right of contact between the child and the biological parents after adoption without the consent of the parents under the Children's Protection Act § 4-20. After a careful assessment – because these questions are always difficult – we have come to the conclusion that there should be a right to have a limited contact where it will be in the best interests of the child. The intention of the proposal to open a restricted right to visitor contact is not to erode or in any way to make changes in the relationship with the adoptive parents given to the child by the adoption institute. Nor is it meant to deprive adoptive parents of full responsibility for adoptive children. The purpose is to provide the children, in cases where it is assessed as best for the child, with an opportunity to have contact with their biological parents after adoption, without compromising the stability and safety of the care situation to be provided and provided by the adoption. The legislative proposal presupposes that foster parents consent to contact between the children and biological parents. Adoption with visiting contacts can only be addressed where there is a high degree of certainty that cooperation problems will not arise between the adoptive parents and the biological parents. The crucial thing here is that we do not expose our children to new situations of conflict, but that this is carried out in situations where we are convinced that it will be for the best for the children. I assume that what we are in favour of here today will only be relevant in a small number of cases, and it is not intended that contact after adoption should become normal in the event of an adoption under § 4-20. The child protection service shall have a central role in the implementation of the contact. The protection of children shall facilitate practical contact with visitors and, if necessary, motivate the parties for cooperation. Then I want to say that what the representative of Hope has presented on behalf of the Christian People's Party about a review, I think is a quite natural signal to give, and I take that signal. It's clear that now that we're making changes like this, it's important to keep evaluating whether we're doing it and the experience we're getting. The scope of these kinds of adoptions is likely to be so small that it takes some time before we have an experience base that makes it meaningful to carry out such a review, but I fully agree with the intention behind the proposal presented by the representative. The Government has also proposed a tightening of the rules on the recognition of adoptions which should be mentioned briefly. Adoptions carried out in the country of nationality of the adopter shall no longer be automatically valid in Norway if the adopter was resident here in the country at which the adoption was carried out, as it has been until now. Foreign nationals residing in Norway, as all Norwegian nationals residing in Norway, will then have to seek prior consent from the Norwegian adoption authorities and be assessed as fit for adoption. I perceive that there is an assessment that is supported here in the hall, and that makes us even more confident that all adoptive children get good care in the families where they are adopted. Finally, I just want to talk about what the representative Skei Grande said at the end. Let me also take the opportunity to congratulate you on a new job and wish you luck with it. We're now working on the follow-up of the NOU. It's an important NOW, a very exciting debate. I am pleased to come back to Stortinget with the thoughts and suggestions that the Government will make as a result. That's something we're working on in the department right now. I don't want to estimate exactly when it comes, but we're working on the goal of following up the important debates that the sample has initiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e259	In one of the comments of the majority: ‘Consequent adoption means that adoption will not lead to an absolute breach between the child and the biological family.’ We talk a lot about the child's best, but the government in this setting has only talked about the child's contact with biological parents. A majority of the hearing bodies took this up considering that it was too subtle just to talk about biological parents, that we should talk about biological family, because we know that very many of these children need contact with siblings and grandparents, not just biological parents. My question is, does the Council of State see this issue? What is the government's reason for not opening up biological family – so don't be so clever that it's just going to mean biological parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e271	It is quite correct that several hearing bodies disagreed with the restriction imposed by the Ministry. I still believe that it is right to be careful. That's a new opening that we're giving. There are very special situations that lead to adoption according to § 4-20. There are situations where it is extremely important to create peace and stability around the child's situation. In that situation, I am concerned that we should limit how many possibilities there are for testing cases in the county, and how many possibilities there are to create instability around the child's situation. I think we're taking an important and new step in relation to biological parents, which I'll think in most cases is what will be most nearby here. We want to try out the experiences we get with it, without, at least, going further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e278	I thank the Council of State for an article with many important reflections and good points. My question, however, is about the challenges of child protection in the light of the changes that are now taking place, because at least my information has come to my attention that some municipalities now want to go through their affairs to see what child protection issues where adoption may be relevant, precisely because at the moment that foster children are adopted away to the foster family, the financial obligations for the municipalities disappear. I don't know the scope of this, but I would like to challenge the Council of State and ask him to make sure that no child protection cases are subject to adoption treatment of economic motives from municipal child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e285	Yes, of course! If there is a current issue that the representative now addresses, we must send a very clear signal to the municipalities that it is not acceptable. Once we've opened up more use of adoption, it's like a child protection measure and a clarification that we've given to the municipalities in terms of what can be done for the best of the child. But there is no doubt that there is one relationship, only one relationship that should underlie those assessments, and that is what is best for the child! Other leaders, of course, have nothing to do with that assessment. So if it turns out that that kind of assessment is being made, we're clearly going to send out a signal that you're not going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e292	Then the next representative is Trine Skei Grande. The President will also allow himself to congratulate him on his new job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e297	Thank you for that, both President and Council. I want to follow up on what the council said about the NOU, which I think was very positive. We are willing to turn our proposal into a transmission proposal. I understand that the Council of State will not say exactly when the matter comes to Stortinget. But the Council of State might say something about when it's possible to send suggestions out at the hearing, based on the NOU, so that we know that it's a progress, so we can breathe out a little bit lightly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e306	I want to be careful about giving dates, but the representative can be sure that I think the debates to which the committee has put up are exciting. I think they're important to take, and that's why we'll both follow up on this in the normal way, open up input to it, and consider all the suggestions that come to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e312	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e317	I took the floor to supplement my post with a couple of important matters that this matter is about. An important background to the issue we are dealing with today is just to be able to make it possible to respond to the feedback we receive that adoption is an underused tool in the field of child protection. The Christian People's Party will stress that we have taken the feedback, and we want to facilitate it in cases where it is best for the child. It is essential to ensure the necessary stability, predictability and safety of the individual child. I am pleased that the Council of State clarifies the seriousness of the treatment of these kinds of cases, in that adoption should not be a simple instrument to resort to. We have, as mentioned in the proposition, other countries around us that have a much more liberal practice of using adoption in child protection matters. The Committee has recently been on its way to London. It is worth noting that the experience there suggests that if adoption is too far off as a child protection measure, there will also be cases where adoption has been carried out prematurely, or cases where adoption should not have been carried out, and where child protection should be taken back after adoption. It goes without saying that it will be very traumatic and very serious to go to such an action once an adoption has been implemented. Therefore, it is important to balance this discussion on the basis that there is also a need to weigh at the opposite end. In this context, in the Norwegian picture, it would be right to soften the practice with regard to the possibility for a few more children to be adopted. I am pleased that, in the debate we have now, in connection with the adoption law, we focus more than in other debates before, not only on adopting – adopting into a new and safe family situation – but on actually implementing an adoption also means adopting away from a family relationship, which is a very serious intervention by the authorities and to which we must show humility and respect. Finally, I would like to say that proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, which is distributed in the Chamber, is transformed into a transmission proposal, based on the signals provided by the Council of State and the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e332	The President will again draw attention to the fact that it will be done in a later big meeting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2864]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e350	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2866]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e366	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 75 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Council of State 5 minutes. The President will also propose that there be a change of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e377	The debate on the vote on the draft resolution by the Minister for Transport on 9 March and the representative proposal for 54 S for 2009–2010 was originally held in Stortinget on 25 March. In view of the tragic fatality on the island of Sjur the day before, a group of transport committees wanted to postpone. This wish was met by the Presidency for respect for the relatives. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa did well for the train situation in Stortinget on 9 March. I would like to thank the Council of State for the distribution, and for choosing to come to Stortinget as it pleases. As the vote will be taken, a joint committee proposes that the minutes be drawn up by the Minister for Transport on 9 March. The Committee has also addressed Document 8:54 S for 2009-2010. A minority consisting of the Government Party suggests that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the minutes. Several proposals are made by the Committee’s plurality, including: link to anomalies management, proposals for a railway vulnerability analysis and new track capacity through Oslo. The Progress Party and the Right propose to ensure a more coordinated deployment of rail-based collective actions. The Progress Party also suggests that lifetimes of up to 50 years be used in the calculation of socio-economic benefits, while the Right and Christian People's Party suggests a faster deployment of double tracks in the intercity triangle. I'm assuming that each party will do its own thing. To this end, I will refer to the Committee's recommendation for a Decision, I-IV. I include proposal No. 4, from Right and Christian People's Party. These days we are experiencing challenges for aviation that we have never seen before. Norwegian and European aviation are caused by volcanic eruptions in Iceland, and wisha has depleted air traffic for many days. It has shown clearly how important the train is and how important it is with a good train network, not just in the central area, but for the whole country. It is worth listening to the head of the Railway Agency, Elisabeth Enger, who has recognised the following about Norwegian rail passages recently: ‘The maturity is faster than we have anticipated. It may be that the railway infrastructure is at a loss of service life.» The railway system is now starting a new overall review of the whole network. Almost four years after the German consulting company BSL submitted a corresponding report. Nobody believes that the report, such as NTP is based on, tell the truth about the quality of the network. The last four months have been the worst in Norwegian railway history. Never before have we experienced worse conditions, and the Council of State itself has determined that we have a railway crisis in Norway. At first, it was said that this crisis was due to the extraordinary winter weather, but also after the weather became normal, the problems continued – especially in the Easter week. In winter, therefore, the Christian People’s Party took the initiative in a broad railway settlement. All the political parties have for too long neglected the railway. At the same time, it has never been as bad as it is now. Therefore, there is a need for a common lift across the lot boundaries. We need to look forward. The Christian People's Party believes that such a settlement must mean a lift for the railway beyond what is in the NTP, and in this way welcomes the SV's performance today. But it's not just about more money. It is also about renewing the railway sector and taking organisational action. The Christian People's Party wants to transform the Railway Agency into a state-owned company. In this way, the Railway Agency will be able to ensure optimal and effective development – as Avinor, Statkraft and Statnet can do today. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about ensuring opportunities for greater competition within the sector, and it is particularly important that we have a good incentive system between the Railway Agency and the train crew. It is particularly one group that suffers this winter. It's the commuters who depend on the train in their everyday lives. There's been a lot of cold hours on the platform. A small but important measure is a good compensation scheme. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Consumer Council, which believes that this system must come into force at 15 minutes of delay. This morning both the Council of State and the SV have given a whole new political signal. While one in winter has defended an out-of-date NTP, there is now a need for action. It gives me a positive hope before this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e416	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e419	No modern society can function without an efficient infrastructure. In most countries, including in our own countries, efficient railway operations play a significant and sometimes crucial role. The railway has a special place because it is environmentally friendly and climate friendly and can transport large quantities of people and goods efficiently. This is an understanding it is broad and general support here in the Stortinget and in the population. The serious situation we have experienced in winter is a preliminary climax to an ever-increasing problem of stability and efficient operation of Norwegian railways. The situation must be characterised as particularly serious because it affects people’s everyday lives. It's about people going to and from work, a lot of jobs have been made difficult, children to be picked up in kindergarten have had to wait. High uncertainty and inefficiencies in the supply of goods and services have represented and represent a great burden on businesses and businesses. This also hampers the stated objective of the Storting to transfer more of the goods from road to road. This is a situation that does not call for party political disagreement about who has done the most when. Therefore, just one sentence from me on this: with a certain small exception for the Left, there are no lots or groupings in this room that have proposed greater appropriations for the renewal and maintenance of the railway than the current government. I record that the Christian People's Party will now grant more for maintenance, but it is now and not in connection with the national transport plan, which left the basis for the railway policy that is currently under way, and not when we dealt with the budget of the year a few months ago – this just as a statement of fact. I believe that the Government and the Minister for Transport have recognised three aspects. One is the importance of the railway, as has been said here, and the other is that these difficulties that we have now seen cannot continue, but above all that over many decades the railway has received too little money. The allocation to the railway, both for maintenance and operation, has been too small and therefore now triples the appropriations for four years. A number of initiatives have now been taken to correct the results of long-standing lack of railway activity, as explained by the Minister of Transport. This will improve problems both in the short and longer term. But the task of this debate is, of course, to look ahead and formulate objectives in the current situation. The railway works and the NSB organisation simply require hard work to ensure that the next winter and time in the future will be much better for passengers and freight, and that this work is the beginning of a new era for Norwegian rail. If, despite record appropriations, further appropriations this year can actually improve train provision, I feel confident that the Government will assess this in the future and, if necessary, make proposals to the Storting on such appropriations. But when this is said, I will at the same time note that the appropriations allocated to investments have not been used up, so that there may be reason to raise questions as to whether there is more money that is the solution in the short term. I am clear: the need for money is known and understood, as it is now said. But the NSB and the railway company's management and administration also have their things to answer for. Example: Why do trains be cancelled – because there are not enough staff or because there is not enough train when the train is due to leave? When the train does not arrive, why is information given to the public only long after the train should have left or been there? Is this an expression of a culture that reinforces railway problems? At least there is no doubt that this strengthens people's lack of confidence in the railways. Why this happens, the NSB and the railway management must be able to give a good answer. I would also like to say that I have registered that it has improved, but the respective works must immediately and without delay cease to owe each other when the train does not arrive, and the passengers are waiting. The size must be able to assume that there is close, confidential and effective cooperation between the management of the railway works and the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e436	Actually, I want to start by thanking all the people who work in public transport in Norway, because the big paradox is in many ways that what we are going to discuss today has gone very well – at least in the last week. When many other things have not gone, when planes have been on the ground, the railway and other public transport have made sure that at least people have come forward, even though many have been on the bus and railway for many hours to get home from e.g.. Oslo to other places of the country, or vice versa. So I think you really should take off your hat for those who have been on and done all they have been able to do so that people will actually come to terms with the difficult situation we've been in. As I said, it's a little special that when we're going to discuss all the train problems we've had in the last four months, the train has gone very well in the last week. But then it's the planes that's been standing on the ground. It's a big paradox. I think it is important to find out that it shows some of the challenges we have overall in Norwegian infrastructure. It's not like it's just in one or the other area we're struggling with. So it's like the forces of nature are there's little we can do with it. I think it was nice when we saw that some Icelandics had sent out the following message: Send us only EUR 30 billion, and we'll make sure to extinguish the volcano. Of course, there was just humor in it, but it says something about that here's the big challenges. And we have definitely big challenges in Norway. Then I think that the State Council's presentation – it's starting to be a while since it was held – was a presentation of all the visions and wishes of the National Transport Plan and of the Government's proposal for the National Transport Plan. Of course, when you're going to have a statement for the Storting, you can't take care of all the projects, but I think it was very much about the things you want to do in the future. There was very little concrete about what was the challenge for the Council of State to respond to some of the challenges and the short-term consequences, and what can be done in the short term to address the challenges on the network. So I'd like to see the Council of State be much clearer about what you're going to do now to solve the acute situation in the railway sector. But I really hope that we're done with some of the challenges we've had, and that enormous resources are now being put into doing everything you can to make sure that when winter comes back at the end of this year, we're well prepared to deal with it, so that we might perhaps avoid challenges that we've had this winter. The challenges are formidable. We know that in the context of the core network investigation, which was presented by the Railway Agency before the National Transport Plan was dealt with in Stortinget, it was said that 80-100 billion kroner were missing to get today's rail network up to a modern and satisfactory standard, which would make it an efficient and modern railway. I want to start with what has happened in the railway area. Then it's always kind of nice to go back in history, and I know it was started early in the 1800s, really, but it wasn't in the public domain. Norway's first public railway went from Oslo to Eidsvoll and opened on 1 September 1854. 29 years later, Norway launched one of the largest railway projects, namely Bergensbanen, which cost more than one state budget at that time. Norway was definitely not among the richest countries in Europe at the time, but it was committed to infrastructure, precisely because it was an important part of national construction and construction in order for people to live more places in this country. Now Norway is a rich country, and the government is depriving infrastructure. Only 10 days after the election, the Riksrevision presented a report which slaughtered the red-green road network operations and maintenance efforts. Then the red-green government had been sitting for four years. It'll be a little too easy to blame for all the governments that were before them. I mean, soon you have to take responsibility for what you do, and after four years you should start seeing results. The National Audit Office’s report was not a result of a good response to the challenges faced by the road sector and not least by the rail network. Like I said, I don't think there's anything better on the railway either. I think it's a little special that when the network we have has had a lot of problems over several months, then the response from the Red-Green Council and the State Council is that the Railway Agency is going to launch a speedy investigation rather than actually using the resources and all the capacity to deploy the rail network, where the needs are greatest now. But it might be because an upgrade of e.g. The bottleneck under Oslo could cost tens of billions, while a lightning report does not cost much more than election campaign material. That's when you start building, it starts to cost money. Clearly, it's easier to make some investigations that don't cost money, or at least small money in the big context, rather than really addressing the challenges we're facing. It must also be that there is healthy competition between the different modes of transport based on real costs. Then we need good tools to assess the socio-economic impact. Now that Sweden has used lower calculation rates than Norway for many years, we see that infrastructure projects on the Norwegian side look much less profitable than they do on the Swedish side. When Sweden spends twice as long on infrastructure as Norway, it also makes its infrastructure project on the Norwegian side look less profitable than they do on the Swedish side. Something has to be done here. With proper cost-benefit calculations, the infrastructure will be a good investment if the money is spent on the right projects. This applies to both road and rail. A large part of the train chaos in winter is due to the explosion of the capacity of the route through Oslo at central times of the day. This makes the railway in large parts of the country vulnerable to operational deviations here in the capital area. State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa concluded in her statement to the Stortinget that the Railway Agency is working on the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 to increase rail capacity through Oslo. So it's going to be at least four years without action if this government keeps going. It shows how far there is between rhetoric and action at the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Those who built the Norwegian railway in the 1800s had been disappointed by how the government manages the infrastructure they built for the nation of Norway. State councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said in his statement that she was impatient on behalf of the railway. The progress party is also impatient, but we are willing to grant the money to do so. Unfortunately, the other parties voted against our proposal for 60 billion kroner in the next ten years to the railway in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. However, we have now presented a new and separate proposal for a representative on a binding Norwegian railway investment plan, and I hope that the other parties will at least be able to agree that there will need to be a strong increase in the appropriations for Norwegian railway and Norwegian infrastructure in general. I would like to address the suggestions that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e466	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e469	The majority is responsible for the fact that Norway has a modern, efficient and collective transport system and a competitive rail system. Today we don't. We're going to have a modern transport company that brings people to and from work and home again in a fast, efficient, safe and predictable way. District policy shall be the pillar for the development of urban and working regions. It requires a railway that works. We're going to develop the welfare state and the business community. There's the railway. It's very central. When it comes to taking into account the environment, the train is also the answer. The whole country has challenges on the railways. Bergensbanen, Jærbanen, Sørlandsbanen and Nordlandsbanen have been remarkably unreliable. My train on the east line has become shorter and colder, and the possibility to use the ticket flexibly on the train and the bus took the government away the New Year's Eve. The railway infrastructure in the East must work. Everything else gives a domino effect to the rest of the country. People are moving to cities today, to the regions, the emergence becomes a challenge, and the pressure on collective solutions is increasing. The State has a special responsibility to finance the modernisation of the transport network in the four largest cities. The right has called for a status report throughout the winter. The government has now also finally realised the need and is presenting a state report to the Storting in 2010 in overtime. The railway manager has got our eyes up for the state of the railway. The statement that we are in an exceptional state has been repeated several times. Following the meeting of the Minister of Transport and the Director of the Railways, the State Council of Malta, Mr Kleppa, came almost to a settlement with a silent bomb: she said to the press that the national transport plan’s railway investment projects had now been neglected. It is mildly alarming that the nation's most comprehensive transport document is being put on hold in an hour-long meeting between the State Council and the railway director. For rail users and employees, this creates new uncertainty about the future, and towards the Stortinget, which has adopted a national transport plan, it is almost arrogant. Over 40 years, railway appropriations have been too small. But the biggest betrayal of the Norwegian railway system is that Norwegian politicians have questioned the old way of doing things: the cash principle, the old-fashioned diet-benefit analysis and the Railway Agency that both orders and executes – the list is long. In the case of the cash principle, this leads to poorer predictability of development. The railway works, suppliers and international competences take the uncertainty into account and the answer becomes much more expensive projects that also take twice as long to develop. Examples are fresh from this winter: Asker–Lysaker and new tunnel in Moss. Norwegian politicians should wipe out what our colleagues in other countries have done with great success, for example. in Sweden, where priority powers have been transferred to professional bodies. When it comes to old-fashioned diet-benefit analysis, we don't get to build the right projects in the right order. Transport projects are becoming much more profitable with other countries' calculation models than they are after the Norwegian Ministry of Finance has made its calculations. The Bondevik II administration started significant changes that the Railway Agency says have helped them to work more effectively today and to improve the control and quality of their tasks performed. The unfortunate thing is that the conversion process was transformed in the middle. The change of course was carried out in a hui and haste, without any investigation, without any analysis of the consequences, and was therefore completely irresponsible. We have seen the result of the winter train crisis, and a railway director who does not know how to acquire enough skills to solve the challenges even with enough money. The state road system and the elimination of Mesta AS have saved 850 million. kr annually, which has gone to the necessary maintenance and investment instead of an efficient administration. The right will complete the conversion of the Railway Agency that started in our reign. We will realize double tracks throughout the intercity triangle by 2020 by implementing new forms of organisation and funding. We want to use project organisation, as OPS funding for investment tasks, and we also refer to our own national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e492	I have also traveled a few thousand kilometres in the last few days as quickly as possible to be present in this important debate and discuss the very good distribution that the Council of State had, partly because the seriousness of the situation is, as the Council of State described, great, partly because it is now being done very much as it is important to obtain, which will have a positive significance, and because, of course, it has since then come new systematic information about the state of the railway system. Then I want to say that those who were affected by the problems we had with the train in winter were commuters, people who depended on the train to get life logistics – to say it like that – to go up. There was something very many people experienced daily. But what I experienced myself a few times was that adding to the NSB and other people working around the system was the victim of the frustrations that people felt standing in the middle of when the train didn't come, often unthinkable, because one should have distributed the debt in a completely different way. I think it's necessary to say two words about the story behind why we're standing there today. The permits for renewal have increased greatly from the Bondevik II government to the level we have now had in 2009-2010, from the time when the committee leader was the government council. The operating and maintenance cycles were mostly still in the Bondevik II period, while they are now at a much higher level. So I wonder how the representative Schou and the representative Hareide, in the words that one now uses about the government council and the red-green government's commitment to renewal, operation and maintenance, will describe their own efforts for operation, maintenance and renewal in the Bondevik II government, with the much lower level and the lower priorities they had at that time. We just have to admit that too many politicians over the decades have not given priority to the train. Had one done as the train prioritizers said, it would have been better, but now, of course, we have to look ahead and have it as the main perspective in this debate. Then we have to implement the national transport plan, which is a radical turnaround and an increase in the effort of trains in Norway, both in terms of investment, renewal, operation and maintenance, and keep it up. It will gradually give us the lift we need. Then we also have to see within the framework of how we can do things even better. I am pleased that the Council of State said that it would assess how we can develop the Oslo-Ski route as quickly as possible, which is an extremely important transport project, and which is important for the authorities to maintain maximum pressure. It is also necessary to take into account the railway system's reluctance to deal with the state of the rails and the material, simply for the infrastructure of the rails and the rails in Norway. This means that in the years ahead we will have to look at the need for further increases in the rights of renewal, operation and maintenance, as well as competence to achieve the best possible of the innovations that are needed in the future. It is also very positive that one in winter has done a lot to resolve the acute situations that have arisen. A series of measures have been put in place to enable one to meet the next winter in a better way, either for alternatives or for signal installations, or be willing to close for a longer period, which is not an easy decision to make, but can provide better room for maintenance and a better situation in the next round. Norway needs, as I have said before, both here and in other contexts, a train revolution for decades to come. I'm not going to stop talking about that train revolution until we get there. Now we've laid a foundation with a national transport plan, which is something quite different than what we've been able to do before. It's the beginning that we can get both the operation and the maintenance up and down, that we can get a completely different investment rate, and that we can get the important discussion about the lightning train in Norway started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e509	The situation for Norwegian railway is not satisfactory. The main reason is several decades of missing appropriations for and really focus on rail. I have felt with all the commuters who have been standing and frozen on the platform and waited and waited in winter, and often waited for a train that did not come. Whatever the colour of the government, too little money has been spent on expanding and maintaining the network. That is why I am very pleased with the reverse operation that we are now seeing as my government stands for. This government has doubled the maintenance and tripled railway investment in four years. This has been absolutely necessary, because we have to take back some of the things that have been neglected over a long time. It is demanding because the maintenance work to be carried out must be done thoroughly and properly and must be done at the same time as the trains are to run. The opposition has been more concerned with injuring the Government, and sometimes it shoots around in the best Western style with flakes and blanks, instead of making an earnest contribution to improving the situation of train passengers. If it were the train passengers the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party were concerned about, they should have prioritised train betting when they were with the government power and the Progress Party was a supporting party. But at that time they were more concerned with filling the accounts of rich people with tax reliefs and providing reorganisations, which we are struggling with today, than to bet on community solutions and wise investments in the future, such as trains and other infrastructure. Although passengers have experienced a winter at their worst in rail transport, there is no doubt that the Government and the Red-Green majority prioritise trains very high. The railway company has received the money they have asked to upgrade the line network in the Oslo area. This commitment to maintenance and repair in the Oslo tunnel and the Oslo area will be made to ensure that trains are scheduled, to get passengers to and from work, and to transport more goods by road. We have started a massive investment in traffic, on track, road and sea, and this will be the solution to the problems in train traffic in the longer term. In the short term, the solution lies in implementing many small and large measures, as the Minister for Transport has explained in his presentation. In today's picture, the solution is not in privatisation, reorganisation or other equivalency. The NSB's previous head of passenger traffic, Stein Nilsen, compared the opposition's reorganization proposal with discussing the colour of the second floor wallpaper when everyone sees it burning on the first floor. Hard and targeted work is simply required at all stages to ensure that the next winter is better for the train commuters and freight forwarders. Railways are being prioritised in a completely different way now than they were five years ago. With the government change in 2005, we started a spin-off in railway policy. We're going to do that -- it's going to take some time. According to plan, the Oslo project will be completed in parallel with the new double track between Lysaker and Asker, while the first of the new train sets will be in place, in addition to the old trains that will be refurbished for NOK 2 billion. So it's going to work in parallel with both investments, maintenance and materials. The major challenge we are now facing is the lack of professionals, both in the signal field and in other disciplines. Many of the hands and heads we needed now, ended up in the sector when the Bondevik II parties planned to compete with large parts of the railway works. In February 2005, everyone in the Railway Agency was offered a final package, and too many took a package and broke out of the railway sector. This, along with the increase in activity that we have shown, shows that competence is critically scarce. The centre party believes that we need to go in creatively to pick up professionals from other countries, so that we can maintain and build a railway for the future quickly. I also welcome the Minister of Transport's warning to re-assess the situation in the railway sector this year. It'll be very good, and also to consider whether we're going to put extra effort into the RNB. However, the Central Party also believes that we need a broader debate on alternative funding solutions towards the roll-out of the National Transport Plan in 2013. It has to be if we're going to do a lot of fast. National transport plan 2010–2019 requires the use of DKK 322 billion for transport over the next 10 years. It's NOK 100 billion more than the previous NTP, which was overfilled. It's important that we keep going ahead of you. Oslo–Ski is one of the projects within it. It will be important because it will pave the way for new projects. Today, that stretch is a bottleneck. We take the criticism and frustration of the train passengers most seriously. We have to solve the situation in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e535	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation, and for notifying more money to the railway. It's positive, and I'll come back to that. So to our proposal, which is an invitation to the Committee and to the Council of Ministers for a common lift for the railways. We've all too often blamed each other. At the latest in the Minister of Transport’s statement – and also here today – we were told that it was the Bondevik II government, set for four years, which ended its five-year period, which is the cause of the problems in train traffic. With respect to reporting, it's disclaimer, it's wrong, and it doesn't help unite the Storting about the measures necessary to resolve the train crisis. My hope was that in dealing with this matter we would take important steps in the right direction, and that we could give all those who daily experience that the train does not show up, a real alternative. I hope we can look forward to the debate, and then we can do the history in the back. First of all, what I think is an important step in the right direction. The setting states that the Left's proposal to start work on new track capacity through Oslo is supported by the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. It's a pleasure, and it gives you hope that with a new government you can move on in this work. New track capacity at a new tunnel through Oslo is important, because it is planned for four tracks west of Oslo and nine tracks east of Oslo, while there must be only two tracks through the city. It goes without saying that this will have a limiting effect on train provision in the East, but also in the rest of the country. The fact that we only have one tunnel has been shown to introduce significant vulnerability into the railway system, with delays and settings as a result. It is also positive that we receive broad support from the opposition parties for the proposal to clarify the responsibility of the NSB and the Railway Agency for the management and correction of deviations, and that sufficient resources are provided, inter alia, for them. buses. This failed in winter. We have seen the failure in the past, and it tells me that in train traffic we have not taken on board the fact that in Norway we can experience snow, ice and cold in winter. So to the point that is the most important in the left-wing proposal for a representative: an action plan for upgrading the Oslo S-Lillestrøm/Ski/Asker sections. If the Oslo Tunnel is the heart of the railway system, these are the main arteries. Unfortunately, they are in too poor a constitution and should be upgraded to a standard equivalent to the Gardermoban, at the latest within five years, as proposed by the Left. It is also clear from the Council's letter of reply that this is being worked on, that one has a cost framework of approximately NOK 2.1 billion, and that it can be implemented within a time frame of four or five years. The problem is that no timetable has been set for this work. As I understand it, the Railway Agency is calling for clear targets from the Government team and the Stortinget. That is precisely what our proposal is contributing to, clear, clear and predictable targets on which direction to take. Today we have in this hall the opportunity to take the commuters and the employees of the Railway Agency seriously. I would particularly challenge SV on this. Today they promise more money. It's fine. But there is more money over time that is the goal, and more obligating plans. The proposal of the left is precise, realistic and important in order to get the trains on board. Today, the Storting should report that this is a work supported, which is important and should be completed within a five-year period at the latest. The proposal is not part of the Committee's position. That is why the Left is promoting this proposal again in the Chamber today. I hope for broad support – also for the other proposals. Then we have taken an important step forward in solving the train crisis in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e555	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to. Before the Council of State takes the floor, the President will draw attention to the following: earlier today, the Parliament has adopted a debate on this debate with 25 minutes to the Labour Party and 5 minutes to the Council of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. The President has now received a proposal on the table that the Council of State should have 10 minutes, with the Labour Party reducing its speaking time from 25 to 20 minutes. No objections have been raised – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e562	Every day, the Norwegian railway gets a little bit better. However, it takes time to repeat decades of neglect. I am confident that we will return to the confidence of the railway. We're four months inside the most ambitious national transport plan ever. The starting point for 2010 is a close doubling of the budget relative to when the red-green government took over, and a close treble of the investments. We're going to spend $92 billion on the railway over the next ten years. It's a big lift. The last thing Bondevik II did was cut the railway budget. I understand that this is painful to be remembered. I think it's necessary to mention it because in addition to having the budget escalated, we've shown that we're following up. We overfilled the previous plan, and we're going to show that there's going to be a match between what we're saying and what we're doing. National transport plan shall be implemented. After four events on trains before and into Easter weekends – several of the serious ones, and in a special position the tragic accident on Sjur Island – I found it right to ask the Railway Agency for an orientation on the situation. On 6 April, the railway director used the term ‘delay’ to describe the situation on the track. Confirming that the national transport plan contained the 14 billion DKK requested by the Railway Agency for maintenance. She announced that in relation to the 2006 report as a basis for that amount, the Railway Agency would now carry out a new review of what is the most likely of maintenance. She also reported that the Railway Agency believed that they could carry out the maintenance planned over ten years, for eight years instead of ten. The government shall review the need for railway maintenance in the context of the revised national budget, including the relationship between maintenance and investment. Today has so far been a special experience for me. There are many people here who have done little to counteract the situation the railway is now in, who have great boldness. It's an expression that says we have to know the past to understand the past and make the right choice for the future. It is not to bother each other that we find reason to remember the past, but to provide a common understanding of the user, as well as to provide a basis for the right choices for the future. The government took over a railway with a low maintenance budget. It was like this. It didn't seem to be much of an investment asset. Well-paid professionals were sent to the door with final packages after one of the most failed conversions that have been. It will then be easy to owe today's government for neglect – omissions that the party in this room has contributed to strengthening. I don't want to stay in the past anymore. I want to focus on getting more trains on the track, and more trains on the way. Railways are future. I rejoice at the effort NSB no demonstrates in the ash cloud: extra trains, extra wagons and cooperation with the Fly train. And I am delighted with all of the individuals who are now showing that they have confidence in the train. The government's goal is for far more people to trust the train. 60 million journeys are going to take place per. years, and 80,000, many of the commuters, travel out and in from Oslo in one day. We want far more people to trust the train. And I look forward to the conclusion that the Oslo project – the maintenance of the interior triangle – is completed, that the NSB has the 50 new train sets, that the train sets they have for renewal are completed, and that the 2012 timetable is in place. The orientation of the Stortinget on 9 March gave an overview of the measures in the short term. The briefing also told how the national transport plan had been followed up so far — almost three months within a new ten-year period, at that time. The distribution is on the table today! Let me deepen the investments by saying that there are seven new, large projects: Oslo–Ski, Mossetunnel, Holm–Holmestrand–Nykkerke, Eidangerparsellen, Ulriken, the route between Eidsvoll and Hamar, and Alnabru. Then representatives from the opposition have used many fine words about the railway – and invited to a political settlement. But there's a big deal here, because there's a very ambitious national transport plan with $92 billion, with a lot of big projects and a warning about a maintenance lift. Then the opposition outside of this hall has in turn cast doubt on the projects contained in the national transport plan. They can explain that on 6 April I said that we had to look more closely at some of these projects – not scrape, but look at the phase-in of the projects based on the framework we have, based on the professionals at our disposal, and on the need for reinforced maintenance. The Committee has managed a proposal, Document 8:54. Let me briefly comment on the suggestions contained in the recommendation, and say to what is stated in II: ‘ clarify for the NSB and the Railway Works the responsibilities they have towards customers for handling and correcting the deviations in train traffic [[...]] [[...]] It's trademarks. So on to III: ‘ conduct a railway monitoring and vulnerability analysis in the Oslo area and submit a status report; [[...]] [[...]] Work is in progress on improving the state. That's why Liv Signe Navarsete took hold of an own Oslo project and got his support from the Stortinget – with the upgrade of the Oslo tunnel and the interior triangle. So it's already done. And to IV: ‘ initiate work on new track capacity through Oslo in the east-west link; [[...]] [[...]] That work was told to be done by the Railway Agency. I look forward to achieving a national transport plan. I know that there are expectations, and I know that there are great needs. Let us not spend more time arguing about details, but rather make sure that we do not doubt each other and ensure that the common lift that is in the national transport plan is realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e614	The Council of State said that this government is overcomplying with the national transport plan for rail. It's interesting to know four months out in the first part of this planning period, where there's about one missing. 850 million. kr. So the Council of State also said at the end that she is considering moving funds from investment to operation and maintenance. And that makes sense. Our challenge is that many of the investment projects are almost museum objects. They should be located at the museum and should not be part of our infrastructure. For example: The owner's parcel, as I know very well, is that the speed is now down to 20 km/h, and it may soon happen that the Railway Authority says that you are no longer allowed to drive there. The question is, which sections will the Council of State push out in time? Is that the Mosse Tunnel, is it the Ulrikken, is it the Eidanger Parcel, is it Oslo-Ski? Or what investment projects will the Council of State now push out on time? There is also a very important part of the operational and maintenance challenges on the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e623	I thank you for the question. First, when it comes to overfilling, it's the previous plan. He was over-fulfilled, unlike what different governments have done in the past when it comes to the plans that have always been. Then, in the national transport plan, we warn you of an escalation. That means we're notifying an escalation of a frame, and the total amount – NOK 92 billion – is fixed. In the case of any modification of the phase-in of some projects, it is such a big deal that it has to go back to the Stortinget, because the Stortinget has determined how the national transport plan should be. I ask you to understand – with the new information that came – that I need a review, and I do not want to push ahead with the cork postponement of phase-in or individual project at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e630	I notice that the Council of State says that this is a matter of many decades' expiration, and then I am surprised that she is staying at Bondevik II all the time. But I can stay a little while at Stoltenberg I – and I think that this is the statement that there are many decades of neglect to try to agree on. It just leads to political contempt, to blame each other. So the council says that every day the railway gets better. But the railway manager says that the maturity occurs faster than intended and that the infrastructure on the railway network can be at the pace of its lifetime. During the Bondevik II government, the regularity was 90 pst. And better; today it is 70 pst. I want to ask the Council of State what she thinks is the reason why regularity has become so bad in five years, because that is when the Government has ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e639	I think the main thing about regularity is that there's actually a lot more trains going on, and so there's also a lot more trains to paint. So that it gets worse. It can get worse before it gets better. Obviously, when the Oslo Tunnel is closed for a month this summer, a lot of people will feel worse. But it is done in the hope that both the autumn and winter will be better. And then it's inevitable that in order for one to carry out the necessary maintenance, it has to be done in the track. That means distractions. So once the maintenance is done, regularity and punctuality get better. This is my message: there is maintenance every day, therefore the Norwegian railway will also be better every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e646	I was disappointed that the Council of State chose to spend the most time on history, and not just looking forward – not least from what we heard on the radio today early. I also think it's a little strange that the government council of Meltveit Kleppa spends so much time on the Bondevik II government, when we know that the depositor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa supports three out of four budgets from the Bondevik II government, and the last year it was only a marginal increase. My question might have been if the Council of State believed that the marginal increase would have meant a real difference, when it supported three out of four budgets from the Bondevik II government. But that's not what I want to ask questions about. I want to focus on Elisabeth Enger's serious words that the railway's infrastructure can stand on the brink of its lifetime. And the question is, when we know that reports on which NTP is based do not prove to be correct in relation to the problems we have: will the Council of State then look at changes in relation to NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e653	A plugin that applies to the previous answer: when the track is not maintained, it is more punctual, of course. Then to the future. My story description here was a small part of my post – I understand that Hareide experiences it as a great deal. I am busy for the first time that there is a need for a review in the revised budget of the need for maintenance, based on the railway manager's words. Then I am busy that the projects that are announced in the national transport plan will be phased in. And then I'm very pleased with the commitment that I've seen through this winter. I hope it keeps going when it comes to the railway. This promises good for the revision of the National Transport Plan in spring 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e662	Unfortunately, for five years in a row, there is a lot of backwardness with some bad history writing: I just want to mention: the Bondevik I government, which spent time, forces and money on the major problems associated with the rapid Gardermoen expansion, the Bondevik II government, which experienced the tragic Asta accident, and which spent time, forces and money on new signal installations. But now I almost don't get time for the question. The Left is today promoting a concrete proposal with concrete objectives within a five-year period in the Oslo area. The Minister of Transport said – as I said in my speech – that this was possible to reach within four to five years. I think it would be very important signals to give the travellers, and not just say that this we will come back to in the annual budgets. But why not say today that within five years you have to commit in this important Oslo area? I understand that it has also been requested within the railway works, namely that it should be binding. We had come a long way by now. Today, if we commit ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e669	First of all, I think it is crucial that the Oslo project is allocated funds now year after year in accordance with what has been notified, so that it can be implemented. Secondly, there is no doubt that there is a need for increased capacity in the Oslo area, through Oslo. It's necessarily going to have to be worked out. I think it must be an important premise for the forthcoming roll-out of the national transport plan that it has been clarified. In addition, I hope that even when it comes to the intercity triangle – Oslo-Lillehammer, Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien – one has laid a foundation that allows one to fast when it can be finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e675	At least then I can see that the national transport plan has not been followed up after four months with this government and after the first draft budget. It's okay. Then I find it sad that the Council of State will not be specific about what projects you intend to postpone. The council once again says we're going to have a review. I think there have been enough reviews, and there have been enough plans that have been made in the railway sector, so I'd like to see that instead of always working on planning, maybe you could start with a little bit of action. I want to challenge the Council of State, because she has just started the lightning investigation to 50 million. kr. Would it not have been better instead of conducting planning and investigation on a high-speed train or a lightning train, to spend the money on getting projects ready, so that they can be launched and started doing something about the operational challenges and maintenance challenges we face on the railway network? And then I want to challenge the Council of State in another important area, namely the signalling installations, which are not within the national transport plan, but which are cost-based at NOK 15-20 billion. How do you intend to make sure you do something about it as well? It's coming at the top of the second. Will it also be at the expense of operation and maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e686	It's important for this government that there is consistency between what we say and what we do. We have a statement on the lightning train. We have followed it up by putting in place a statement that will be ready on 1 February 2012. When it comes to signalling systems, it is a difficult challenge. We have to go through this a little bit closer before we notify a strategy for phase-in. What is announced in the National Transport Plan in this area is that we will try ERTMS on the east line in Eastfold. It should be followed up. Then I'm probably surprised that the representative Hoksrud doesn't take on the fact that people weren't ready. If we had come with a flat frame in 2010, it wouldn't have been our people to start all these projects. So things have to be planned a little bit more. That's why we're notifying you of an escalation. Hoksrud can follow closely, and then he will see that the national transport plan is escalated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e695	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e698	After what has been a critical winter for Norwegian rail, it is good to see that the railway now delivers when other means of transport can be prevented by the ash. Not least, it must be good for the staff of the NSB and the Railway Station, who have been standing in the middle of the shooting line for the whole winter. There is reason to thank the first line service for having endured and done its best to get frustrated customers to work or home, or to get the goods carried to where it is going. The railway history of the last decade is the history of neglect. All parties, including the Workers' Party, must take responsibility for it. That's understandable when Per on the platform, rightly, is cursed because the train doesn't go. He wants the train to go on a route. And he wants to keep it on track – yesterday. It was a time when the railway was the symbol of development and progress. It hasn't been like that in the last decades. But I'm optimistic that we'll get there again, that we're already on our way to a new spring for the railway. All parties now speak hotly of the railway, some with more credibility than others. I want to say this about the opposition's silent rhetoric: the representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party began to write railway history from the pulpit instead. Well, if the Progress Party had managed the railway policy in the years when the Progress Party has been a party, we would have had no debate on the railway today. Then we had no longer had any railway. So what makes the Left think that they're going to do more with the same parties that they cooperated with the last, and that didn't do enough when they had the opportunity? In its alternative budget for 2010, the right does not have a krone more for rail, and the Christian People's Party does not have a krone more for maintenance in its 2010 budget proposal. I say like in the movie Jerry Maguire: 'Show me the money!' The employees of the railway have the memory in order. They continue to be provoked when the Right Party and the Christian People's Party criticize today's ruling parties for sins of omission. Those who are left in the Railway Station remember the colleagues who disappeared when Bondevik II reorganized and said they were good at 250 employees. Lars Saabye Christensen has written: ‘When was it really that the tapes were cut where has it been of all the boys?’ Well, they got final packages and are today consultants, or even barians in Thailand. The staff remember very well the lack of money in the budgets. That's why the representative Hareide is accused of having the gift of rudeness in the last edition of the member magazine of the Railway Federation. The comment article of the editor concludes as follows: ‘Haride represents, in spite of all the party, whose prime minister had the political responsibility for the very worst maintenance budget in railway history.’ That's all I'm gonna say about history. The train passengers, the companies to bring the goods forward and the railway staff deserve to focus on what is happening and what is to be done with the railway. I would like to say this about the Railway Agency: they have had problems with the aftermath of the reorganisation and all the employees who had to leave in 2004. But development has turned around after 4.5 years with the Workers' Party in government. The railway works get almost twice as much money. We invest three times as much as in 2005, the level of ambition for the railway is high. The railway station has received the national transport plan they requested a year ago. Now we demand that they deliver and use the money they have asked for. We have to see results in the time that comes that show that things actually get better. Then there are now other signals than a year ago. As the Minister of Transport was about, we need to review it to see if we can rust up more quickly. The government will come back to that. It is a great responsibility for the Railway Agency and the train operators to carry tens of thousands of passengers daily in time to work and home again and tonnes of goods to the freight consignees. This winter has shown how vulnerable the system is and the consequences when trains do not leave. Travelers demand improvement. There's a lot of upgrading of the railway now. Information for travellers is a must. I think it would be an advantage if it was clearly said what is done of maintenance work, and, on the other hand, what the travellers can expect. What is going to be e.g. the result of the summer closure in the Oslo area for four weeks? People are asking for information, and they have to get it. It is also an advantage for us as politicians at Stortinget, who grant the money. This is a debate on a proposal from the Left on the presentation made by the Minister for Transport in Stortinget on 9 March. It was about the short-term and long-term measures to get the trains on board. With regard to the short-term measures, I think the committee chairman, Hareide, summed it up nicely in Political Quarter on 10 March, the day after the presentation. On questions about what actions he would take, the representative answered Hareide: I think we have to be so honest as to admit it, that any rapid improvement in the rail system, we will not see that. And I want to say that I feel that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken some of the short-term measures that have been quite right. There I would like to pay tribute to the minister. I agree. It seems that we have a common understanding. At the same time, I would like to point out that preparedness needs to be improved, especially in winter. It must be allowed to expect from those who operate trains and rails in Winter Norway that the standby is good enough. That it was not good enough in winter, the Railway Station has also admitted in the last issue of the Railway Station. The working party assumes that the winter readiness of both the Railway Works and the NSB will be good enough in the next winter, and that it will now take the necessary steps to achieve it. For those of us who are concerned with the railways, short-term crisis response is not enough. For many years, the railway has been down-prioritized. For many years, the railway must be prioritised, maintained and invested in. The Labour Party and the Government are in progress, but we must realize that long-term and predictable efforts are what must be made. Today’s NTP needs to be implemented, and we need to have a new national transport plan in 2013, which is time-fixing and advancing the double-track development between Halden, Lillehammer and Skien. Half the population of Norway and most of the daily train travellers are located in that area. Local traffic around Trondheim and Bergen and the distance between cities must also be improved. This is important for passenger transport, but not least for freight transport. We have a national transport plan that has worked for over three and a half months. It shall be maintained and built more than many years in the coming years. Remarkable changes will occur. Railways are now being built and maintained with full pressure. History has taught us that making ambitions also brings bad results. If we are not just going to rely on cars and planes in Norway in the future, the railway has to get a power cap. Here is the Workers' Party and the Government in progress. Then I am also convinced that we need to get some progress in the financing of the railways. We don't need private money. We need to invest the public money we have in value creation, jobs and community construction. We did that 100 years ago in Norway. You do it all over Europe and in the rest of the world now. We have to do yours, too, and we're doing it. When the Workers' Party came into government in 2005, operating and maintenance expenditure had fallen year after year. Since 2005, these budgets have become higher and higher. They're going to keep doing that -- maybe even in an even steeper curve. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e751	The representative of Gorm Kjernli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e754	This is a major distinction in Norwegian policy. On the one hand, we have politicians talking about lightning trains, but they are not, or have not been, willing to use what is needed to rust up today's railway. On the other hand, we have politicians who have realised that Norway is not suitable for lightning trains, but who want to further develop and upgrade today's railway network. The struggle is about between the commitment of the Progress Party to safe trains and new double tracks and the high-twisted, unrealistic love of the other parties to lynch trains. I can't see that there will be neither money nor resources for both, as the situation is today. In the 2010 Alternative State Budget of the Progress Party, we promoted an investment framework of SEK 6.85 billion more than the Government's proposal, but were defeated by the lynching parties. We see that this money has actually been a screaming need. The winter you can call 'it always stands a train' shows that. The price tag on the lightning net in Norway, after what I have heard, is approximately NOK 350 billion. The interest charges alone for such a high-speed train network can quickly end at 18 billion kroner a year. This is an interesting figure, because in 2009 there were 18 million passengers inside the Gardermoen. So only the interest charges for the light train network are equal to NOK 1000 in charge for every passenger who was in the Gardermo. The flight train has a completely different punctuality from that of the NSB. If the flight train had had as many delays as the NSB had recently had, there would have been many angry passengers who had not pulled their planes. The times when the air train has been stationary, it is usually due to signalling errors and other problems, which are the responsibility of the Railway Agency. The success of the flight shows that competitive outsourcing is beneficial, and we might want to see if the Airtrain can expand its boundaries or take-offs. Oslo-Halden is probably an example of the lines of the train case and one of the most important routes in Norway. Of course, it is positive that all parties on the Stortinget agree with the expansion of the Oslo-Ski route, but it is very disappointing that it is only the Progress Party that wants to continue this project all the way to Halden. Therefore, in the proposal for a national transport plan by the Progress Party, we set at NOK 15 billion more than the other parties to the Haug-Halden route. Imagine if the other parties could have supported the proposals of the Progress Party instead of spending a lot of time and effort on lightning trains. So far, the inconsistency of the lightning train is also the biggest obstacle to upgrading the railway where it really needs to be. I can't see that neither the Right Party nor the Christian People's Party has put any money into their budgets for the money they want to spend on trains today, but let's stand together and bet on safe trains and safe tracks where the need is greatest. Let's stand together, so that upgrading the railway becomes a reality and not just talk – so that the unworthy conditions for commuters and other train users become history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e769	There are not too many areas of society in which we have to fight a hard fight with Albania. But in the case of the train situation, we have a trick saying in front of them per. today. In 2009, trains had 1 250 delay hours just around Oslo, and 300 of these were due to error messages. In total, Norway there were 1,920 delay hours only in December. The Bondevik II government went off in 2005 and left a railway on its way. Punctuality had increased in the period and was well over 90 pst. The appropriations had also increased during the period, and the switchover of the Railway Station was underway. The industry prepared itself for a competitive outsourcing of the maintenance tasks, which would improve the railway system’s ordering role and ensure a better customer focus. The Stoltenberg government spent exactly two weeks stabbing the wheels of this conversion. Within 14 days, the Minister of Transport was able to stop the transition, in the middle of the process. As a result, there were no gains at the conversion. The appropriations for conversion were cut, and the railway works' ability to continue as before was severely weakened due to the loss of important competence. The change in course was carried out in a hui and haste without investigation, without analysis and was, according to the Right's view, completely irresponsible. The Minister of Transport should actually apologize to the train passengers that the Government did not take the time to check the consequences of implementing the Soria Moria declaration and stop the ongoing conversion. No technical justification is given in the budget proposal for the Stortinget. It just says, ‘The Government considers that tasks essential for the stability and safety of the network must be operated under the direction of the Railway Agency.’ This can be said to be thoroughly refuted after the train chaos of the last few months. Train chaos are headlines that sell well in the East. In Akersgata, the situation we have today has come with us. Thousands of commuters experience an offer that does not work as it should. The trains are overcrowded, they don't walk in the lane, and sometimes the train doesn't show up at all. But it's not just in the east that the chaos here is. The Mountain Railway, now over 100 years old, has celebrated some dubious highlights during the last period of its long and proud tradition. The recent figures show that Bergen is also in contexts other than football under the red line. The overview of punctuality on the track shows that we are in times of misery in the country. But, to make it clear, this is not a position – neither on the football field nor on the railway – we want to keep it. For this reason, the Right is optimistic about the future of the railway, but clear action is required from today's sitting government. Any government, regardless of batch color, has been able to boast in recent years that they have given more money than ever for all kinds of purposes. On the other hand, when you look at what you've got out of these funds, there's reason to ask yourself questions. Modernisation and innovation may not be what many associate with today's red-green government, but that's what today's train passengers actually need. In 1952, the then Minister of Transport, Jakob Pettersen, as was the representative of Godskesen, the plans, the idea and the idea of high-speed trains in Norway. Now, 58 years later, high speed investigations were carried out on several sections. We in the Right want to welcome the investigations and look forward to a discussion about high-speed which is really anchored. The Bergensbanen cost, as mentioned earlier, a full state budget and provided the basis for a new and better form of communication between east and west. Although today we have a challenging situation on today's existing offer and structure, this must not set skylights for good and visionary thoughts. To sum up, if we're going into the elite series in the train sector, we need action and vision. We need more maintenance, we need more modernisation, we need more competition, and we need to dry out visions for a rail offer even 100 years in advance. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e796	The President does not add extra time to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e799	Over 100 years ago, courageous and foresight politicians made the decision to build Bergensbanen. They realized that if we were to build Norway and bind the country together, we needed the railway. 100 years later I took the train on the same route, after the Transport Committee had been traveling in Hordaland. The night train that I was going to travel with was set, and instead of the sleeping car there was a trip on a cold locomotive over the mountains from the west to the east. Too many passengers have had such disappointments in the last year. The railway has a special place in society because it is environmentally friendly, because it transports goods and people efficiently, because it binds the country together, and when air traffic is paralyzed by ash, you can rely on the train. In particular, there has been a positive development in the train in recent years. The number of passengers has increased, the same is the amount of goods. This has, paradoxically, probably contributed to triggering the train crisis we have seen this winter. Lack of maintenance over ten years combined with bursting capacity to the limit is the cause. When the red-green majority took over in 2005, we understood that the lack of investment on the railway could not continue. We couldn't defend that one of society's most important infrastructure pillars would crumble away. That's why there are no lots in this room that have done a bigger lift for the railway than the red-green government. The opposition has also today been hard hit against the Government for the train crisis. I wish the opposition could be as honest as former Minister of Transport Dag Jostein Færvoll of the Christian People's Party, when he explained the lack of appropriations for maintenance in today's Business and Business saying: ‘I have been the rapporteur. You are not selected in water and sewerage.» The fact is that the opposition has not delivered – not when they were in a position to do so, most recently under Bondevik II, nor when the National Transport Plan was adopted by the Stortinget, or in the annual budgets. Worst is the Progress Party. The budgets of the Progress Party from 2004 to 2008 would have given DKK 10 billion less to rail – a complete fury. Now the Progress Party travels around and proposes bets on the railway everywhere, from the Drangsdalen in the south to the Kirkenes in the north. But the billions they raise to the media for new investments and maintenance do not have coverage in their own budgets. The Head of Committee Hareide was quick out and criticised the Government for the train problems and lack of maintenance. At the same time, he knows that the Christian People's Party did not propose an extra crown for the maintenance of the railway in 2010 – otherwise the exact same frailty that Hareide took when it came to racial protection, when it crashed in many lires in the West. But the coolest part is the right. Neither in 2009 nor in 2010 the party proposed a krone more than the Railway Government. On the contrary, the Right proposed several million dollars more than we did in dividends from the NSB. Nevertheless, the railway-political spokesmen of the party, Ingerd Schou, go out in today's business on April 12th, in connection with a statement on the NSB's profits, and say: "When we were little, we learned that it was cowardly to give away with one hand and bring the other." I think it's even cowardly not to dry up for his own policy, as Ingerd Schou does. The red-green majority shall double railway investment between 2010 and 2019, compared to the previous NTP. It will, among other things, give us a doubling of the capacity for freight transport. The maintenance effort has increased by nearly 60 pst, as requested by the Railway Station. We're going to have a thorough review to see if it's possible to spend even more money on maintenance in the next few years. The train trip over Hardangervidda is beautiful, but also important. It binds Norway together. That's why we're about to go back to the railway. That's why it's one of our most important red-green projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e831	The President would point out that referring to parties as ‘frequent’ is not a parliamentary expression in this Chamber. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e837	The representative is forgiven, because she didn't bring the whole quote. Yes, Bondevik II also took dividends, and so does today's government. But what I said was that the question is whether it's wise now, because we're in a completely different situation, whether that's right, because the railway -- the NSB, the railway system, the infrastructure -- needs all the money they can get. I would also like to point out that the regularity was best under Bondevik II – 90 pst! It's today's government that has such bad regularity, at 70 pst. It's explained that we've got more trains, but they're not coming, they're colder, and they're shorter where I'm driving. I hear representatives from the government parties say that today's government is high at national transport level. 30 years until I get double tracks to Halden – it's too bad. Today’s government – with a central party council in the chair – then fails district policy and business policy. It's not a big bet. The right has proposed new forms of financing with OPS. Governments have said no. We have our own alternative transport plan, with DKK 50 billion set aside for maintenance funds. That would give you approx. $2.5 billion more for maintenance every year, where more than half a billion would go to the railway, i.e. a double, just to get back on track. The government says no, and I look forward to the government seeing that there is more than money needed to get infrastructure and railway up to a decent and competitive level. It's also about the modernisation and reorganisation of today's organizations, in line with what we've seen from the time we had the Telegraph, and now Telenor, Mesta, and I can mention more. At the beginning of the 20th century, in 1914, Ashim – when the industrial community of Ashim – created three urban railways for the power plants of Cyckelsrud, Vamma and Solbergfoss respectively. It was a time of greatness. I think we should all still have the goal of getting a train revolution – I have heard some of the representatives talk about – that is comparable to the effort that was when we once built the Bergensbanen and the city railways in Ashim. So we have proposed 50 billion kroner for the maintenance fund. We also have a desire to have a continuous transparency, customer focus, comprehensive planning, a deviation documentation, good contingency plans, a unified real-time information and a common ticketing system. We must have ambitions on behalf of Norwegian railways and infrastructure – far beyond what we have today. The answer is not just money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e852	The Council of State today says that we should return to the confidence of the railway. That's a great ambition. She also says that the railway is the future. Yeah, I think we all agree on that. Railway is the future. Railways are environmentally friendly communications, rail is a comfortable mode of transport, it is comfortable – at least in some cases. I'm not referring to this week's transport, I'm coming back to it. The railway is important for the settlement, because we see a tendency that very many people will live in the big centers, and it's impossible to live there for everyone. It is necessary to have an effective means of transport to get in. The state of airspace in the last week has shown that we are dependent on the railway. It is unmistakable that we should have all the personnel and all the cargo on the roads – it is completely impracticable. That's why the railway is so important. I traveled a lot by rail in the 1970s, and it was pleasant. I also traveled a lot by rail in Central Europe. It wasn't comfortable. I was proud of the Norwegian railway at that time. But after that time there has been a gradual development, and it is not good. In this Chamber there have been some criticisms today, specifically to the Bondevik II government. I very much appreciate Gorm Kjernli, who says that the Workers' Party must also take part in that criticism. I think we're all going to take our share of that criticism. If we go to the statistics, we see what has happened in infrastructure investments in Norway since the early 1980s, when oil revenues started coming: we increased the revenues, for which we found a place abroad, and then we reduced the infrastructure. It concerns road and rail, and it also applies to electricity line investments. Now I'm talking relative and not in dollars and cents. That's why I think we should take it. What we've spent the money on in the meantime is to give us a lot of good things, and that's fine. That's why we've been given the status of the world's best country to live in. The question is whether we continue to be the world's best country to live in if we don't manage our transport. I don't think so. I had the pleasure of traveling by railway last week. It was okay a bit, but I did not do another bit, because I was tricked – I bought a ticket from something that I did not get. That's not good. That's why I think it's nice that Kolberg was into the fact that there's a lot to do without someone spending a lot of money. It has something to do with administration and information, it has something to do with care about. I almost feel sorry for some of the conductors and staff who were not informed about what was going to happen. So here I feel that there's a lot to pick up. I'm asking the Council of State to think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e865	The representative of the Bjørnflaten referred to the excellent historical review of the economic life of today last Saturday of the development of the railway from the 1970s and towards the government shift in 2005. This is, to the extent that it is a correct and quite important separation of time. The report ends with the former Minister for Transport Torild Skogsholm, who explains that she did not find good enough arguments for the train in contact with the Ministry of Finance, and therefore had to be very careful. May I then be allowed to add quite generally that state councils who seem so poor about their own budgets that they do not see themselves able to bear responsibility, will always have the opportunity to ask for exemption. This also applies to former railway directors, such as Osmund Ueland, who in the same report complain about irresponsible politicians. Otherwise I remember Ueland, whose first task was just to stand for open television cameras on Oslo S and take responsibility, until he did it once too much. In the final issue of the Railway Station, both the NSB and the Railway Station enter this winter's unfortunate events. Managing Director of NSB Passenger Train, Tom Ingulstad, says: "We take it for granted that the next winter will be at least as hard. And we're going to add the list so that we can withstand the unexpected better." Railway Station Director John Ole Grinde says: «We order the required cleaning equipment and this shall be clear in front of the next winter.» Understood: So readiness has not been good enough. So you haven't had the equipment you need to deal with a normally hard winter. That's what's now going to be the problem in the future. I'm also in order for the railway to get more money, as many others are. But it doesn't happen by almost saying adhoc messages in the NRK. It shall occur as part of a long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e882	The representative Bjørnflaten says that when they took over red-green in 2005, they saw the need to do something about the railway. Then I thought it was very strange that the budget was so small in 2006, that the budget was so low in 2007, that the budget was so low in 2008, that the budget was so low in 2009. Yes, it was actually the financial crisis that came in 2009, which led to great extra promises, and which fortunately was passed on in the budget for 2010. Some people here have said that I have boldness, but I have to say that I am a little impressed by the freedom of the government party that after five years of driving comes to Stortinget and says that it will get worse before it gets better with Norwegian railway. But I still want to join in what Gorm Kjernli says – we share a shared responsibility. I have stressed this in the debates I have had, that we must all take responsibility. But it is true that once the Railway Federation has criticized me, it has not been for the promises, but it has been for the news I want in the railway. I want the Railway Agency to have opportunities – like Avinor, as Statkraft, as Statnett – to raise loans, to guarantee that when they start investing heavily, they will be properly completed, that it will be an efficient and good way to do so. I think that's more important than ever. It's true, as Gorm Kjernli says, that I have given honor to Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa for the management of the short-term challenges on the railway in winter. I don't think any minister could have arranged it in a better way than Kleppa has done these months. But what I think is a challenge is actually the long-term features of Norwegian railway. However, for this national transport plan – which is yes, is better than most national transport plans; it is the best time for the railways – it is not good enough. So we will have to deal with the problems – only in the east – for decades to come, even with the investments and the maintenance investments in the national transport plan. Then we can share blame, which I think we have too good for in this debate here. But the challenge is that the plan, the underlying plan, is not good enough, and it's a common responsibility for all the parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e893	I've been commuting from Fredrikstad almost continuously since June 1983. At that time the overhead contact line fell down at least once a month, and the train was so never on the way. It's a quantum leap up to what we're experiencing today, both in terms of capacity, quality, number of train departures and regularity on the Eastfold Railway, because they don't go through the Oslo Tunnel. The pipeline is hanging up, and in the 1990s a new double track was built for high speeds between Ski and the Bay of Sand in Moss. Now we have to get through this city. So this is not good enough. There is agreement here that it is a responsibility we must take quite collegially in this Chamber. I think it was in 1987 or 1988 that Minister of Transport Kjell Borgen presented a big message that started the change – when new overhead lines were hung up, and new material was made available. The aim of that message was that the double track to Halden should be finished by the turn of the century – what we have behind us, not what we have in front of us. But it has not yet entered the Moss station. So it wasn't followed up enough by the governments we've been since. There is agreement here, but I still have to smile when I see that the Right and Christian People's Party in the election indicates that the Bondevik II government prioritised a higher percentage of GDP for railway purposes than the Stoltenberg government did in 2005-2008. There's a new measurement method The right has begun to use in all contexts, measuring the priorities as a percentage of GDP. Last year GDP went down, and that means keeping the allocation constant, prioritizing the field. But it didn't become one more penny of that way of thinking about it. Railways are built for money – for dollars – and not for percentages. Knut Arild Hareide says we have to think again, and we might have to give greater freedom to the Railway Agency and the NSB. I think we'll think about that. But when he compares with Statnett and Statkraft, it is the significant difference that Statnett and Statkraft make their own money, also for investment. NSB will never be able to do that, because then the train ticket will be too expensive. It turned out with the Fly train; it was the idea of the Fly train. So what did we have to do? Well, we had to go in and give up the investment afterwards because it was simply not possible to earn it over the operation. So it says that it's never so bad that it's not good for anything, and the good thing about what we've experienced with the railway is that now the Progress Party has discovered that the railway has some friends out there who are also voters, and that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e904	This winter and spring have shown us to a great extent how vulnerable we are if we put everything in one piece, if there is transport on the road, in the air or on the rails. A balanced and flexible transport system is therefore important. I would like to refer, as some representatives earlier here, to the article that was in Today's Business on Saturday. It was a good article that gave a little insight into the country's railway history. Missing maintenance priorities and appropriations for the last 40 years were raised. Yes, sail left's former transport minister Skogsholm admitted happily that she did not have enough impact in her own government to get money for maintenance. What she got through to, however, was to help ensure that a major break with employees at the Railway Agency accepted the final package and disappeared from the company with its competence, competence that takes time to rebuild, and that is absolutely crucial in the future. Then we stand here and throw ball and admit less responsibility, debate as if the new NTP is out of date before it has begun to work, and make new bids. Yes, the offer is probably good, but I think it actually got a little awkward. It was also a little too awkward to try to draw a picture that today's government has not prioritised transportation and must stop blaming previous governments. If one is careful to read the article in Today's Business, one should have a good imagination to characterize it as history falsification and fiction. Today's situation requires keeping your head clear and being a constructive contributor to correcting old sins. Easy populism doesn't build a single rail. The situation in winter has been extreme, and the challenge is that this situation will be more extreme for every year that goes, if we are unable to implement what is now planned. If we're going to improve the railways both for people and goods, and regardless of what kind of project to prioritize up or down, there are three things that must be at the root of: priority, money and people. Each batch has slightly different priorities when it's snowing to. The Minister for Transport has explained well to the Storting about the measures that are now in progress in order to deal with errors and shortcomings. Everyone who has restored a house knows it takes time. When you tear a wall, it can be a city of surprises you don't like as much. If you've cleaned up one room, you'd like to see that it's worn out elsewhere. I'm optimistic on behalf of the railway, and with the commitment of the railways both from the grassroots and through the political parties here now, I guess the railway will be prioritised in the years to come. Ashskys have shown us that this is not all we are master of yet, and that means that we must have a balanced and flexible transport policy where the railway plays a central role, and not just in terms of climate. As commuter on a low priority route, I am delighted to the day I can walk off the train without feeling that I have been in a shaker. Driving the Gjøvik track is not exactly a rest home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e923	Many of us have received an e-mail in the last one that says Iceland is going to close the volcano if they get 30 billion euros. He's funny, but at the same time, the situation is likely to get so that the loss of the volcano is greater than this amount, when you look at how the air traffic is now stopping and the permitting response is coming. SV has today presented a plan that we are working on for maintenance. Of course, we have the negotiated result with the other parties at NTP, but we now believe that we actually have to go through the maintenance and crossing tracks and various other things again to reduce the amount in this area, not least with the experience from this winter. Then we talk about a number of approx. SEK 1.3 billion per year for additional maintenance and for crossing tracks. But back to that, we've been flying on the ground many places. Many of us here are also airline customers, and many were the last weekend that evaluated how to get us home. Should we try to get on the train, should we try to rent a car, or how should we do this? I'm still staying in Oslo. There are quite a few hours to leave when you are going to run or take a train. We're actually talking about 14 hours of trip-return Stavanger if you're going to commute home, like me. But if we're making a train revolution, as the government is now doing -- it's been a high-speed arrangement, which is behind a bunch of piles, minus the Progress Party, which is going on – a few days can go down to the trip-return Stavanger in four hours. Then you start talking about something. Then we talk about the flight being able to stand on the ground, as they do today many places, because people want to choose trains. I come straight from a meeting in the NHO in Eastfold, where one of course is busy doing something with the material one has today, but where one is obviously busy with the large freight traffic one has across the borders through Eastfold, and where one of course is busy getting fast train connections with Gothenburg, against Germany, towards Europe. There are also solutions for those in Eastfold to move transport from road to road, for example. I think that the next time Jens gets into an accident because of his wish and has to drive a car from Madrid – in 2020, when Jens is still prime minister – he's going to drive all the way to Oslo, and would like to be with me to Stavanger if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e938	I do not know who to call worst or fear from this pulpit, but when it is said that the Progress Party is going to build a railway for the Churches, it is a serious exaggeration. On the other hand, we have put forward proposals to establish a possible rail link from the Kirkenes to the Russian railway network. Then you can choose to present what you want. The problem with the railway ends at the end of a big question: Do we trust the train – can the NSB and the Railway Agency deliver their goods through regularity and punctuality? Quite independently of the ash clouds from Eyjafjallajökul, the situation we are experiencing in Norway, the crisis meeting after the crisis meeting, it's stopped, there are delays, and there are very serious accidents. And even though the Progress Party, in line with most other parties, believes that in a dynamic society it's clear that we have to have both the path, the road, the plane and the ferry to function as a community, it's so neither the plane, the road or the ferry have had the same problem as the NSB has had. Then it's kind of nice to listen to Svein Roald Hansen, who says that this situation has been the same all the way back to 1983. From my point of view and from the point of view of the Progress Party, the solution to the major lack of rail is to put in place modern financial instruments and adequate appropriations. But we experience through every treatment that the government is going against putting in place modern financing solutions. We want to set aside funds to step up rail development in Norway. We are promoting proposals for OPS funding and for project financing, and we are proposing funding that is not tied up to the annual budgets. Only on the Ashker-Oslo route could you avoid an additional consumption of NOK 2 billion. But instead of discussing what's going on for the NSB, you end up standing on this platform and accusing each other of what's happened over the last 20 years, and that's a shame for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e949	It is a shame that the representative Bjørnflaten is not present in the hall, when she was not truthful in her post – at least in the history description – to say it carefully. The Progress Party, in its alternative draft budget and in its alternative draft budget for 2010, has followed up the Progress Party's proposal for a national transport plan of SEK 6.8 billion more to rail. What the Progress Party has done in addition is that we have said that we want to look at new opportunities and new solutions to the challenges we have on our railway network. I think, unfortunately, that is the way, at least with the political leadership we now have, that the will is not there to ensure that the necessary funds are allocated to the state budget. Then you have to use other possibilities. We have proposed an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion for both road and rail. We have proposed to ensure that the Railway Agency is separated as a company that can be allowed to borrow so that they can invest in infrastructure and provide for development on the railway network, and for the State Road Service on the road network. When I hear the representatives of the red-green parties in the pulpit here, it sounds like it's everybody else's fault. You're very busy blaming things backwards in time. Then it is at least possible to look at the history and what happened from 1945 until today. Then there have been 22 governments, and 14 of them have been led by the Workers' Party. Eight have been led by the Right/Centre, one of the eight perhaps was more of a pure Right-Registration. Then I think with respect to notifying that the parties that are now responsible for everyone else before and that are now soon in government for five years should begin to take responsibility for the challenge we have with regard to the railway network. I think the important fact is, what do you do in the future? The debate has little to do with what we are going to do in the future. I want to challenge that, because I think that's what this is about: what does the Railway Agency do, and what does the NSB do with the challenges we're facing? Enger said earlier in the process that it was not possible to spend more money – she has changed it a little lately – while the NSB has said that it is completely possible to spend more money. I wonder if it has become such that the railway works are a bit sideways and have their own ways of doing things. It's at least the feedback I get from people who work in this area, but don't dare stand up, because they're afraid to lose their job if they say anything about the railway works that the railway works wouldn't like. Maybe the Railway Agency must start taking on other glasses, seeing some new opportunities, thinking about new things both in Norway and when it comes to picking up people from other countries who have good skills in building rail and operating rail, because we see that they are able to do it in Europe, we see that they are able to do it in the countries around us. So maybe there's something the Railway Agency needs to get better at, that's to use resources and see other opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e962	Ingerd Schou has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e965	If we wanted something offensive for new and more and double tracks and a good infrastructure, we must be willing to spend more money, but also modernise the organisation. It's about maintenance funds, it's about public-private financing, and it's about modern organisations. And not least, it's about real-time information on the information system and a common train ticket. There's a lot of things. I thought I'd make a love statement – for the train. Despite the fact that the train does not take signals, does not keep agreements and stops in the forest of completely others, which it should not stop at, I have an incredible love for the train. That is what this debate also shows. We want a lot with the train. And even though the train is as unfaithful as it sometimes is, I have challenged two commuters, one who is plus 60, and one who is now over 80 years, and who has written a tribute song to the NSB, from 1989 – which I thought the president would have to attach to the protocol – which is called “Sheet from a commuter’s diary – or daily life on the Eastern Line”, with the melody “A Little Neighbor From Above”.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e973	The President accepts all the expressions of love that may come!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e976	I have noted with interest some quotations from the debate today. The Bondevik II parties left themselves a railway on the road to improvement, it was said, and the Minister for Transport has to apologize for stopping the process of conversion. I think it's kind of cute with a story description like that. 250 professionals took the final package before the red-greens took over, 250 professionals we now needed hurt. And then at least it should be the Minister for Transport at that time who is going to apologize, and not the one who is sitting. A railway and a transport sector on sparebluss were the heirs of Skogsholm & Co. Then the representative comes to Hareide and says that little happened in the budgets for 2006, 2007, 2008, etc. But this government overfilled the NTP that had been adopted, an NTP that the Bondevik II parties presented, and which, during the treatment in the Storting, was ploughed up some twenty billion of the red-greens along with the Advance Party. It was then called ‘air billions’. ‘Air billions’ was the expression used for the extra addition. Times clearly change. The last few days' ash clouds have set a different agenda. Maybe we'll get very good at it. Very well of that I would say that most of us have. And I'm just impressed by how the railway sector has dealt with the increased traffic that has been. But although I think they've handled it well, we need to do more, because some of us have a fairly long way and have little opportunity to travel by train, as the situation is. That is why we need a good NTP, which we have presented, which we have adopted, and which ensures that we will have a well-functioning rail and road sector in the future as well. We're going to spend NOK 322 billion until 2019. It's important. We're going to do that. And then we want a different situation than what we had when we took over in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e987	The volcanic emissions from Iceland remind us that it's nature that controls, it's not us. That's why it's very important to take the climate issue seriously, and that's why it's very good that there's almost a gathering of big business behind a climate deal. Then we get to work on getting important steps to implement it. At least I'm sure the important thing here is that we make sure to bet on the train, because in Spain they say that the train will stand for 20 pst. the reduction in relation to their climate target. In Sweden, the 2 million tonnes are the target for reduction by rail. So here it's a great potential. We don't have any good numbers in Norway on this, but we have to keep working on that. I can't give up on the Progress Party: the 2004 budget minus 2 billion, the 2005 budget minus 1.9 billion, the 2006 budget minus 2.1 billion, the 2007 budget minus 1.9 billion and the 2008 budget minus 2 billion. There are 10 billion dollars in cuts, about the last few years. And now it's like trains have become important. At the time I was now referring to the budget, the train was a socialist project that was a danger to private cars. Now it's obvious that it's not like that anymore, because now a cut has less on trains than ever, and in 2010 cut one not at all. So now it's certainly not such a dangerous socialist project anymore, although it's very good for the community. Let me also tempt former state councillor Schou, who has now come to love the train. I had hoped that one had love for the train when one put in government, not only when one was out of government. I hope she never comes to government again, but it's at least important to have love when one is there. I have understood at the Railway Agency and at the Railway Director that there is now a new deal. One feels like one has a government that supports the Railway Agency. A bright setting – I think there were four–five job advertisements from the Railway Agency I saw in the Evening Post this weekend. A project leader for the high-speed train should be added. What happened under Schou was that a cut 250 settings, while this government is adding with settings. That's to show love to the railway when an actual plus with settings is on. I am also very pleased with the signals I get from the Railway Agency that they are now going to use more international competence. I have understood it so that one should have closer cooperation with the Railway Union and connect people from the Railway Union in the work on trains in Norway. I think it's moving towards a train revolution. It probably takes a little longer than I thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1006	The events of the last few days show how vulnerable we are as a nation, and that it is incredibly important that trains are a good alternative that it is important for us to have. Now I'm not going to put myself in the Committee's expressions of love and who's going to have love for who here. But I think I have to say that from the South it is at least at one point a very rusty love for this government. Then I intend to draw up the name of former representative of Great Britain Rolf Terje Klungland in connection with the night and offer to Kristiansand. The night train offer from Kristiansand to Oslo has not arrived. There have been many discussions about this matter here in Stortinget. I mean, budget-inner. S. In 2007–08, it was decided that a night wagon service would be provided. We haven't seen that spin off. We have not seen a night and night offer for Southerners that can be used. Delicious Kristiansand is located between Stavanger and Oslo. If you're going to use the night offer today, you're going to have to set up on the platform at 0 p.m. 01.30. You lose so much of the night that you can't use it as a real alternative to being in here at work and being operational. That means we have to get back the offer with a wagon that can stand at the station, so that the southerners can lie down, the train comes, connects, and continues. It was an ingenious scheme, which allowed more people to use the night and night services as a real alternative. In a reply to Rolf Terje Klungland, the former Council of State, Navarsete, said that only the Stortinge could cancel a decision. And the decision is firm, it was granted money for it, but on Twitter today it has been requested quite duly where it was made by the coach service that we were going to get in South Africa. I hope that the Council of State will now address this matter again, get the wagons that are needed to get this in place, so that it becomes a real offer. Otherwise, you have to come to the Stortinge to cancel the decision that the Stortinge has actually taken. We're waiting with excitement to get this night and offer in place, which means that the southern countries can also use this train offer and be operational with all the knowledge they have, when they come in here to Oslo to influence and lobby to get more cases in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1021	The representative Hoksrud called me here instead. I can assure the representative that he will also be heard outside the storeroom. If the Progress Party had its will, we would not have had the debate we have today. If the Progress Party had got its way with a cut of DKK 10 billion in orbit over a five-year period, we would not have rail tracks on which the trains could go. If the Advance Party had got its will in terms of cuts in government purchases, we would not have trains either. I think that if the Progress Party had got its way, drivers who are right now, in Norway's worst traffic chaos, in a car queue somewhere, would hardly send a friendly thought to Bård Hoksrud. I think Hoksrud should be happy that it didn't go this way. So Hareide asked for answers as to why so little had happened in the state budgets in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Well, if Hareide thinks that an increase of NOK 1 billion from 2006 to 2007 is small, I do not share that view. From 2008 to 2009 there was an increase of 1.3 billion, from 2009 to 2010 there was an increase of 1.3 billion. So in total, the 2010 budget spends NOK 4 billion more than Bondevik’s 2006 proposals. If it's small, then we're very disagreeable about what's a small addition. In addition, the red-green majority has tripled the investment in rail from DKK 1.3 billion to NOK 3.9 billion. I want to use an example: a month ago, the committee leader criticized the government for training the pace of Lysaker-Sandvika. The fact was, and is, that in its 2006 draft budget, the Bondevik government had proposed a zero-zero-kronar allocation to Lysaker-Sandvika. Progress increased to 270 million. kr. So this was the same year that Hareide was the Environmental Council and co-responsible for the cut. The red-green government turned this around, got the project back on the rails again, and now it can be opened until next year. The focus must be that we should learn from what has happened in winter. I am pleased to see that both the NSB and the train companies are clear about this. We need to have close cooperation between the Railway Agency, the train companies and the bus companies to avert the same situation until next year. So this government is going to deliver in terms of the most ambitious NTP ever, which means a massive investment on the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1036	For the debt of the order, first and foremost, to the 2005 points. Let's be glad that the point game was good in 2005, but what was the dilemma was that it wasn't done maintenance. Hence, the punctuality was good as far as he went. Today, extensive maintenance is associated with track disruption. Hence, for a period of time there is a lack of punctuality. Then it'll be better. When it comes to organisation: I think that in today's situation with the challenges that the railway system now has, it's literally, a derailment to ask them to spend time on just that. It's not just about money, it's someone who says. I agree with that. I am busy getting the most out of the money they have at any time from the railway works, the NSB and others. It's also taken up in the governance dialogue, letters of formal notice, etc., but I think we have to assume that if we want to enforce the maintenance, it will mean re-priorities. If we want to support maintenance, we also need to strengthen the maintenance of money. In this calculation, there will also be gains, for example: the current costs for both individuals and businesses resulting from the lack of maintenance. That's how it's turned out to be. There's the level of the permissions that's important there. So it's about doing for me to emphasize that, for example. on the largest railway project in the national transport plan, namely Oslo-Ski, we need to keep the level so that we have progress in the development process all the time. For a well-functioning railway network, we depend on both hams and materials, and on professionals and necessary means. $92 billion - it's a lift. It will provide a much better railway in Norway. This will also mean that commuters get a better everyday life than they have experienced during this winter. I have to say that I have adhered to excellent leaders in the NSB and in the Railway Agency through this very special situation. I have met footmen who day in and day out are on both at the railway station and in the NSB, and who have not known what they met the next day. [[The President clubs.]] Now there's light in the tunnel!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1049	Now the light is turned off on the speaker's chair, and that means that speaking time is out!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1052	The representative Bjørnflaten takes up the double-track Lysaker-Sandvika. I think it's a superb and good example of why we need a reorganization. This is a stretch that we've been building in ten years. There are different governments that have to take responsibility for it. The railway company itself says that if they had built this section in five years, we as a society had saved NOK 2 billion. My challenge to the representative Bjørnflaten is that when she takes Lysaker-Sandvika as an example, she sees the need for a reorganisation of the railway system, so that they can precisely organise and develop the projects in an optimal way, so that we save money? So the example of the Bear Surface, we could have saved $2 billion! The Labour Party has its seat in government during this period. The same is true of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party now sees that we are content to bring about a renewal. We've done it with Avinor. We have a good example to show. This debate has been marked by, among other things, surrender from the opposition, according to the government party. Then I thought it interesting that the party SV made good proposals today early on about just increasing investments and funds for maintenance. Then my question to the Center Party and the Labour Party is: is it overdue when SV comes with it, or is it just overdue when it's the opposition that comes with this? I would like to give an enronment to SV because they see that there is a need here. It's a real maintenance need that we have to take seriously. I understand that Hallgeir H. Langeland is impatient. After he had been in government for nearly five years, he was in the pulpit instead and boasted that they have received new job advertisements at the Railway Station. There is not much to reference. We need a completely different skepticism. What worries me after this debate here today is that there is too little action in relation to the real need that is on the railways. We may say that more people have to take responsibility for what has happened, but we need more to maintain and invest more in the railways. Elisabeth Enger's word has been taken up several times in this room. I just want to end by saying that there's one thing that's been too little talk about, and that's the Oslo Tunnel. That's the big bottleneck. That is why I would particularly like to draw attention to the proposal for a future Oslo tunnel that is in place. This is perhaps the most important single proposal in the matter we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1067	What's striking in this debate is that the position obviously does not have future solutions on how to get on another track in terms of rail. So while the opposition has promoted a number of different proposals, including organisational ones, there is no great wealth of ideas. I guess that's something that characterizes the government in a lot of ways. But after listening to this debate, I have to say that what strikes me most of all is that if it is right that the speakers of the position parties now claim that it is the 2005 and 2006 transition that is the cause of the problems now, it is a serious question of what former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete knew and had been investigated when she stopped a process of conversion that was well under way. She stopped a conversion process that was going to build another way of running the railway in Norway, and she did it in 14 days. And if five years later that's why there's not enough professionals, it's actually important that the Storting start looking at the decision-making basis for the red-green government's reversal of the process. Government work is governed, inter alia, by: by an investigation instruction. Then you also need to know about the consequences of stopping processes that are in progress. And if the excuse to the majority parties five years later is that there are not enough professionals because of the conversion process that was in that case, then it is Liv Signe Navarsette who has made a terrible – terrible – misassessment of how to stop a process without having a plan for her coming back. Earlier in the debate, someone tried to say that there was a bad transition, that was the worst change in history. But the truth is that it was never implemented, because the red-green government stopped it in the middle of the process. I have met some of the people who chose to leave the railway station to start themselves, to contribute to the new competition, to lift a new and better way of running the railway in one year after that process was stopped. And the clear message I got then was that they didn't get a job in this area. They were not given the opportunity to contribute. On the other hand, they had very difficult working relationships with the new projects and the new organisation that had started. The red-green government said no to the competence of many of these professionals, because they wanted to drive the skills in a different way and in their own direction. It is probably an example that the private allergy to the Government has led to indecision and wrong decisions. From this point of view, I think it is important that Stortinget looks into the basis of Liv Signe Navarsete's decision to stop the transition, because that seems to be the reason – from the positioning parties themselves – that the situation we now have is so serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1080	It was not a shock to anyone that this debate was largely about the distribution of debts. I think most people still agree that the government is not entirely without influence on Norwegian transport policy. So when you look at how governments have been compounded since 1945, there have been eight bourgeois government formations, and they have ruled for a total of 19 years over a period of 65 years. So the Labour Party has been in power for 46 of the 65 years. Well, at least that's the math. What's also agreed in this room is that trains are good. I also think the consensus goes quite far in terms of the following fact, namely that trains are expensive. So we're talking about a two-digit billion to improve an already existing route, the one between Oslo and Ski, which is 2 miles away. In addition, the railway is connected in such a way that it needs large operating grants every year. Motorway construction is something you can do for less than NOK 1 billion per person. miles, and car traffic generates revenue of the state of 50 billion DKK per year. years. So we could build 10 to 20 miles by motorway for the same amount as the Oslo-Ski railway project costs. So now we still support the Oslo-Ski project, not least because it is one of the assumptions of Oslo-Paktic 3, which provides the solutions that will solve the transport challenges that lie throughout the Oslo region. Oslo Package 3 has a good balance between road and public transport, so it's funded. The best advice we can give to the Government, I think, is not to see the collective means of transport and other means of transport very isolated and individually, but to take an overall assessment of the overall situation of transport in the Oslo region and build on Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1089	I think the representative Erna Solberg gave us an excellent background for understanding why we've ended up where we are – in the chaos on the railway. The council says it's getting worse before it gets better. I sincerely hope that then buses will be installed so that people can get between A and B in the period this is going to take place – otherwise it probably makes sense. The railway manager says it's worse than we thought. Yes, but if it's worse than we thought, we have to take some grip then. Because what's a little problematic for us politicians is that we think it's better than it is, because we're assigning money to something that's said to get right, and then we don't get feedback from those who are going to do the job, about how miserable it really is. I got a great understanding of the driver on the train from Trondheim to Oslo yesterday when we were delayed one hour. I had a chat with him at Hamar, and he says yes, you understand there's so much telehiv here so I can't drive for more than 60 km/h. Yes, but someone must know in advance! And there's no sense in setting up a train table that says you're going to be in Oslo at 8 p.m. 10:30, when you can't be there until 10:30. 12:30. We as passengers also need to know. So it has something to do with the flow of information. It has something to care about the passengers. Passengers must be in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1101	It's interesting finally to be in a social debate with Peter N. Myhre and hear praise and boast of Oslopak 3. There's a movement effort and a way to do things like representatives of the Progress Party in the last four years have spent a lot of time taking a distance from, with which they've been a little satisfied, and with which they would wish Myhre hadn't implemented. I don't know if we'll get back to that. But I agree that here there is a good balance between road and track, which the Progress Party did not want in the previous period. They then proposed, as the Bjørnface correctly said, to cut both operating subsidies and investments into the railway. It is also interesting that the representative Hareide chooses not to answer the Bjørnface's questions. Because it would have helped very little with a reorganisation if the money was not in place. How would you have saved $2 billion if you didn't even want to contribute money to prioritize the expansion of Lysaker-Sandvika? In fact, sometimes you have to spend money to save money. That's exactly what the red-green government is betting on. You have to build longer and bigger to do things cheaper. It is quite clear that the Bondevik II administration and Hareide had not understood it. That's why the article from Erna Solberg is a little bit hard to understand. She talked about people who wanted to start on their own – working privately for the Railway Agency. Yes, it is possible that someone wanted to. But what project funding would they have worked for, when you haven't chosen to give priority to money? Because whether it is private or public that are to carry out the tasks, those who work there are to be paid. So that reasoning is not at all related. So now it's like this government that's been thinking new. We're the ones who for the first time organize a railway project in a different way. Oslo-Ski comes at its own budget line. It's a project for $12 billion. It opens up to think about the form of the contract. The kind of thing didn't happen when the Right sat in government. I am aware that there are ideas that were also on the table at that time. So here you've waited a long time to think about new things. It's the classic thing: you don't choose to do things when you actually have the opportunity and you're in position, and then you complain about everything that's not done when you're in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1114	The representative Hareide is supposed to save the Norwegian railway. The way he would do it earlier in winter, was to take money away from the road. That's what the representative Hareide said. Then there was a race. Then the representative Hareide would also take money away to provide more for racial protection. He was then to take money from road construction in the central east, in central strata. Last week, the Committee on Transport and Communications was on a committee mission in Eastfold and Akershus – at least relatively central. Then there was no way we were going to get ahead of E18 development and road development in the Central East. So the representative Hareide has used the money that he now wants to spend several times. The trustworthiness of Hareide is not present in all the money he has around, and will spend on different things. So it's like we're three and a half months into the period of the NTP that was adopted in June last year. We have a project in the Oslo area. It's going to be $2 billion. The gardermoban standard is requested in the Oslo area. You're doing that with Project Oslo, so it's signed out. There is a design of double tracks Oslo-Ski. It has to be built, and maybe even something faster than what's supposed to be. It's a project of your own. Funding has been ensured. That's how you could still have that. Other projects come on a continuous basis in the National Transport Plan, and I would like to remind you that we are three and a half months into the period. In the case of double tracks between Halden, Skien and Lillehammer, on which I was in my first post, there are no completed plans for that today. Those plans have to be put in place. We have to make time when we can get that double track in place. I don't think it's just the representative of Schou who thinks 30 years is a long time. The Minister of Transport has recently said today that we want a review of the state of the railways, although it is only a year since we adopted the National Transport Plan. Then we get back to what the warned review will have to say. But there are things that indicate that things can be done faster, and that's something that we have to get back to. With stable framework conditions, with predictable appropriations in the coming years, we will get more railway development faster. But then the relationship between politicians and the railway must be a long and loving marriage, not a short-term relationship that ends in breaking, or that as politicians we are cheating or finding new partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1129	There's been a lot of history here today. And since the Bergensbanen was mentioned for a while back, I can't humiliate myself, because then actually left with a majority on the Stortinget. Then we would have made a slightly better choice, there would have been speed in matters. I am disappointed that there may not be any concrete decisions here today after this long, intense debate. I would again draw attention to the distributed proposals of the Left. It is concrete, it is forward-looking, and the Railway Agency is given a clear marshalling ground on what they should prioritise, namely the main artery. Then I agree with the committee leader, Knut Arild Hareide, that we must have a new Oslo tunnel. A long process is not necessary to address the need. As I also said in my post, the need is there. Just think of the population growth in Oslo and Akershus! Think of the vulnerability by having one tunnel, when there are double tracks on all sides! So why spend so long figuring out the need? The Council of States must almost answer that question. So to Gorm Kjernli, who spoke about the double track Oslo–Ski, which is secured funding and is on a separate post on the state budget. Is it that the money is set off, that you're committed? Is that not the case that it should also follow regular government budgets? Is it the case that the money is there and you commit, and whatever happens, is the money for the double track Oslo–Ski in place? We almost have to get an answer to that, because I'm getting pretty tired of hearing about this track, when we've only just gotten money to a planning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1143	Let me just say a few words about Oslo-Christiansand, since it was mentioned. What was the actual situation, was that a proposal was made, but one had not put in the funds that are most likely to realise this proposal. If I were to allow myself a little untimely comment in addition, it was okay if this was a stretch where it went three years before this was requested – without having to pay too much attention to it. But anyway, that's the explanation. I just have to say from my side that there are other proposals that have been given higher priority. To Lysaker – Sandvika: Is it the organisation that is the point of considering these 2 billion dollars? That's my hareide. I'm going to say that what's important is, in fact, that it would have been time for a coherent expansion. Then the level of the permissions is crucial. Then there's a difference of $4.4 billion in annual budget appropriations for the railways and $9 billion for the railways. To Oslo-Ski: It's on its own. It has to be followed up. It is crucial to ensure progress, but it is not possible here to set all the funds at different costs until you have actually completed a planning process. So Erna Solberg raises a very important question: what happened in this reorganisation? Let me stress that there are composite reasons why we are where we are today when it applies to Norwegian railway. One moment is your professional competence. Another is the level of your licenses, of course. There may be other reasons. But when it comes to the reorganisation that happened, it is actually that in the 2006 state budget, Bondevik II announced that it was part of this reorganisation that it was difficult to carry out, because they saw that they actually needed some of the professional competence that they were in the process of organizing away. There will always be a question of whether to do work within your own company, or whether to bet on the consulting industry. I mean to have registered strong criticism from Stortinget, because sometimes it is used at different levels for many consultants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1154	When Borghild Tenden spoke, I suddenly heard horn music in my heart, but it also continued when the Council of State was on, so I realized that the sound came from outside. It's a big problem for this government that it has no vision, no will or any grip on such a big challenge as this. I think it's a huge problem. I believe that the government should think about when the Left makes proposals and it is easier to get support from the Progress Party for rail action than it is to get support from the government parties. I have listened to this debate, and what strikes me is that there are politicians who use great creativity in an attempt to take others for things they have done, and then there are politicians who use great creativity to suggest what should be done for the future. My problem is that the government parties largely exercise creativity in the debate – on the first part and not on the second. What was the Left's initiative in this Chamber was a document 8 with constructive proposals for what to do. It was actually meant to be a handshake to the government, because we're from a party that's been working a lot on the railroad for a long time. I have to say that I, as an Oslo citizen, live 4.6 metres from the railway line, am also a little frightened when we see the railway station's eagerness for the small projects, such as: The Oslo Tunnel. This is probably many, many decades ahead. What I think is quite frightening is that we don't have a railway station that is more offensive, and that has some visions of how railway traffic should be. But this reflects in and of itself the Government. Finally, as a member of the Control Committee, I agree with the comments made today by Mrs Solberg. I believe that what has emerged leaves so many questions at least that we should consider taking an initiative in that context in order to clarify what has really happened, and how we should manage to use it in order to achieve good processes in the future. Because it is clear that there are some structures here that also need to change – money is important, but there are also some structures and some cultures that need to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1167	The Progress Party wishes to support the distributed proposals of the Left. It is quite right, as has been said from this pulpit, that there are so many needs and so many projects that some things actually have to be supported, not least given where the need to build up the railways is greatest. We challenge the Government to follow the Advance Party in this matter. To be brief, it is unproblematic for us to support an action plan, since in our proposals for NTP and our budget proposals we have actually fully financed such a type of path right up to Halden. There has been much mention of credibility in this debate, and I would think that there are many parties that have their sins related to the past. It is therefore important to consider what are the future needs and challenges. I mentioned earlier that we want OPS funding, we want project financing, we want debt financing, and not least we want to get away from today's cash financing over the annual budgets. In this way it is interesting to see what the Arbeiderpartiet Matz Sandman said on TV three to four days ago. He just wanted these funding models to bring up the intensity of expanding both the track and the road. The same thing said earlier County Sigbjørn Johnsen, but that was when he was County. At the same moment he took the government offices, it was no longer the politician Sigbjørn Johnsen who had an opinion, it was the bureaucracy. And that's sin and shame, and that might be a significant reason why we're there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1178	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1181	In the case of double tracks on the intercity triangle Skien–Halden–Lillehammer, the representative Gorm Kjernli said that there are no plans, so here we have a job to do. Whether or not the representative Gorm Kjernli would think of standing on his head and going out of this hall and whatever Gorm Kjernli does without making sure that there is more money, you'll still spend 20 years before there are double tracks on the Westfold course. It is the plans, even with the so-called historic effort of this government. The challenge is that the need is enormously much greater than what we are discussing today. We're discussing whether this is good or not. But the challenge is that, for many decades, we'll still have a bad network if there's no more money. And that's why the Progress Party has proposed to grant NOK 6.5 billion more for 2010 and NOK 60 billion more for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1188	I'm forced to comment on the serious claims that Gorm Kernli makes. First of all, I just have to say that the claims he makes are directly wrong. What I've said is that we need a railway deal. Therefore, I have said that we must be willing to add all the cards to the table to see what we might get into such a settlement. I have not said that I want to cut my way, but I have said that if the government wants to, I am willing to put all the cards on the table to see what we can get. But I haven't concluded, and so the claims that Gorm Kjernli makes are directly false. Then he also records, and there are several workers' party representatives who have recorded, my play on racial protection. What I have done there is to comment on what the government has delivered in relation to what the government has promised. The government has promised $1 billion, and they have delivered 850 million. kr. And it's clearly so hairy that there are several representatives who react when the opposition goes out and comments that the government doesn't think it's up to you. So for the toll project E18. Yes, I think it would be very unwise if we built the road in Eastfold seaway, and then stopped. I understand that the representative of Gorm Kjernli will also be very unwise. But the tool of the Christian People's Party is tolls, and the Christian People's Party is one of those parties that dares to say that tolls are an instrument we are willing to use. But I also thought it interesting to see this in conjunction with the situation of the railway. One of the challenges for the railways is that all modes of transport in Norway can raise capital outside the state budget, except for the railways. All the funds that go to the Norwegian railway must enter the State budget. That is why the Christian People's Party has given priority to transportation. When we had a national transport plan up to treatment one year ago, the Christian People's Party proposed NOK 1.5 billion more to transport every year. When we had the state budget for 2010 up to treatment, we increased the rail budget by 150 million. kr. I would like to stress that there were representatives from the Labour Party at the time who highlighted the Christian People's Party as the only opposition party that showed a wholehearted, responsible budgetary policy, and gave us credit, among other things. For the savings we made, they said they were realistic. Despite that, we were one of the parties that managed to lift up transportation, and there is a need for both road and, not least, rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1199	With reference to the representative Skei Grande's mention of this music corps that marched past, at least I made the reflection that there is at least one train going. Then it was Truls Wickholm who claims that the Progress Party is against Oslopackak 3. It must be a misunderstanding. The Progress Party is not against Oslopackak 3. We were against the way the majority in Stortinget wanted to finance Oslopackak 3 on, but this is history. The Oslo Package 3 decisions are taken. It's almost two years since the new toll system was introduced in Oslo. Since then, almost $4 billion has been charged in tolls, so now it's only for the government to start and implement Oslopackak 3. It must then be carried forward, and progress in the plans must be made with regard to the Oslo-Ski project. At least it is claimed with strength from the government parties and from the government. Treating a large, comprehensive and complex regulatory plan in Norwegian municipalities takes one to two years. It's not because of sommel in municipal government, but it's because we have a planning and building law that's so complicated that that's the time you have to count on. On 22 March, I was in a meeting with representatives of several actors in this project and was informed that no regulatory proposals had yet been submitted from the Railway Agency to the relevant municipalities. These shall be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2011 in accordance with the plan of progress. There is so much one year left, and the regulatory proposals are still – at least on 22 March – not submitted for consideration. Here the government has a challenge. Now it's about getting up speed and really showing progress in the Oslo-Ski project, not just saying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1208	Now when we heard the Council of State, we really got to see what it's like for the Storting to have a majority government. The decision on sleeping car offers on the Sørlandsbanen is actually made here in Stortinget. I expect it to work – including by a majority government – to implement the decisions that have actually been taken. When the Council of State stands here and says that it has been three years and no one has asked for this night car offer, I want to ask her to have a little conversation with the previous Council of State, which was repeatedly challenged, precisely because we have not followed up on the decision that Stortinget itself has taken, and that the Government has to follow up and realise. The appropriations entered in the budget of 3 million. kr, it was the government parties themselves as cost-calculated and entered. If you think that there is too little money, a majority government has every opportunity to bring the remaining amount to follow the decision of the Storting, not just hope that it will pass. There has been a great debate in the South lately that the Government has the South in its blind zone. I think that the Council's response to me today on the Kristiansand's night wagon offer illustrates this with all clarity. I end by saying that I expect that it will work to realize the decision of the Storting, that when we repeatedly, countless times, it will demand the offer, that it will soon come into place, so that the decision of the Storting will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1222	I understand that talking about tolls now that the national meeting is near. But my statements on Oslopackak 3 do not depend on any misunderstanding. They depend on four years of discussion with Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik and Per Sandberg, who in repeated debates have distanced themselves from what is happening in Oslo. When toll financing is a key element of the package and e.g. should be able to take good action such as the operation of the collective system, it must be said that it is relatively central. It is nice to hear Myhre say that he is against the funding when he himself has sent the application for toll financing to the Council of State. But this is a railway debate, and I also hope Myhre will now do what he can to influence his colleagues in the town hall so that the regulation plan does not take one to two years. For me, there's a pretty significant difference in time if it takes one or two years. I hope that the Progress Party in the City Hall will put pressure on them to implement this plan as quickly as possible, and that it will then be one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1231	I thought one was going to discuss the recurring problems on the railway network and reinforced efforts to resolve the train crisis in the East. Therefore, I was somewhat surprised when the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, took this opportunity to pick up the trailer offer to Southern Sweden. I believe there is a siding in this debate. But when that is said, I agree with the reality of the representative from Eriksen's point of view, that a decision on night-car services to South Africa should certainly be followed up by the Government. Therefore, of course, I also hope that it will be a further step in that direction. But I think maybe you should use a slightly different opportunity to take it up, but in reality we agree on that. I also fully agree with the representatives who have said that this is about moving forward in the debate. In this way, I would like to commend the representative Myraune from the Right, who, unlike the other representatives from the opposition, has shown a great deal of humility towards what has happened in the past. Here it's clear that we've all failed. But when said, there is little reason to criticize today's government, neither for the rate of allocation nor for the will to change. I look forward to a railway that gets better day by day, where we spend more resources, where we require even more efficiency, where we make demands, and where we get a proper review of the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1240	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1243	It was Knut Arild Hareide's response to Gorm Kjernli that made me take the word, and I almost feel that there is a need to ask for clarification from Knut Arild Hareides' side. Based on what he says, he may have been misquoted a certain number of times in the media. On the 9th of March, Hareide says that he believes that it should be appropriate to take money from the road and transfer it to the path to resolve the crisis we are facing. A few days later, Hareide is north, in Tromsø, and then he proposes a billion bet on the E6 that has not been suggested before. A few days after that, Hareide believes that more money should be spent on racial protection. In a debate in P4 where I met him myself, I challenged him on where he was going to pick up this money, and then he said he would pick up the money from more central strokes. Last week the committee was travelling in Eastfold and Akershus, and then Hareide was just going to spend more money on roads in central struts – so here I feel that there is a need for clarification from the Christian People's Party. In terms of increases in railway investment, as the Christian People's Party proposed this year, I would say that half is financed by proposing an increase in profits. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1252	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1255	It was only for the representative Freddy de Ruiter, who thought it was premature for me to address night and night offers in this debate: I just want to stress that this is about the presentation of the Council of State, which needs to be seen in a much broader context than just in the context of the challenge we have had in the East in terms of trains. Unfortunately, when you have a majority government that does not follow up on a decision, you have to use the opportunities you have to keep this warm in the Stortinget, so that the train offer that I hope for – and that I understand that the representative Freddy de Ruiter is also behind – comes into place. Because the representative Rolf Terje Klungland was active in this area, I have thought that in his spirit and on behalf of the southerners we will be passing on to the decision of the Storting, and we will get this offer in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1262	Since the representative Bjørnflaten needs clarification, I would like to do so. The Christian People's Party has not said that we want to cut the roadways, but we think that in that situation the railway is now, we have taken the initiative of a broad national settlement. We have invited the government party to meet us, because we think there is a need for a national railway lift. We've said that in that case we're willing to put all the cards on the table. Unfortunately, this does not indicate that the Government is interested in taking part in raising the railway beyond what NTP says, and I regret that. But we in the Christian People's Party are clear if the Government changes its mind. If they are willing to follow what SV has proposed today to increase the railways' promises, then the Christian People's Party is ready to do so, and then we are also ready to look at the funding of it. When it comes to the roadways, the Christian People's Party is willing to use tolls, which we think are a good tool for road travel. Then I will tell the representative of the Bjørnflaten when it applies to E6 in Northern Norway that we have a special challenge. In fact, North Norway can easily end up in the backyard in a transport policy perspective. We cannot use toll projects to the extent that we can do south, because the basis is not good enough. We also know that North Norway does not get its share when it comes to railways. That's why, for my part, I'm worried that North Norway is going to have a smaller share of those promises than they're going to have. I know that I share that concern with the Regional Road Manager of North Norway, because we have had a development where the road projects in South Norway have taken their part. So to racial protection: the Christian People's Party proposed, in the same way as the Government, 850 million. kr for breed protection in 2010. The Christian People's Party also promised 150 million. kr for road maintenance – an extra licence that we thought was important because some of the same roads where there is a need for racial protection also have a significant maintenance need. We were busy complying with the obligation of NOK 1 billion for racial protection, which should be a total promise. I think it's important that we follow up on what we promised in the NTP in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1273	I note that the level of ambition of the representative Hareide and others from the opposition only rises and rises further away from the time they come from the government offices – then an interpreter gets it like a will. To the representative Eriksen: we fully agree on the realities. I did not say it was premature, but I thought it might be a wrong debate to address it. I don't want to use such a strong word as ‘untimely’, but I would probably have taken this up in a different context. Having said that, I would like to say that we have several opportunities to discuss the train offer nationally – both the night and the train offer in general. It is clear that what is as important for the South as the night train from Kristiansand, of course, is a long-term connection between the South and the Westfold Railway. That will mean an enormous amount for the Oslo–Stavanger route, but we will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1282	I will take it upon myself to check out the correspondence that has been available for the night and in the South. Then I have to say on behalf of the Government that the South is certainly not a blind zone when it comes to transportation – on the contrary. It shows the exposure both to the E18, to the Lister package and to the four-year passover agreement to the Kristiansand area. Then I understand those who are asking for a temporal attachment of the intercity triangle to Lillehammer, Skien and Halden. I have ambitions to get a time fixing there in place in the roll in 2013. Train on route – yes, it is possible to chat with it. But it's actually the way I visited the train traffic control centre in Oslo last week, and then all trains were on the way. This could mean that we are now in a better phase when the snow and the cold have retreated. This does not mean that we are leaning back with a view to putting in place the measures that are announced. Think of what that means for our roads and for the visibility there that we get to double the capacity, for example. in the case of goods on the track for the next 10 years. So I'm recording that this is a strong commitment, which it's good to carry on with it, both when it comes to local supplies that are not in place for now, and big deals that apply to the future. Then I have to remind you that there has to be consistency between plans and follow-up. That's exactly what the racial protection plan is an example of. It was planes equivalent to 850 million. kr. That's what they can use this year. The more important it is that we are all concerned here with ensuring the necessary plans to keep the progress of the projects that we are going to start. Then I have registered that someone has spent some time giving some good words to all those who today make a formidable effort, both in the railway works and in the various train companies. That's what I think is important. It is so good to hear it – and it is so good to pass it on. And that's absolutely necessary, because it's also so that we have to commit ourselves to retaining those who are currently working in this sector, and to strengthen the educational capacity, just to secure the common goal that I perceive we have here, that the railway is future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1297	Then most of the train sections were to be thoroughly debated. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2866]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1307	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1314	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Right Proposal No. 3, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the vote, while the proposals No. 3 and 4 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1384	It is then voted on under proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1411	It is then voted on II under proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1512	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1522	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1532	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1555	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Gorm Kjernli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Mr Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 4, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 is included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 5 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1592	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide an action plan for the development of continuous double tracks throughout the InterCity triangle with a view to full realisation through public-private cooperation and project funding by 2020’.» [[OPS]] The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1609	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that lifetimes of up to 50 years are used in the calculation of the socio-economic benefits of infrastructure investment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1624	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the largest cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency and the NSB. The government is asking the government to present its own case on this matter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1654	Alternatively, between the II-IVs of the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:54 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1679	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-20.ana.ud1350e1700	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
