ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e141	The representative, Frank Bakke Jensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e144	On behalf of the representatives Svein Flätten, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Bjørn Lødemel and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal on a strategy for the Norwegian mining industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e149	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e161	Foreign policy, too, is the focus of attention: new settlements in East Jerusalem, military offensive in South Afghanistan, earthquakes in Haiti and Chile, disarmament negotiations between the United States and Russia, cooperation meetings in the Arctic, a forthcoming EU summit; the list that fills the foreign policy agenda will be slightly long. But over the individual issues, at different times, there are relationships or events that define the gravity of foreign policy. In the decade we leave, the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001 appears as such. Challenges related to the national security of countries have dominated the outlook and behaviour of foreign and security policy during this decade. This will last as we go into a new decade. At the same time, new, heavy forces for change are emerging, which also have a decisive influence on foreign policy. Increasingly, we have changed living conditions and the struggle for resources as a result of climate change, the effects of the global economic crisis and the emergence of what we have so far called major developing countries as heavy and central actors in an increasingly globalised world economy. Over the last decade, we have seen how the financial crisis hit the real economy. It turned out to be global and had ring-effects in all corners of the world, with gradual consequences for all policy areas. Now, one year later, we see that this is still playing out. Although there are tangible signs that the world economy is resuming, we can see that the world is not going to be what it was. The financial crisis did not come alone either. In 2008, strong increases in global food prices caused major problems for the world's poor. The world needs concerted international efforts to increase the production of food — which is cheap enough — in the coming years. The financial crisis does not kill or harm as the attacks of 11 September 2001. The effects are more long-term, more profound, and they will be able to affect several countries, more people and challenge countries far beyond the experience of exposed physical security. The effects of the financial crisis illustrate what a wise man once said: big changes are coming sneaking on cat pots. Today, we can see that the effects of the financial crisis will be crucial for foreign and security policy in this decade. It also means that the context, the framework for dealing with all issues of foreign policy, will be changing. This will be the focus of my presentation today, which will not be a directory of all the individual matters. We have had thorough debates in this Chamber on Afghanistan, the North Region and human rights interpellations, and twice a year I have reports on developments in Europe – therefore, starting from the financial crisis. History gives us many lessons that economic crises are the source of upheaval, war and conflict. The deep crisis in the interwar period with its dramatic consequences is perhaps the most eloquent example. On the other hand, crises can also force necessary uprisings and pathways to rise. History has shown that lessons learned from crises can lead countries to take forward-looking measures to combat new crises. I'm thinking about how the Bretton Woods construction work was just aimed at preventing the 1930s' experience being repeated, or how the European Communities were built, based on the experience of the First and Second World Wars. So it's less the crisis itself than the way we're dealing with it, which is crucial. Behind our own time spectacular bankruptcies from Wall Street to Reykjavik lie deeper imbalances of several kinds. We see financial imbalances, between countries with large deficits and countries with high profits, where the United States particularly illustrates the first category and China the second. We see imbalances between poor and rich countries, we see imbalances between actual greenhouse gas emissions and the Earth's tolerance limit, we see political imbalances, between the increasingly global markets driven by deregulation and technological innovation, and the political power that remains largely linked to each country. International cooperation was crucial when it stormed in the autumn of 2008. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, gained new relevance, and the G20 cooperation – the forum in which finance ministers and governors from 19 of the world’s largest economies and the EU meet – gradually grew as the main body. But first-line defense came in the United States and other countries that were hit early, through massive measures the first days and weeks after Lehman Brothers went bankrupt on 15 September 2008, in order to secure the financial system and save socially important financial institutions. The G20 meeting in London in April 2009 meant that the heaviest countries coordinated their national policies and agreed on the scope and arrangements for international action. They also agreed to provide the IMF and other international financial institutions with new financial resources to assist particularly severely affected Member States. Behind, and in parallel with the outbreak of the most serious financial crisis since the mid-war, there is a constant shift in regional and global power and influence. New countries report through population growth, production, technology and emissions. They sign up to secure their own development, fight poverty, meet climate challenges, be heard, seen and respected: China, India, Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa and more. The clearer they are, the clearer we see that established international institutions – created with western dominance in a context after the Second World War – are weakened both in representativeness and legitimacy. Our impression is reinforced by a disparity between the weights of the international and economic change forces and the lack of weight in the political institutions that can do something with them. All of these threads weave a complex backstop for reforms of the international system. It is difficult enough to reach agreement among so many actors with quite a different starting point – political, economic, cultural and religious. And it is particularly challenging when, at the same time, a large number of governments are placed on national responsibility to deal with the effects of the financial crisis here and now, with the effects it has on individuals, families and communities experiencing pressures against jobs and well-being. Because even in the global age, all policies are local. In the initial phase of the crisis, we feared that banks would go bankrupt. Now we're afraid that states like the same fate. For many governments, the framework for policies has changed significantly in a very short time, partly dramatically reducing freedom of action. as a result of growing deficits and heavy debt burden, but also as a result of the disappearance of important sources of income such as tourism and transfers from foreign workers. In many countries, which are also close to Norway, there may be a huge gap between demands, expectations and standard of living on the one hand and political ability to act on the other. All of this can happen quickly. What we have seen as solid national and international political structures can be disrupted in a short time. Once again, we can learn lessons from the 1930s. Then the economic downturn made the road shorter to authoritarian regimes and the appointment of scapegoats. Paradoxically, while the world really needs stronger regional and international bodies, individual countries, in dealing with their own crisis, may be forced to look inwards and oppose, or lack, the ability to build up the international governing bodies needed. The ability and willingness to take responsibility over one’s own country and its own population can be greatly reduced. Norway is also affected by the financial crisis. Our exports are affected by falling demand in key markets. The government prioritizes the work of keeping order in the Norwegian economy. We have an active policy to ensure the well-being, work and modernisation of Norwegian society. The OECD’s recent assessment is that the Norwegian response to the crisis has been well-designed and has had much to do with the desired effect. Our own national challenge is to take good care of this starting point – not least by preventing the rise in unemployment. In our foreign policy, the main step must be to continue our work on an international legal order with strong and adaptable international organisations that can cope with imbalances and help steer us out of them. The main conclusions of St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, and its treatment by the Storting: Norway shall and will take international responsibility, and Norway is served with the strongest possible international legal order. I would like to reflect on some areas that illustrate the impact of the financial crisis on international policy and on Norwegian foreign policy. Firstly, international cooperation. One of the main reasons we have so far avoided the depression of the 1930s is that we met the financial crisis with close multilateral cooperation. The countries had an institutional device in place and were willing to use it. Coordinated rescue operations lacking parallel in history have long prevented a collapse in the world economy. By means of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) multilateral trading system, we have so far also been able to avoid turning in a protectionist direction. Global legislation has helped to prevent short-term protectionist actions, despite domestic policy pressures for such measures in many countries. According to the WTO, the world economy is as open today as before the crisis, but it is warned that countries will feel the pressure to protect themselves against the packages of other countries through increased trade barriers – hidden and indirect. It is essential for Norwegian interests that this does not happen. Open world trade is essential for Norwegian interests. The Government will therefore continue to work in all relevant forums to counter increased protectionism. The question is whether the global spirit of cooperation from 2008 and 2009 will be maintained, as the most acute phase of the financial crisis is now over. The recovery is uneven. There is disagreement as to when the action packages are to be phased out and mitigation measures are phased in. The crisis makes sparks visible between surplus countries and deficit countries. For some countries, the social and political broad side of the crisis is only now reporting — with the effects of record deficits and record debt at the same time. The deficits must be reduced and the debt must be served. Overall, there may be a great burden on domestic policy. And in our world it also has foreign policy implications for the current state or groups of states' spaces of action. According to the IMF, China’s and other Asian currencies are undervalued and contribute to keeping prices of their exports artificially low. This affects export industries both in industrialised countries and in developing countries. In the Doha Round of developments in the WTO, there is still a lack of progress with uncertainty as to whether the United States is ready to conclude the negotiations, while much depends on whether the United States and China can reach an agreement. It has been almost ten years since these negotiations began. Much has been achieved, but nothing is clear until everything is clear. It will be difficult to get on with other important agendas for world trade unless the Doha Round comes into port, for example. important issues such as agreements that place a high focus on the environment and promote trade in environmentally friendly goods and services — including climate technology — or agreements that safeguard the rights of workers and the right to decent work. Those agendas are waiting for them – until Doha comes to an end. Norway will do its part to prioritize these issues and contribute to the swift conclusion of the Doha Round, and we will stick to our positions in the negotiations. Secondly, parallel and interwoven in the effects of the financial crisis change multilateral cooperation. The importance of the G20 illustrates the global shift of power that has taken place in the direction of Asia, and in particular China. We are witnessing a significant change in the conditions of power in international politics. The power shift started before the financial crisis broke out, but has been accelerated and reinforced. We see new alliances, led by China, India, Brazil, Indonesia, South Africa and others, building new cooperation relations – including in areas such as climate, development, health and human rights. Reality is clear: we cannot expect international solutions on crucial issues without the emerging economies sitting at the table. We saw it during the climate negotiations in Copenhagen, we experienced it during the opening of negotiations in Bali and during the WTO Ministerial Meeting in the summer of 2008. It is unfailingly positive that the emerging economies are included, given responsibility and responsibility. But we see that it becomes more demanding to reach international consensus. And important questions are raised about the formal status of a forum such as the G20 – and about the relationship between the G20 and the vast majority of non-participating countries, and the other formal institutions, not least within the UN system. It is positive, even for Norway, that the G20 showed its power of action in the face of the crisis. But the G20 is a self-appointed group. It has not been chosen or appointed; it has no statute or regulation. The challenges of the financial crisis have dominated the agenda since the first meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the G20 countries in November 2008. But we see signs that it will be in the G20 circuit the informal basis for formal decisions is laid for a wide range of other issues, from climate to trade and who knows which other foreign-related areas. This raises fundamental and political issues in the legitimacy of decisions. Over 160 of the world’s countries, including Norway and the Nordic countries, do not participate. Together with the other Nordic countries, Norway argues to make the G20 more representative. This could be done, for example, by: is made through an electoral model that does not need to significantly increase the number of participating countries but ensures their anchoring and representativeness. A Nordic voice belongs to the G20, given the Nordic international commitment, our role in international cooperation, our total weight in the world economy and our financial contribution to the crucial financial institutions. It is the emerging economies – especially China – that have experienced the fastest recovery and that now represent the growth engine of the world economy. The importance of China in most contexts is growing faster than most people could believe. An increase in China’s exports of more than 40 pst is now reported. the last year and has passed Germany as the world's largest exporter. China is probably passing Japan as the second largest economy in the world and can take over the United States as the largest in 15 years. China has landed with the highest CO2 emissions, not per. is the population, but as a country — and, at the same time, the world’s largest producer of energy from renewable sources. Today, there is hardly any area in which China is not already the world's largest or second largest actor. And it's an actor who signed up with a completely different self-esteem than just a few years ago. This has meaning in almost all areas of international relations. The growth China has experienced in the last 30 years is in the best interests of its vast population and deserves recognition. China’s growth has reduced unvalued poverty and stimulated important parts of the world’s current growth. Today, China’s growth is more than previously based on domestic demand and not as much on exports. It strengthens the country's ability to choose economic policy strategies without compromising too much to the outside world. Before, it was only the US economy that was big enough to lead such an independent line, but China too now has this ability. At the same time, we see that China is vulnerable, and even Chinese authorities are concerned about the basis of Chinese growth. To date, China has deliberately chosen to play a more withdrawn role in international policy. This is now changing, on the one hand through its own will to power and, on the other, through the weights of politics and the economy: it also has consequences in international policies to include a series of political priorities. China is exposed, China must take responsibility, China must show its cards. The relationship between the United States and China, or G2, as someone calls it, will be of great importance. The growth of China has, in a sense, gone at the expense of the United States. However, the relationship is complex and characterised by interdependence — and therefore by mutual vulnerability. In Africa, we meet an ambitious China, with energy agreements and major infrastructure and food production projects. We get living insights into other forms of foreign and developmental alliance construction. China is putting quite other leaders on the cooperation it initiates, among other things. by focusing much less on so-called internal affairs, such as respect for human rights. China also claims to be stronger in its neighbourhoods. Energy security and supply lines are increasingly important here too. Although China is the world’s fifth largest oil producer, oil consumption has been higher than domestic production since 1993, and it is now importing half of its consumption. For Norway, this implies meeting Chinese interests in common issues such as: maritime safety and new transport routes. We note China's strong growing commitment to Arctic affairs. We have strong professional environments that can develop new opportunities together with Chinese counterparts. And we're experiencing Chinese interest in our social model, not least the arrangement of our welfare systems. This provides a basis for cooperation. Norway may also become the first European country to have a trade agreement with China, and its conclusion is a priority work by the Government. In view of China’s growing importance in almost all areas, the Government launched a China strategy in 2007. China is increasing its activity against the Norwegian market, and Norway is also visible in China. The government has decided to take part in the World Expo 2010 in Shanghai, providing good opportunities for reputation in a wide range of sectors. Also in Norway’s relationship with India, contacts and activity levels have escalated, with strong trade growth since 2005. The main new feature is the width of the Norwegian exposure. Business was first, but now comes research environments, organisations, culture and civil society. On this background, the government launched its India strategy last fall, and as I had the joy of following up during my recent visit to India, there among others. security policy discussions were on the agenda, with broad and sound content. The government prioritizes building up knowledge of the Asian major acts and of the global changes in power conditions that have been reinforced by the financial crisis. As a result, we also strengthen our representation at the foreign stations in this region. We should also do this by upholding the respect of our most important universal principles, such as human rights and freedom of expression. The increasing influence of countries that place less emphasis on these principles gives us a double challenge. We're going to and will expand the links with them – and we're going to and will do it in a way that doesn't go along with universal principles and legislation. This is also the focus of our work as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, as we have explained and discussed in this Chamber. Let me then move on to the third area, evolution in Europe. Norway’s starting point is clear: Europe’s development, political and economic, is at the heart of our national interests. This is our most important export market. If demand falls, Norwegian enterprises and jobs are directly affected. The European countries of the Framework are political and economic, allied to Norway, Nordic neighbours and close partners. If Europe's voice is weakened, through the EU or otherwise, this is negative in most contexts for our impact as well. Infringes tests now on the European Union and, in particular, on euro-cooperation. The financial crisis and its management led to an even greater deficit and further problems for many of the European countries that had already experienced a large budget deficit. Two thirds of EU Member States are currently under so-called deficit procedures, i.e. their budget deficit and/or indebtedness are higher than the criteria laid down in the Maastricht Treaty. In 2009, the EU area had a fall in GDP of about 4 pst. Worst has happened in the Baltic States, but also countries that are far more important to the international economy, such as Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy, have suffered a decline more than the EU average. The financial crisis has put the EU and the single currency on the first truly difficult test. A single currency, together with continued national sovereignty in fiscal policy, places great demands on the coordination of economic policies, as set out in the criteria for economic and monetary union. In the euro area, the euro has given a stable and stable currency and a relatively low level of interest rates, which has made high investment and high consumption possible in many countries. At the same time, the competitiveness of deficit countries has deteriorated and debt obligations have increased. In comparison, if a US state comes into trouble, health and social security expenditure from the capital will continue to be provided. Some such common public sector does not have the EU. Thus, the pressures on some countries are particularly high when exchange rates are bound. Member States that have not complied with the debt criteria over time are now closely followed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the other Member States. This applies, inter alia, to: Greece, which has submitted measures to be implemented to stabilise the situation. The restrictions have led to massive protests and illustrate the short way from the financial crisis to social and potential political unrest. Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland also face major political challenges as a result of high or rising public debt. We must expect that meeting the crisis will take much of the attention of EU cooperation in the future. In Brussels and in the capitals, measures are being taken to stabilise the situation in the short term and to facilitate growth in the longer term. The EU will strengthen cooperation on the supervision of the financial sector, including: the establishment of a new body for macro-prudential financial stability monitoring. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway will be able to participate in the arrangements being developed. In parallel with the management of the financial crisis, EU countries are working to further develop a common foreign and security policy and the establishment of a common foreign service in line with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon. The start of this bet field has not been painless. We see the clear ripples between a desire for stronger coordination and a clearer common European voice on the one hand and a desire, particularly among the larger EU countries, to mark their own foreign policy course and action on the other. The sum is becoming a more unclear European profile and a weaker European impact. We saw it in the course of the Copenhagen climate negotiations, and we see it in areas such as the EU's relationship with the United States, China and Russia. Some analysts point out that what we can expect is a kind of new economic normal state in developed countries, especially in Europe, with lower growth and higher unemployment for many years to come. The sum of large budget deficits and the operation of high government debt weighs public finances, but this also hampers economic growth and adaptability at a certain level. Many countries have to cut in and tighten in. But at the same time, it is afraid that this medicine may become so tough that it in turn weakens the possibility of new growth. At the same time, we should not forget that Europe today is equipped with a well-developed political cooperation network, in contrast to, for example, one. The 1930s. This is in the hope that the European countries will converge and not turn against each other. And it has turned out in the past that it is in such times of crisis that the EU countries are taking joint steps in the future, as we have, among other things. The 1980s saw the emergence of internal market plans. In this overall Europe – of which Norway is part – solidarity and cohesion must be demonstrated. We will see our contribution through the so-called EEA funding schemes in such a light. We will make a significant contribution, with over 15 billion DKK – 3 billion a year – over five years to the new Member States, under a renewed and up-to-date agreement that we set out to achieve at the summit of 2009. The initiative covers several areas, from climate to green growth, culture and industrial development. As an example, let me show that Norway is now the largest international supporter of civil society in the new EU Member States. The government is emphasising the use of these mechanisms in our contact building against these countries, which are also our new allies in NATO. So I think it's important to take into account that in this sinister real economic terrain, where many of our closest countries of cooperation in Europe are making painful changes, the contrasts with Norway can be even greater. We've kept track of the economy, and we have low unemployment. With our large petroleum resources and our trade surplus, we are in a special position internationally. This also imposes a responsibility on us. In the first phase of the financial crisis, we have helped to reduce the impact of the financial crisis on vulnerable neighbouring countries, among others. by providing bilateral advice to Latvia and Iceland. We have contributed extra resources to the international financial institutions, and we have maintained the assistance of over 1 pst. of GNI. However, we need to be prepared to increase the pressure on Norway — as a surplus nation — both through requests for aid to countries in difficulty and through searchlights on how we invest our profits through the State pension fund abroad. This underlines the importance of long-termity and recognition in our international behaviour, where the management of our financial resources is not a political instrument, but is as fully perceived as part of the Norwegian ‘footprint’ internationally. It's an commitment to assist Iceland in its difficult situation. The government shares this exposure. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, is the central lenders to Iceland in the context of the stabilisation process developed by the IMF together with the Icelandic authorities. A first part of the loan has been paid out. Following the referendum on Iceland on 6 March on the State guarantee for loans from the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in connection with the IceSave case, the three countries are preparing new negotiations. It is essential that the three countries reach agreement. The Icelandic Government has consistently stressed that it will comply with its international obligations and follow up the stabilisation programme with the IMF. As Norway sees it, this currently provides a basis for the continuation of the IMF programme. This is a vision we will continue to present to the other countries in our IMF circle. So to my fourth point: evolution in the United States. The fourth year was the worst for the U.S. economy of over 60 years, with a historically large fall in GDP in the United States, an increase in unemployment, a record budget deficit and a high level of public debt. As an illustration, it is highlighted that the United States, and the United Kingdom, have incurred a debt similar to that built up during World War II. The financial crisis and the recession, triggered by Bush's time, have created a massive political pressure against President Obama and his administration. The President faces formidable domestic challenges: ensuring continued economic growth, improving the labour market situation and reducing the large budget deficit. In addition, there will be the need to ensure health insurance for all and to limit the growth of high US health expenditure. Hardly anywhere, we see a clearer link between the political circumstances surrounding an economic crisis nationally and the conditions for an effective foreign policy. The Obama administration's efforts to get through the health reform have burdened political capital and pushed out a wide range of other issues in time in relation to the necessary treatment in Congress. This has an impact on the possibilities of getting through issues such as new climate legislation, a new WTO agreement or new historical disarmament agreements. The need to keep the attention to domestically combustible issues is reinforced by the congressional elections for the autumn. The result may be that policy objectives that require transformation and long-term — such as: in the energy sector – will be under pressure. International issues requiring power, time and attention in Congress will also be exposed, balanced against the immediate challenges that economic downturns have created. An example is international issues that need to be ratified by the Senate — such as the Treaty of Law on the Law of the Sea, the agreement on suspension and the ratification of the START Agreement. Furthermore, we see how the United States is burdened by the last decade's two major military commitments – in Afghanistan and in Iraq. This has cost both in human life, in dollars and in political profit compared to all the other commitments that the superpowers of the United States are in. This burden on the United States with effects on its relative international position should call our attention: it has global significance, but we must also follow this closely in relation to the importance we attach to good and present transatlantic relations. For Norway’s safety, these relationships remain of great importance. This underlines the importance of engaging the United States in our North Sea cooperation, and of building further relations with the United States in the development of Arctic cooperation and in all the other areas where we work complementaryly and complementaryly to the United States. Norway is working closely with the United States to contribute to the Middle East peace process. Here too, we see that a regional conflict will develop without the traditional power centers having enough weight or position to force a different course. This has occurred in the last few days' struggle over the new Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem. Norway is taking a great deal of distance from these plans. They're international law-enforcement. They're putting the peace process in jeopardy. And if they are implemented, they will physically close East Jerusalem away from a coming Palestinian state and thus make a realistic two-state solution impossible. In a time of crises that are shadowing the landscape – finance, environment, food prices – we need involvement in the Middle East, from the EU, the United States, the United Nations and other actors, and Norway will continue to contribute to this. Norway’s involvement and vote in the Middle East is clear and shall be relevant. A new meeting of the Palestinian donor country group, AHLC, chaired by Norway, is scheduled to take place in Madrid next month. It is now that AHLC is the only wider body in which Israel and Palestinians continue to meet formally. Several point out that it is actually the drive forward in the AHLC that is the area where progress is being made – in a picture of the Middle East that is otherwise marked by negative news. In other words, the United States is facing growing pressures. At the same time, we must bear in mind that while the dominance of the United States is weakening, the country will remain the strongest individual nation in the future for a long time. Militaryly, the United States remains the only power to operate globally. The United States continues to demonstrate on a regular basis the ability for technological breakthroughs and economic renewal. And we need American commitment to achieve results on most international issues – climate, disarmament, Afghanistan, the Middle East, relations with Russia, cooperation in NATO, strengthening the role of the UN, to mention something. But the point is this: we have to be prepared that the US focus will be more inwards, and towards Asia, in a different direction than Europe. We may also be at risk for the same reasons or as an effect that other major countries are increasingly concentrating on their own national economic problems rather than addressing global and regional challenges. This also concerns my fifth point: developments in Russia. Russia was severely affected by the financial crisis and today appears vulnerable. In 2009, Russia had a decline in GDP of 8 p.p., as opposed to the 10 previous years’ growth of more than 6 p.p. Direct foreign investment has fallen sharply. The large fall in the economy after the summer of 2009 has been flattened, but there is a widespread recognition – also expressed by President Medvedev – that the Russian economy needs to be fundamentally reformed and modernised if it is to avoid stagnation in the long term. We should particularly note that such modernisation will require closer integration with the Western economy. It is strongly energy- and commodity-dependent and characterised by one-sidedness in the economy. The fall in energy prices — oil and gas in particular — has made few countries feel as directly about the economy as Russia did. All of this helps to make Russia a major ‘unknown factor’ in the analyses of the impact of the financial crisis on international policy. A study shows that Russia is no. 120 out of 183 countries in terms of business-friendliness. Today, 130 Norwegian companies are established in Russia, 40 of which are registered in Murmansk. Improving the framework conditions in Russia is necessary to ensure that even more people find it attractive and secure to engage in the country. The Russian market offers great opportunities, as Norwegian companies have experienced, and cooperation on innovation, research and technology development is a priority for Norway. At the same time, significant risks remain, including political risks, to investments in Russia. It is Russia's responsibility to improve this, as the president of the country has pointed out. It is an objective of the Government to link Russia more strongly to international economic cooperation, including: through OECD and WTO membership. Bilaterally, we note that our relationship with Russia is consistently good. The main line of Norwegian policy towards Russia has been and is stability and long-term. We are seeing today the results of almost 20 years of conscious Norwegian commitment to trust building, project cooperation and development of the contact areas following the fall of the Soviet Union – especially in the north, where the environment and nuclear safety also have an important place. At the same time, we are aware of several worrying developments in today's Russia, including: with regard to human rights, freedom of expression and the conditions of a free civil society – the conditions that we regularly address in our discussions with Russian leaders. In other words, we have a broad and important agenda when the Russian President comes on a state visit to Norway during the spring. My sixth reasoning relates to the future of investment and the follow-up of the global common good. Examples of global common resources can include combating extreme poverty and hunger, global health measures, educational efforts, food security and broad efforts to combat climate change. We need to see in our eyes that increasing attention directed at the domestics towards painful mitigations can make it more difficult to finance solutions to global development tasks. The financial crisis has led to lower industrial output and, in isolation, to a reduction in climate emissions — in the short term — from several countries. However, the real economic and real policy consequences of the financial crisis can lead to a reduction in global climate challenges on the agenda of the peoples and politicians, and a deterioration in the technological growth needed to bring about cleaner transport, energy and industrial production. We need to be careful to draw the blatant conclusions on how the two crises – finance and climate – affect each other. But when this acute phase of the financial crisis is over, efforts to create a truly sustainable growth must be given new priority. This will have Norway’s full focus, precisely because climate change impacts may be more dramatic than the financial crisis, both in terms of power over natural resources, energy policies, distribution, migration and other factors. Towards the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Mexico in November/December Norway is working among others. with the negotiations on forest measures in developing countries and the establishment of a forest mechanism. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg sits in an advisory group appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, where Gordon Brown and Meles Zenawi are co-chairmen. This group is working on financing commitments in Copenhagen Accord and, in particular, on long-term financing. The Prime Minister will also host a high-level forest meeting at the end of May this year. The aim of the meeting is to establish a global forest partnership that can underpin a common forest mechanism for the preservation of the tropical forests of the world. Furthermore, Norway is working towards Mexico with climate adaptation and with mechanisms and incentives for carbon capture and storage in the form of offensive influence work at political level towards other countries. In the short term, mitigation measures resulting from the financial crisis may result in countries cutting into climate finance and in defence and aid budgets. We now see signs that the struggle for resources is intensifying in international organisations. According to current OECD estimates, donor countries will pay 107 billion US dollars in development assistance in 2010 and not nearly 130 billion, as suggested in 2005 in the so-called Gleneagles promises of the G8 meeting. Here is Norway – unfortunately, we might say – in a special position by reaching 1 pst. of GNI in aid. The consequences can be serious for the world’s poor countries, where the lack of social security networks and rising food prices make job losses a struggle for life. Although a number of other factors such as trade and investment are more important than assistance to ensure growth and development, we must not underestimate the importance of aid for humanitarian work and international mobilisation for poverty reduction. Weakness in the will of rich countries to respond to poverty can increase global tensions between rich and poor countries. The global financial crisis has helped to widen the gap between poor and rich. Only in the last year has there been 100 million more hungry and undernourished, and about 64 million more people live below the limit of extreme poverty in 2010. This will affect the work of the Millennium Goals and, in particular, the fight against poverty and hunger. The UN Summit on the Millennium Goals in New York in September is an important opportunity to settle the situation and, where appropriate, adjust the course. At the autumn summit, Norway will also be particularly concerned about getting a new start on child and mealmaking. Preparations for this have started from the Norwegian side. Women can be hardest hit by the financial crisis, even though men are directly affected by the growing unemployment. However, women dominate the workforce of the textile and other export and tourism industries, and these are highly vulnerable sectors. Furthermore, there is reason to fear that the financial crisis is putting increasing pressure on the rights of workers and that it is further testing the fight for decent work. Norway will do its part to keep this matter on the agenda, including: in the ILO and the WTO. Illegal capital flows, often channelled through tax havens, also constitute a significant obstacle to economic and social growth in many developing countries. This has become clearer during the financial crisis. In countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany, and in the EU, the G20 and OECD, there is increasing attention to tax avoidance issues. A space has been created internationally to address the devastating consequences of such tax evasion and illegal capitalisation for developing countries. We will take advantage of this space, and this work is central to Norwegian foreign and development policy. In the final part of the presentation, let me mention some individual areas that will be at the centre of the time – areas where the financial crisis does not have a direct impact, but indirectly because the current international climate resulting from the crisis is significant. First about NATO. NATO is now developing a new strategic concept that will guide alliance policies for many years to come. Since the adoption of the previous concept in 1999, NATO has been extended from 16 to 28 members. New things dominate. Terrorism is high on the global security policy agenda. NATO is an actor in Afghanistan, far outside the North Atlantic region. One of the main tasks is to identify the security challenges that will characterise NATO over the next decade and how they will meet. In parallel with the work on a new strategic concept, proposals shall be made for major changes to the NATO command structure and other organisation. In this work, the Government prioritises four main issues. Firstly, the partnerships. Through them, NATO has helped to ensure stability and development in Europe. Following the enlargement of the alliance, there is a need to adapt NATO’s various partnerships to increase the yield for partner countries and NATO, precisely because NATO’s partner countries are different and have different interests in cooperation with the alliance. Secondly, Russia, NATO’s main partner country. Cooperation in the NATO-Russia Council has gone through waves. Norway places emphasis on building trust between NATO and Russia. We want to ensure agreement on an ambitious objective for practical cooperation and political dialogue with Russia. There will be areas where we disagree, but these should not prevent cooperation where we have common benefit. Thirdly, searchlights on NATO's cooperation with other international organisations, in particular the United Nations and the EU. Afghanistan has shown how necessary this is. The government is working to strengthen cooperation with other organisations both in the field and in the headquarters. Fourth, focus on NATO's core task. The government still wants to focus on NATO's fundamental core task, namely collective defence. Our initiative to raise awareness in NATO about both collective defence and the neighbourhoods of the alliance is not about a kind of ‘derailment’ from NATO’s operation in Afghanistan. Norway fully supports this effort. One of the objectives of increased focus on the territory and neighbourhoods of the Alliance is to strengthen NATO's position within and outside as a legitimate and credible security guarantor. This foundation is a prerequisite for NATO's operations outside the core area. Furthermore, NATO’s function and future cannot be measured unilaterally according to the evolution of the operation in Afghanistan. NATO, through ISAF participation, is doing an important job in Afghanistan, but this contribution is only one part of the complex effort needed to succeed. We cannot measure NATO's importance to us by how the overall effort in Afghanistan is developing mutually. For the Government, continued NATO membership is a pillar of security policy. I would also like to add, in the light of the debate this winter, that our focus on NATO's neighbourhoods – for our northern regions in question – is not a message that we consider our neighbourhoods to be more vulnerable or threatened than before. Our intention is to stress that NATO's core task remains unchanged, that collective defence is the core wall, that our allies should know about the changes that are happening to us, as we should know about the realities that are close to them, that the sum of this is about the indivisibility of security. We are in an important time for international disarmament – a field of government is a high priority. This is about security, development, the promotion of international legal order, humanitarian law and human rights. As a method, it is about inclusive negotiation processes, with partnerships between states, new groupings, civil society and also the affected. We are in an important time and in a time of hope. There's several reasons for that. The United States and Russia are close to a new START agreement on the interception of long-range nuclear weapons – the first real disarmament agreement for nuclear weapons in two decades if it is concluded. In May, the United Nations Conference of Supervisors for the Non-Proliferation Agreement (NPT) and NATO discusses issues related to the strategic concept of the alliance. And when the two countries Burkina Faso and Moldova handed over their ratifications to the United Nations Convention on Class Ammunition on 16 February of this year, we reached the 30 States necessary for this Convention to come into force from 1 August of this year. These are positive signs in a politically mined landscape. At the same time, we know that the challenges are great. Neither in the Conference of Supervisors, NATO nor in concrete negotiations has it been stated that Norway’s position is emerging. The world community has acute challenges related to Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear programmes. They'd rather be bigger than smaller in the last year. The latest report on Iran from the International Atomic Energy Agency gives all cause for concern. Iran is responsible for proving that the concerns of the IAEA and the international community are groundless. If not, new Security Council sanctions will force. In the disarmament work, there are two considerations overseeing the Government: firstly, that we are able to use the new openings available for real progress in the various disarmament issues. Secondly, we are helping to adapt the international architecture of cooperation in the disarmament field to today's reality. This means that negotiations in closed rooms, with few participants, cannot be exclusive. Disarmament is a global issue. The negotiation processes must therefore include all relevant actors, both new state actors, civil society and the victims. The interest of ever-increasing new actors in the acquisition of nuclear weapons is clear. It happens in a security policy image that is more inconspicuous than during the Cold War. The fear that nuclear weapons will be used — not for deterrent purposes, but for terrorist purposes — is real. And the greater the spread, the greater the chance that they will be used. The objective of the non-proliferation agreement is to abolish nuclear weapons. The vision of a world without nuclear weapons was repeated by President Obama in his speech in Praha last April. This ambition is based on three pillars, and there are three base pillars of the NPT: non-proliferation disarmament peaceful use of nuclear technology It will be difficult to implement new non-proliferation measures if the will of nuclear power does not appear to be genuine. That is why it is so vital that the two nuclear weapons states of the United States and Russia should be able to enter into the current negotiations. And at the same time, if we're going to get real and permanent disarmament, we need a bottom-solid non-proliferation regime. In an age of increasing nuclear use, this is even more necessary. In parallel, we also need to promote what I would call an up-to-date view of the role of nuclear weapons. Although NATO is not a disarmament organisation, it is timely — about 20 years after 1989–90 — to discuss the deterrence doctrine of the alliance. It can only strengthen NATO as a credible defence organization that we openly raise the question of what gives us the greatest security today. Therefore, Norway, together with Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Germany, took the initiative to engage in a debate at the NATO Foreign Minister’s meeting in Tallinn in a month’s time. Norway has been an international driver for the disarmament of conventional weapons with unacceptable humanitarian consequences. Several Norwegian parliamentarians have played an important role here. Through work on the Mines Convention and the Classammunition Convention, Norway has contributed to the setting of new humanitarian law standards. These conventions focus on the need to determine whether the effects of the use of weapons can or must be prohibited. Conventions have a major impact on the lives of many people. They have increased the commitment and respect for such international instruments and have helped to strengthen international humanitarian law and international legal order. Now we focus on implementation. The government has increased efforts to clear up explosives and help victims through humanitarian organisations and the United Nations system. This year we also have the presidency of the Mines Convention. Norway is a supporter of Laos, the world's hardest hit country, holding the first state party meeting of the Classammunition Convention in November. Every day, 2,000 people die as a result of armed violence, often with handguns. Millions are being orphaned, homeless, or deprived of their future. This is unacceptable from a humanitarian standpoint, a major obstacle to development, and it violates fundamental human rights. Norway places this challenge on the international agenda together with other countries, organisations and civil society. We will create a pressure for world society and states to take responsibility for preventing and reducing armed violence through measures and commitments. Together with UNDP leader Helen Clark invites Norway to an international conference in Oslo in April to provide the basis for concrete objectives for this work. The aim of preventing and reducing armed violence is also the starting point for the Government’s work on an international arms trade agreement. We want an agreement where such trade is subject to strict restrictions. States must be obliged to ensure that weapons are not used to violate human rights and humanitarian law. And the victims' right to help has to be recognised. We also have to assess the issue of the introduction of a retail declaration in all arms sales. The government is working on clarifying the possibility of introducing this as a norm in NATO. I mentioned our neighbourhoods, and finally I would like to mention some aspects of what has always been the Government's main strategic focus in foreign policy, namely the North. We feel that the northern regions are setting a new international agenda. Developmental trends in the north, challenges and opportunities are engaging neighbouring countries, but also far wider – similar to Asia. With our focus on presence, knowledge and activity, Norway will continue to be in a leading position to express cooperation and efforts in the north. This is true in the region we define as the northern regions – north of Norway, north of Europe. This also applies to the Arctic, which is now being opened up as a result of climate change and increasing interest in resources and transport routes. In view of this presentation's focus on international cooperation, I would like to point out some aspects of international, legal and political development in the north. Here we take note of several positive moves. Firstly, in line with the Norwegian view, there is a growing recognition that the Arctic is neither a popular nor a legal area. The neighbouring regions of the Arctic Ocean are integral parts of the nation states, and their rights and obligations extend to the sea and to the plaice, in the same way as in other seas. The International Convention on the Law of the Sea provides a solid basis for policy-making and no specific new treaty is required. This view wins the pass. In addition, there are a number of environmental agreements where implementation and enforcement are important. And even though the United States, as the only country in the Arctic, has not ratified the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the rules of the Treaty are followed in practical policy, and there are strong interests in turn in the United States that want ratification during President Obama's period in the White House. The five coastal states of the Arctic Ocean – Canada, Greenland/Denmark, Norway, Russia and the United States – will meet in Ottawa next week to continue discussions on issues related to our responsibilities in the north. Discussions contribute to transparency and to building a good framework for international cooperation in this region. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea provides clear guidance on jurisdictional issues. One of them relates to the extent of the continental shelf. As the first Arctic State, Norway received last year’s final recommendation from the Continental Soccer Commission. It states that our base extends from the mainland to a point far north of Svalbard. This is an important clarification, and the bodies of Storting have been kept informed about this work. Secondly, the Arctic Council is the Central Arctic Cooperation Organisation. Norway wants the Arctic Council to reaffirm its role as a policy-making body for Arctic issues. In agreement with Denmark and Sweden, the Norwegian Arctic Presidency established a secretariat in Tromsø. It now serves the Danish and then the Swedish Presidency. We want to create a permanent secretariat, which would significantly strengthen the organisation, not least in the information field. But there has not now been an agreement to bring up new fixed observers to the Arctic Council. Countries like China and Japan, and the European Commission, are knocking. There shall be a clear difference between permanent members and observers, but Norway’s position is that actors such as these can contribute to strengthening the Arctic Council. Furthermore, Norway is in regular contact with China on the climate and environmental challenges in the Arctic, and both China and India are known to be established with research stations in the New Ålesund on Svalbard. Otherwise, let me underline the emphasis we attach on cooperation with the Nordic countries, as expressed in the follow-up to the Stoltenberg report, which has the full attention of the other four countries. Thirdly, with increased international focus on the north, we are working to ensure that the northern regions remain characterised by low voltage. Increased interest in the northern regions is not negative, threatening or necessarily conflict-making. We are to exercise sovereignty and authority in the north in a credible and predictable way, not in response to the experience of military threat from our old mental maps, but because increased activity requires more Norwegian presence, in the form of, among other things. enhanced oversight, enhanced search and rescue services and improved maritime surveillance systems. The defence has an important role to play in the protection of Norwegian interests in the north, also in areas that are primarily civil. This is why the Government strengthens our operational capacity by, among other things. new frigates and a coastguard with increased capacity. Several international forums in addition to Arctic Councils, such as Barents Cooperation and the Northern Dimension, play important roles. The International Maritime Organisation, the IMO, is also among them, and I was recently in London to discuss progress in the adoption of an internationally binding regulatory framework for Arctic shipping. Norway has played a leading role here. Fourthly, and finally, our desire to see the many political perspectives in the north — including those of foreign policy — makes it even clearer in the context that the Government aims to present a communication to the United Kingdom on the Northern Region policy during this period. In sum, we can see that the northern regions are one region we share with several other actors, allies and neighbours, and that none of the opportunities or challenges in the north can meet Norway alone. Similarly – but on a completely different scale – we see how the global financial crisis in the field of regional policy has an impact on foreign policy and international cooperation at large. Any problem in our world can quickly become everyone's problem. The place 'far away' is hardly any more in our electronic age, where people, goods, viruses, capital and statements are as well travelled. Furthermore, matters will dominate the attention. But we should also focus on the heavy driving forces that form the framework of foreign policy, because ultimately our security depends on the ability of states to meet these challenges together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e444	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e460	The background to the Government’s legislative proposals is the coverage of VAT fraud in intra-EU carbon allowances trading. According to Europol, VAT fraud could have led to the loss of around EUR 5 billion by the Member States, i.e. significant amounts. The European Commission has made an urgent proposal to amend the VAT Directive. Several Member States, including Denmark, have followed up on their own actions. It is good, but the more countries that adopt countermeasures, the more likely it is that such fraud can be moved to Norway. The Government therefore proposes, as an urgent proposal, that the purchaser be responsible for the calculation and payment of VAT on domestic sales of climate allowances to traders and public undertakings, in order to mitigate VAT fraud. It is a proposal that the whole committee supports. I would like to thank the Committee for contributing to the rapid progress of this matter, and that we now have the legislative proposal finalised in the Grand Duchy before Easter. I refer you to the committee's unanimous recommendation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e472	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2590]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e488	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e497	The transport sector accounts for the largest share of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, with a total of 32 pst. In addition, emissions in this area have increased most in recent years. The Storting Climate Change Agreement sets targets for a decline in domestic climate emissions that requires shifting the increase in emissions in transport to a strong decline. Fuel charges will be one of the means of achieving this objective. The majority of the Committee – The Working Party, the Centre Party and the SV – point out that the fees need to stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour by helping to reduce the total amount of car transport, while at the same time wanting a greater share of car transport to be done with environmentally friendly fuels. A third prerequisite for the charges is that all road users are required to pay the costs associated with the use of the road. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left point to the need for predictable fuel charging policies. They see a large potential for CO2 cut through major phase-in of biofuels. In addition to this, they shall be able to make their own views known. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party are not concerned with emissions reductions in their comments, but are primarily concerned with the need to reduce the total revenue from fuel taxes and other taxes on motor vehicles. The Progress Party believes that high fuel prices contribute to increased centralisation. They will probably explain this in more detail. The majority of the Committee is concerned about the need for a long-term approach to fuel taxes. That is why we believe that fundamental assessments should be made in the context of the State and National Budget. I attend such a review in connection with next year's budget. There will be no more predictability of a review already in the revised budget. SV would stress the importance of having two tanks in your head at the same time, namely to have charges that reduce the overall use of cars, while at the same time ensuring that more of the use of cars occurs with less polluting fuels. There are several instruments to achieve this objective. There has never been so much use of biofuels in Norway as today due to the marketing ban, which imposes at least 2,5 pst on oil companies. the fuel they sell shall be biofuel. The government has announced that this should be increased to 3.5 pst. in years and 5 pst. Next year. We have also agreed with oil companies to report on the climate benefit associated with increased use of biofuels. SV believes it is important to establish a long-term plan for further stepping up the biofuel share. SV agrees with the Progress Party that car charges should cover the total cost of car and car use in society. It also includes, of course, the environmental costs of car use, and the car is getting away too cheap today. We also agree with the Progress Party that Norway is a long-distance and widely populated country with large distances, and that this means that the car has come to stay. But I would like to point out that it is not on the outskirts that the car is the most driven, but in areas that I myself come from, that is, around medium-sized cities like Tønsberg, or in Akershus for that matter. In the SV’s view, there is a need for a tax regime that is both easy to understand and easy to follow up and that does not create tax gaps and too many exemptions. In this context, we find it interesting to look at the proposal submitted by the ZERO Environment Foundation. They point out that the CO2 tax on diesel and petrol in Norway is much lower than in Sweden and much lower than the price of the measures needed to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions. An exchange of CO2 tax and road tax in Norway towards Sweden’s level of charges will help to make non-fossil fuels more reasonable. At the same time, it can reduce the need for other specific rules. The right, Christian People's Party and the left refer to Climate Change, which points out that there is a great potential for emissions cuts. At the same time, climate change shows that total transport work needs to be reduced, and the report proposes a strong increase in the fuel price. We had a notice of a doubling of the gas prices. I don't think that's realistic. It must be prepared to have an increase in the fuel price, but it must be combined with a large-scale effort on the alternatives, namely public transport and rail. I hope that in the 2011 state budget we will be able to present a proposal for fuel taxes that will meet the majority comment and can agree on fuel taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e539	It is good to hear that SV agrees with the Progress Party that Norway is a long-distance country and spreads the population, but there also stops all consensus. One cannot talk about car charges without seeing all the charges associated with the car and car use in the context. The proposers have picked out one of the fees, the fuel tax, based on the climate problem. I agree with the proposers that we must have a predictable charging policy, which the debate on the biodiesel tax has shown to be complete that we do not have. I also agree with the rapporteurs that developments in the industrial and technological environments we have in Norway need to be facilitated. This, of course, is not done by introducing or increasing the levy for a type of fuel overnight, as the Government did in the biodiesel case in the budget for this year. Both manufacturers and users of this type of fuel had made large investments that became unprofitable overnight, without any kind of notice. Such a way of dealing with operators who wish to be environmentally aware causes any investors to miss this market, and users are reluctant to invest environmentally soundly because the regime of rules and charges changes overnight. This is unpredictability set in the system, which the Progress Party takes a distance from. If you want to see the whole picture of car policy, you have to look at the total car charges, the accidents, the pollution, the operation of the road network and the fact that the car is a good thing for society, especially in a country that is as scattered as Norway. Facilitating the industrial and technological development of fuels alone does not provide the basis for lower emissions, or rather, emissions from the Norwegian fleet are based not only on the types of fuels on the market but at least on the same rate of replacement in the fleet. Norway has an old car park in connection with the rest of Europe. It does not help that we have developed new types of fuel if we do not have a fleet that tackles this. To this end, the Progress Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to review the overall level of car and car charges in the revised 2010 national budget with a view to reducing them.’ This does not mean that we want to lower the car charge in the revised national budget, but we want to have the fact on the table before the 2011 budget is presented. As stated in the proposal, the Progress Party has an objective of reducing the fees. After reading the comments of the government parties, one could be inclined to believe that they agreed, because one of the comments says: ‘On a principle, all road users should pay a charge equivalent to the costs they incur to society in the form of accidents, queues, noise, emissions to air and road wear.’ I am asking you to note the word ‘corresponds’, because it is a fact that the drivers pay far more than the actual costs they incur to society. After all, there have also been several fiscal politicians from these parties who, in several debates, have stated that the car tax is a fiscal charge, i.e. a tax that intends to raise money for the Treasury. Now I have no faith that the government parties will take it on board – the desire to charge the population is too big for it. I have registered that to make the population act as the Government wants, the use of fees is an important tool. I am not so sure that this works entirely according to its purpose. If we look at countries where you have low or no taxes on the purchase of cars, a quick sign is that the sale of environmentally friendly cars is much higher than in Norway. In most European countries, CO2 emissions are by car lower than they are in Norway. This is, of course, because the car park is newer than in Norway, and thus the latest modern technology is used. I guess no country sells more hybrid cars, cars made for the use of E85 and biofuels, and electric cars than the United States, and there is no or very little charge on both cars and fuels. This shows that the population is able to make reasonable choices without the government having to force them to do so. It is in stark contrast to the strong confidence of the rapporteur in the point of charge. He may be able to explain why countries with little or no fees have lower emissions per year. car than what you have in Norway, where we have high taxes and the use of the bar. In addition to the different types of charges, the legislation for the approval of cars is rigid and slightly forward-looking. We have many examples that eco-friendly cars that are side-imported to Norway are not approved due to a complex regulatory framework. Among other things, many hybrid cars have been sent out of Norway and back to the country from which they were imported, because they had to pass complicated and expensive tests even if documentation could be obtained. There is therefore a basis for looking at the entire Norwegian charging policy and the approval legislation in the field of car policy. I take up our proposal and show that we will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e574	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e577	After the state budget was presented, we in the Right felt that there was a rather large gap between policy objectives and resources, well exemplified by the biodiesel issue. It's about people having confidence that government arrangements will last over time. It's about investment security, both for buyers of a product and sellers and producers of a product. It's about the next time the state introduces new arrangements, people may not respond as the state and society want you to do, just because you no longer believe that the state will live up to its promises. The majority point out in the comments on the case that ‘long-term use of the instrument is needed to ensure that operators have predictable framework conditions’. So let's see. Now the Minister of Finance is back in the Chamber, and I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to answer whether he thinks the wording of the government parties in that note is adequate for the biodiesel issue. I would also like to challenge the next speaker, Mr Lundtigen, who has actually followed the proposers quite well, on his view of this. It is also remarkable that SV, who has the case rapporteur in this case, does not use the opportunity to meet a real majority in Stortinget. This shows once again that you are protesting for the whole world, but you are on the move, even if you have the case rapporteur on one point. Climate challenges require new technologies and new products. This is expensive, it takes a long time, and it requires a lot of money and patient owners. Often new products will be expensive at the start-up stage, and tax relief will be needed for a period of time. This is the subject of a relatively broad consensus, but there is still no political guidance on the duration of such exemptions and incentives. It exposes them to political risks and ropes, and they often become an easy victim of late-night adjustments in government conferences, usually without reasons other than the popular proceeds. What we right-wing proposers are responding to is getting systems that are vulnerable and that contribute to immediate changes in framework conditions without prior signaling, for companies that are in a start-up phase responsible for million values in loans. No one deserves it. If the production of second-generation biofuels is to be competitive at an introductory stage, it depends on the exemption from the auto-diesel tax. If not, the Norwegian domestic market will disappear. There is therefore a need for a review of the fuel charging system to create predictable and stable framework conditions to ensure the future of climate-friendly fuels. Where temporary exemptions from non-climate charges have been introduced for new fuels, the period of time to which the exemption applies must be indicated early in order to allow manufacturers and consumers to adapt accordingly. I feel that the case rapporteur came to us a little in a meeting at the end. That means we have some expectations of the state budget. It is necessary to establish predictable criteria for the nature of the charges to be imposed, the nature of the charges to be exempted for new climate-friendly fuels and the duration of the exemptions. It is not the case that all the costs of car use are the same, as the Minister of Finance and the case rapporteur later imagined. The important costs of car use are not general, in terms of neither queue, noise, accidents, pollution or road wear. The case rapporteur claims that most of the car use takes place in the cities. Well, the Norwegian Petroleum Institute says that most of the car use, actually as much as 85 pst. of it, not in the cities, but in District Norway. And there's less pressure on the roads. The fees also do not take into account evening and night driving and the number of people inside the cars. The country must use the charging system to help ensure that the choice of environmentally friendly fuels is not unprofitable. There should therefore still be an exemption from the car diesel tax on all biodiesel, as this is still in an introduction phase. However, when the instrument is abolished, problems arise for those who have invested in new developments, who have invested in manufacturing plants, or who have bought a new – and more expensive – car in confidence that the subsidy scheme will continue. Such misinvestment involves socio-economic losses which the financial committee should be particularly interested in correcting. One way to avoid this is to inform in good time that the instruments coming will be phased out within a certain period, possibly when a market share has become so and so large. Finally, I should like to raise a point of order. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e607	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e610	I would like to follow up with a few comments on what the rapporteur, Mr Egeland, said about the fundamental assessments. There are two aspects that are central to this matter. It is a comprehensive charging system, i.e. a charging system for all fuels, and that is predictability – predictability for all transport users and all fuel producers. Then we're talking about predictability in a time perspective of five to ten years in the future, because we know that there's going to be huge investment to generate fuels that are socially more useful than what they are today. Something good has come out of that debate, and it is that we have a system today that is not sufficiently comprehensive and predictable. It is the positive thing that has come out of the debate on fuel taxes recently. Furthermore, it is clear that the social costs for road users are high. On the part of the government parties, we are very concerned that the overall level of charges must be ensured in order to finance the Community's tasks. This view is widespread because alternative sources of income for the country are not particularly popular. The question then is, how are we going to set up the fuel charges for the future? What should be taken into account in the overall use of the road, and what should be considered in the case of carbon dioxide, which is the major challenge in reducing emissions? Furthermore, for a period of time, an incentive must be provided for a new type of fuel that will pay off both for the road user who uses it and for the person who produces it, so that it enters the market. It's classic economic thinking to change the behavior. What the government stands for is that a boat must have such a favourable phase-in system, and that over time the fuel charges turn towards a higher proportion of carbon dioxide in total. It is therefore possible to give a benefit to the fuel that does not generate net carbon dioxide emissions in the charging system in the future. There will be a central debate in the forthcoming budgetary negotiations and discussions on how to ensure completeness and predictability. The most interesting thing about what has been said so far is that neither the Advance Party nor the Right has any view of what they actually mean by the whole and predictability, other than that it is to do having the cheapest fuel possible and the least possible fees. It makes the government get a big plus, it does make it the government that has the control speed. It is the government that can make proposals about what is the whole system and the foreseeable system, because the opposition has no alternative, except that there is the lowest possible fees. This means that government parties have a great opportunity here to design a system in the future that takes account of the different interests of the state budget, while at the same time safeguarding the long-term interest of road users and manufacturers. The government parties are thus in an excellent position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e627	I almost have to replicate a little so that the government parties are ‘in an excellent position’. There are probably very few outside this room who have discovered that the government has had some ‘gliding’ position in the case of e.g. biodiesel cases. But it's possible the world appears a little different in here than out there, which, of course, Lundtigen usually tends to be very busy. For the truth, I think everyone will admit that such a process as one had around the cost of biodiesel, nobody wants one more time, where from the government in the election campaign one after another opens the factory with tabs and fanfares and says this is going to be great. Then there will be charges two to three months later – charges that were actually known at the time you stood and cut strings, would come, and that caused major problems for manufacturers. If this is a brilliant starting point, I fear the continuation. But let me take it positively: I understood from the representative of the President-in-Office of the Court that he would focus on the long-term and predictability of car charges. I take it as an invitation to discuss it in the context of the 2011 state budget. Then I will speak to the representative, Mr Egeland. To repeat the starting point, the biodiesel case: look to Sweden. What did you do there? OK, they said they would have a fee, they would grant a fee exemption for a certain period of time, but both producers and consumers could relate to something that would happen three to four years in the future. I also realized that Lundtegen agreed that a time horizon had to be set on this, so that it is actually possible to relate to what the authorities are going to do. Then the question is, how does the government intend to do its job so that producers and consumers can have the predictability and long-termity that you are in favour of? That is what the opposition, on the basis of the Right proposal, has laid the groundwork for. I hope that the discussion of this proposal for a representative and the signals coming from the majority will mean that we can have a real discussion on this in connection with the government budget for next year. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e640	For the Left, there is no doubt that the climate challenges are one of the greatest challenges we face. The aim of the left is for Norway to take the decisive steps, during this ageing period, from being a fossil nation to becoming a renewable energy society. We want Norway to be in a position to develop and implement new technologies, create new environmental jobs and make changes in all areas of society that have climate implications. If we are to succeed in this, we must pursue a consistent policy that takes account of climate change in all areas. Despite the expressed willingness of almost all parties to reduce Norwegian climate emissions, the fasitium is the opposite. Total climate emissions are increasing almost every year, and they have increased most in the last ten years — from road traffic emissions. This is a development that cannot continue. Therefore, the left will have faster phase-in of zero-emission vehicles and another new environmentally-adapted technology in the transport sector. In reality, we're talking about biofuels, hydrogen and electricity. The problem is not that this is technology that is far ahead of time, but that this is currently not economically competitive, and that the abolition by the Government and government parties of the exemption from the car diesel tax for biodiesel only made hurt worse. Therefore, there is an absolute need for an overall review of the principles of charges for predictability both for producers and consumers, as proposed by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The majority now announces that such a review should take place in the context of the presentation of the next year’s budget. That's good, but this is urgent. This should have been done already at the time of the presentation of the revised budget this spring, as proposed by the rapporteurs. Climate change 2020 states that it may be possible to achieve a reduction in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector of a volume of 3-4,5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2020. If this is to succeed, it is obvious that there must be a comprehensive, predictable charging policy that stimulates environmentally friendly fuels rather than fossil fuels. The left considers that it is at least necessary to meet the objectives of Climate Change 2020 that are realistic for the transport sector. The left considers it possible to halve emissions from the car fleet by 2020. If we're going to succeed, we're going to have to have another set of instruments. With the Minister of Finance present, I allow myself to outline ten different measures that will be essential for success: change car charges to stimulate the use of low- and zero-emission vehicles such as hybrid cars, electric cars and fuel cell cars to set annual, progressively strict emission targets for new cars and adapt the charging system to ensure target achievement ensuring the placing on the market of at least 10 pst. biofuels and hydrogen by 2013 ensure that 2nd generation biofuels are commercially available by 2013 at the latest, prohibiting the resale of cars that can only rely on fossil energy, from 2015 extending the use of the existing zero-emission trolleybus technology contributes to the construction of hydrogen infrastructure, biofuels and electric cars, giving freedom to introduce several environmental zones in urban centres, where vehicles have to comply with strict, defined environmental requirements in order to introduce strict environmental requirements for vehicles in public tenders, taxi concessions and in driving allowances and business vehicle schemes that public enterprises generally purchase low- and zero-emission vehicles; These measures could bring us together where the Left will: to a zero-emission transport sector. In the meantime, we'll have to wait for another investigation from the Government. Investigations are fine enough, but I would most respectfully say that it will not be the Left against whether the new investigation is somewhat more exasperating and far-reaching than what has so far come from the Government, both in terms of the will and the ability to implement powerful measures to reduce climate emissions here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e692	Some brief comments on the matter. As others have pointed out, the tax arrangements are adopted in the context of the annual budgets, i.e.: first of all, the State budget in the autumn. It is therefore quite natural that the more fundamental assessments and review of the charging system are carried out in the context of the State and national budgets themselves. I intend to do that, so that the Storting in the autumn will be presented with a case in which we have a broad review of fuel charges. I look forward to that discussion. Otherwise, I would also say, as an answer to a previous post, that for a finance minister it is a bad practice to notify concrete tax changes in advance. It is rarely cheated for many reasons, both because it can lead to adjustments to release any fee that comes — or vice versa. I think it is important to deal with the budgetary documents that are presented to the Stortinget. So a few words about climate change. Climate change is a basis for assessing the use of the instrument in climate policy by 2020. This report has no recommendations on the types of actions and instruments to be implemented, but has a factual basis and provides different options and options for action and instruments. We need time to evaluate this. The report has now been sent to the hearing on 20 May. The cost estimates in the Climate Action Programme will also be addressed in the national budget for 2011, and I also believe that the report will be an important basis for the work on a separate climate policy update that the Government will promote in the autumn of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e703	Then it opens for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e706	The Workers' Party and the Government have a belief in governing people's way of acting in society that lacks equality. Based on this, it would be thought that Norway had one of the lowest emissions of CO2 in the world, but it is not. In Europe, they consistently have lower CO2 emissions per year. Car than you have in Norway, and even though we in Norway are driving use through a charge in a very strong way. Can the Minister of Finance explain why this is so?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e717	First, I want to say that both the undersigned, the Government and many others have great faith that people are able to set themselves up sensibly. At the same time, it is also true that, for example: charges shall balance the influence, or change, on people's behaviour, while at the same time giving revenue to the national fund. With regard to the last part of the question, this is an important matter for the Government. That's why formerly the red-green government, the one I'm now a member of, has had as a clear goal to reduce emissions, among other things. from new cars to 120 g/km. It is a goal that the Government is firmly committed to, and it will make an important contribution to reducing CO2 emissions from the car park in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e727	The finance minister says that it has never been tricked by a finance minister to advance notice of tax changes. Well, you'll find that's exactly what the government's different leaks have done in the last few months. There has been a whole bunch of charging leaks, that it goes up and down. It's maybe more adaptable than you'd think. So to what's the question. I feel that the case rapporteur, Egeland, makes a statement to the Stortinget that what the proposers are really asking for, is actually being answered in the State budget, while the Minister of Finance is now replying to the Stortinget that it is a stupid idea or a bad proposal. We want the Ministry of Finance, Stortinget and the Government to have a plan. When taking large areas of investment that are temporary – everyone knows it is temporary – you want to know what criteria to apply when it is removed. What is the Minister of Finance's plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e734	Now I think that the representative Kambe did well for the finance minister’s point of view, because what I said was that it is ‘rarely tricked’ ‘to notify concrete tax changes’. On the other hand, both in the budgets for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 this government announced the principle of payment of user charges, which is something else. Otherwise, there is no contradiction between the undersigned and the case rapporteur that the Stortinget will be presented with a broad basis for assessing the fuel tax in the context of the State budget and the 2011 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e741	It's not the first time we hear from the majority and the finance minister that they say something about the level of fees, it's not the case. It shall be ‘opened’ as a wrapped-in glossy Christmas package when the State budget is presented. At the same time, when asked about the need for long-termity and predictability of the charging policy, I have not heard anyone who has said that it is not in place, such as. the Swedish government did in the situation of the biodiesel tax coating in Sweden. So my question is, does the Council of State think this is impossible to combine?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e746	On the one hand, it is probably a practice that finance ministers from different governments have had in the past and will have in the future. It's enough in culture, to say it that way. Otherwise, I agree that it is possible to notify structural changes that have a certain long-term impact, and that is what the Government has done through, for example. alerting in the state budget that I mentioned instead. It says: ‘On a principle, all road users should pay a charge equivalent to the costs they incur to society in the form of accidents’, etc. There is a warning that all drivers should be subject to that type of charges, but notifying specific rates and such things is something that must be reserved for the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e758	There is no doubt that the Minister of Finance, who is also the Minister of Sustainability of the Government, has the key to many of the solutions to reduce CO2 emissions from road traffic. This applies in particular to the allocation side with the necessary stepping up and bet on the railway, but it is probably so much the tax regime linked to the ownership and use of environmentally friendly cars, and to increasing the bet on the development and production of environmentally friendly fuels and an infrastructure to make this available to most people. I have launched ten actions in my article that can help to achieve this. I would challenge the Minister of Finance to think a little loud about what he sees as the most important single measure to bring down the emissions from car traffic to the order of magnitude outlined in Climate Change 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e768	I have noticed the ten proposals that the representative came with, and I take them with me when the minutes come, because I did not want to record them during the post. Otherwise, there are two things that can reduce emissions from cars. One is the emission from the car itself, and the other is reduced car use. This means that investing in increased technology development is important. This year’s government’s commitment to new technologies to find alternative fuels is important. The tax itself will also have an effect, i.e. the level of the CO2 tax. And it's also quite right, as the representative says, that having a well-developed collective offering, especially in and around the big cities, is important for reducing emissions, and important for reducing car use. But I will take with me the proposals the representative referred to in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e778	It's always nice to have a conversation with the Minister of Finance. There is not always an answer to what is asked, but I was assured of that part of the answer where the Minister of Finance says that he has great faith in people's reasonable actions. I'm very happy about that. But the question I asked was not answered. This was the reason for lower emissions from the car park in Europe, where there are lower — or no — charges than in Norway. You'd think Norway was on top here. I interpret the answer I got instead, as if the Minister of Finance could not answer that question, and I did not expect that to happen. But there's something I would like to think that the finance minister said a little about: it's not just the fuel tax or the fuel that makes it less or more pollution, it's a whole. It has to do with the purchase fee on the car, the introduction of modern technology in engines, etc. Wouldn't it be better – in context – if you had an overall review of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e788	Thanks in the same way, to the introductory part of the line. Otherwise I refer to the answer I gave to the previous replicator in terms of the more width of it. I can promise that we will come back to this question in its full scope in the state budget and the national budget. There may be various reasons why the car park in Norway has a higher emissions. This could be done, for example, by: have something to do with the age of the car park. The fact that we have changed car charges over the year now, so that it has become relatively more reasonable to buy low-emission cars, will also have an effect in Norway over time. But, as I said, we'll come back to this in a few months, and then there'll be a broader and larger debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e797	The cord shift is over. The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e802	It's not more than a few months since the government councils Solheim and Brustad went to Norske Skog's facilities on Follum to praise the development of new biodiesel technology. Nor has it been many months since the Minister for the Environment, with the custom of modest use of words, opened the biodiesel factory Uniol in Fredrikstad. One should perhaps stop being surprised at the distance between words and action in the government's environmental policy, even though the pattern is beginning to become quite clear. But the biodiesel issue is about more than environmental policy. It is also about predictable framework conditions and the trust between the Government and the business community that wants to invest in green technology and industrial development. Apart from the enormous potential for reducing emissions from the transport sector, this is at the heart of the problem. The right agrees with the Government that there is reason to be skeptical about some types of first-generation biofuels. At the same time, we read Darwin down to the point that the second generation is hard to escape if you've killed the first generation. No one in this room expects biofuels to be exempt forever, but we expect stable, predictable framework conditions for an exciting new growth industry based on Norwegian technology, raw material, competence and capital. The question that is now pressing forward is whether what we have seen this year is a warning that the tax exemption for cars and buses running on electricity, gas, hydrogen and bioethanol will be removed as early as next year. What kind of signal is the Government actually wanting to send to business operators and consumers who count on the buttons whether to bet green and forward-looking? What municipalities would like Oslo to buy a new series of bioethanol buses, if there is uncertainty as to whether keeping conventional diesel buses in operation will be cheaper as early as next year? The Prime Minister has repeatedly stood on the pulpit in this Chamber preaching his principal reasons for imposing a car diesel tax on biodiesel. It would have been understandable if he were consistent. He's not. For what is the Government's basic reason that cars running on other environmentally friendly fuels are not to pay for road wear, queue and accidents, while vehicles using biodiesel are to do so? What is the principle reason why cars running on the E85 do not pay the petrol tax on either the ethanol or the 15 percent of petrol, while those driving on biodiesel have to pay in full? What is the reason that electric cars will not pay for road wear while biodiesel cars will pay? There is a need for a comprehensive review of the taxes on biofuels, a review aimed at promoting increased use of environmentally friendly fuels, but also predictability for technology environments, businesses and consumers. Climate change 2020 points to increased use of biofuels as one of the most important means of cutting Norwegian emissions in the transport sector. It is therefore essential that the Government change course before it is too late, preferably in the context of the revised national budget. There is no shame in turning – especially not in Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e830	I needed a brief comment in connection with the article of the Political Spokesman of the Christian People's Party, Syversen. I thought it was unnecessary for me to comment on the biodiesel tax that we have had last year, but I can say it very clearly: that process was not in line with what we are now talking about, completeness and predictability. That process was unfortunate. There is therefore a need to review this. There is no doubt that what we have been through in connection with biodiesel caused Uniol factories in Fredrikstad to get a reality that makes that factory stand. There is no doubt that it is unfortunate, unfortunate, unfortunate. What I also want to say is, what is the opposition's alternative? What is the option of the Right and Advance Party? It is mentioned here that one must have stable and predictable framework conditions, and then mention is made of stable charges. Yes, what is the consequence of stable charges? Will it be the dynamics that we want to stimulate in the direction of? No, of course not. We cannot have stable charges. But we have to have a comprehensive charging policy that ensures a holistic view of all fuels. So one has to have predictability as to what's going to happen in that area. So we don't get an answer to that from the Right and the Advance Party, sail if they ask questions about this. There is a weakness for those lots, but it provides an opportunity for the opposition to have the necessary steering speed in the case. This is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e839	It might have become a little bit more tame discussion than many had hoped. This may be due to a large consensus, with the exception of the Progress Party, on the desire to use the fees to promote the phase-in of biofuels in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As I said before, there has never been as much biofuels as today. But that's not enough. We want to increase the use further. I also agree with the list of measures put forward by Mr Q. Raja. It was nice that he included in the list the proposal that SV came up with, to ban cars that only go on fossil fuel – a proposal that the Left agreed to ridicule when we put it forward. The proposal we are discussing today is therefore a review of the fuel charges. But as the Minister of Finance also made clear, there will be a review of the total car charges, including one-off taxes and annual charges, precisely with the aim of rewarding those who buy environmentally friendly cars, and of phase-in new technology, which I believe is important. Kenneth Svendsen made a demagogic point of CO2 emissions per. car, which he pointed out is lower in some other European countries. That is only a demagogic point, because it is the total emissions from the car that are important. You can have an energy efficient car and drive a lot and emit a lot of CO2. And you can have an old CO2 hosting that you almost don't run, and drop out less. It's important to point out that only 50 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions from the car are actually related to fuel. The rest is related to other things. What really surprised me most here is that no one from the opposition has been concerned about having the two tanks in their heads at the same time – both phase-in more environmentally friendly fuel and getting the total emissions from the car fleet down through less driving. Biofuels are important, but it is obvious that there is not enough to solve the climate problems associated with emissions from transport. We also have to bring down the total volume of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e863	I am actually quite stated when I hear the case rapporteur from SV in this case, because he excludes the Progress Party, as if the Progress Party never wanted to have an incentive in relation to alternative fuels. The Progress Party has been on it, in line with all other parties. Similarly, I was a little surprised when the case rapporteur suddenly spoke about the fact that it was only the government that allegedly thought about the overall emissions from the car, and not just the fuel emissions. Yes, this whole debate by the Government has only been about the emissions from fuel. When the Progress Party has tried to emphasise that the charges should reflect the totality, it has not been so important. The important thing for the Government has been that, for example: hybrid cars, because they don't release much when they're driven, are going to have a tax advantage, while others, we're going to say more old-fashioned cars, which are easier to produce, have less emissions in production context. So they're being punished for this in the charging system. So the relationship SV here claims that the government has, they've actually gone against themselves. The Council of State spoke of the long-term warning of a government budget principle that there will be a payment for road use also for alternative fuels. That's right. They have determined that tax exemptions are the best tool – for four years in a stretch. What makes the debate now special in the last year is that they have gone away from this principle without having had an overall review first. So it's only due in 2011. Then I challenge the Council of State to explain to the Storting: why was it so important to make a change just on biodiesel before you got a complete review of the entire charging system? What about biodiesel that makes it so different from bioethanol, which is also a bio-based fuel? Bioethanol, E85, taken up by the representative of Astrup, has a tax exemption on all bio content and on petrol content. So there is no non-principal equal treatment within alternative fuels from the Government either. Bioethanol and biodiesel have the same environmental impact – positive or negative. But one has to pay for pollution and road wear, while the other even gets tax-free petrol involved. There's no whole thing. I heard that the representative Lundteg said that the opposition has not had an alternative, while the government has thought completely. The government's approach in this matter shows that they do not know how to maintain the principle approach in the charging policy. On the other hand, the opposition has said that a review should be carried out in total. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we have several times aired that one, for example. could have had an approach to alternative fuels where one says that such and such legislation should be on the charging side from a 10-year perspective. One could, for example: have said that all alternative fuels shall be subject to a full five-year fee exemption, then a five-year phase-in period during which they are subject to a fee equivalent to fossil fuels. Then one gets a derogation for CO2 taxes when it is not CO2 emissions. It's a good alternative approach that Lundteg obviously hasn't got, but it still exists in the real world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e882	It should well be raised above any doubt that there are other ways of doing things than what the government has done in the last year, at least. The Minister of Finance clearly indicates that there will be a review of the 2011 budget. I understand that you do not signal too much in advance when it comes to what you intend to do in the charging area. At the same time, I know that SV's fiscal spokesman and the rapporteur for the matter have an influence on what can happen, and it makes me a little worried when he can say such things as that it's not mostly run out in District Norway. First of all, I would like to ask if he has any evidence to support it – it was rejected by Arve Kambe – but the rapporteur has not commented on it. The second is that in District Norway you don't have alternatives. You have to look at the world from a slightly different angle than just seeing those you meet at E18 from Westfold to Oslo. We also see this in the debate on four-wheeled cars. There is no luxury for those who live in Holmenkollen; in many parts of District Norway there is actually a necessity. That the debate has to be a little wider on these points, I think it is quite necessary. I was also a little surprised that Lundtegen does not expect to have to comment on the biodiesel case, when he goes out so wide and says that the government has an excellent position. He said in his second post that it was ‘unlucky, unfortunate, unfortunate’ – so ‘smiling’ became ‘unhappy, unfortunate, unfortunate’. It shows the extent to which people are lost in this political area. I can't believe you didn't realize that the Right actually did a lot with green taxes and also made a spin in its alternative state budget. We may not agree on all the measures. We have also made suggestions for a faster replacement of the car park. We would have kept the stability around biodiesel. There is no doubt that there would have been an impact on the issue of emissions in Norway. So I don't think you should sail so very high and dark here from the government. It's a challenge to do this. We all like that there should also be light out in most of the District Norway, and then we also have to have that issue with us in advance of the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e895	Ketil Solvik-Olsen attacked me and said that I said that the progress party was not interested in the emissions from the car. It was a misunderstanding, because of course the Progress Party is concerned with the emissions from the car. They are concerned about increasing them as much as possible by reducing fuel taxes as much as possible. But I did not include the Progress Party in the good company of those who are actually interested in using the fees to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The bulk of the progress made is to reduce any fuel charge, and there are price differences that are important in the question of phase-in of environmentally friendly fuels. If all the charges are lowered, it only has the effect of increasing greenhouse gas emissions. The interest of the Party in biodiesel is primarily justified in its interest in reducing all fuel charges. To Gunnar Gundersen, I have to say that I will get the reference from the Transport Economics Institute that says something about where it runs the most, and then Kambe can get his reference. But some of the reason I pointed out this is that the edges are very often used as an argument that the fuel charges must be low. Then there is reason to point out that there is also a terrible amount of driving around the cities, and there is a car that we can get alive by improving land savings, first and foremost, and then expanding alternatives in public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e904	It is possible to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. We live in a long country where there are long distances to get to the store etc. I live 7 km from the nearest store. I'll take an hour and three quarters if I go to the store and the same thing if I go back again. The alternative is to take a bus and leave at 08 in the morning to get to the store and go home with the bus that runs school children, at 16 o'clock. So I'm going to spend the whole day doing this. I think we have to assume that we live in a long country. That is why we want to have low car charges, which allows people to live where they want to live. Then we want an overall approach to car charges. We want a lower emission, but based on a faster replacement of the car fleet, so that you are constantly using the latest environmental technology that you can get hold of. This is not what you want in EN, and therefore we have much higher CO2 emissions in Norway than in other European countries that it is natural to compare with. The progressing party has managed to have several thoughts in its head at the same time. We want an overall approach, because it's the total emissions that are important, not to pick one and a fee and look at them. That is why we have put forward a proposal on this in our position today, that is to say to have an overall approach to the problem – which we would like to see in the context of the revised national budget – so that, over the rest of the year, we can make a comprehensive proposal based on the facts that emerge there and present it in the 2011 government budget. Instead of getting an investigation into the 2011 state budget, which has to rush through the Stortinget, we want to have time to do this. We have thus promoted this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e916	I understand that the Council of State itself sees that his government has a bad case in this debate, when he does not dare or want to answer any of the questions he has been challenged to, either by the Progress Party, by the Right or by the Christian People's Party. A very simple question that he should be able to answer is why the biodiesel case had to be drummed through in 2010 to provide a notified review of all taxes in 2011. So to the post from SV's representative, there are a number of logical flaws if there's to be a whole in what you're presenting; however, I didn't expect that: the representative says that the price differences are what is important for consumers when it comes to using alternative fuels. Yes! And then I ask him to reason a little in his own head: what happened to the price difference on biodiesel versus ordinary diesel as a result of the biodiesel tax? It was not exactly increasing the price difference – on the contrary. Then SV also has to explain how we can expect this alerted review of charges to help increase the price difference in favour of alternative fuels, when the premise given by the Government is that the polluter has to pay. Ergo: You can't further reduce the charges on alternative fuels, because they're already at zero, except on biodiesel. But if the polluter is going to pay, you have to start increasing the taxes on electric cars, on hydrogen cars, on biogas cars and on bioethanol cars. That means that the price difference is going to be smaller. You cannot rely on the Government’s logic that this should be proven neutral – because the level of fees should be on the city stage – go out and increase the other charges even more, with an even greater burden on fossil petrol and diesel. Ergo: The consequence of this review is that what SV says is the goal, is the opposite. One reduces this thing. The challenge here for the Government is to ensure that the industry is given predictability for some time to come, so that they dare to make investments both by using technology and developing technology, that they know that in ten years' time it will be subject to full taxation, but in a transitional phase they will nevertheless be able to benefit from capital investment, because they have a competitive advantage versus fossil fuels. That competitive advantage nobody dares to exploit today, because they see that the fuel E85 is completely free of charge, but is it tomorrow? No, if you look at biodiesel, it's not. Looking at the promises of small-scale energy policy, where it was allowed to participate in a transitional arrangement and invest now, the promises of the Government were also broken because they found it too well not to include it. Then I will also challenge the Council of State on a point in terms of the CO2 tax on diesel. Some have now said that the CO2 tax share needs to be increased, and then the costs of pollution and wear and tear will be reduced. Is there anything that the Council of State agrees with – if he goes along with the article? Here I also have to ask: what should the CO2 tax reflect, a desired amount from SV, or the real CO2 cost of driving a car? I don't know if I get any answers, because the Council of State doesn't follow, but there's a question here that the Council of State has to take into consideration in government, and it should also be the basis of the overall review that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e957	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e966	It is obvious that the Progress Party, with its proposal for a representative on tax exemptions for the treatment costs paid by employers and training cards, mobilised to find all counter-arguments by the Government. It is a pity that the allergy to private solutions and innovation comes before reflection. The finance minister and the government parties are concerned about, and I agree that the tax system should not be eroded. But they balance that with the system having to be the way it is, and there we don't agree. It's a fundamental asymmetry in our relation to health. We have free treatment of and full pay for sickness, but we live life as we want. It's my choice, my health, but the cost of business and society if it goes wrong. Fortunately, even for a red-green government, it would be unthinkable to introduce something so close to a management of people's private lives in terms of activity, but there should be some thinking about how employers and societies can be stimulated and mobilised to reduce costs. It is at the heart of the discussion about whether we can maintain our generous welfare system, that we are getting control of the health challenges. It is no surprise that the Right supports the proposers that expenditure on health insurance paid by employers and treatment costs should be exempt from employer’s taxes and taxes on persons. There is a clear ideological distinction here, and the red-green government removed in the 2006 budget by the Bondevik II government exemption in the 2003 budget. Today's government obviously prefers the growth of queues, the extension of sick leave, and the loss of the individual enterprise and employee's ability to influence their situation. But despite the government's resistance to private health insurance, it is also reported today that the sale of private health insurance explodes. Increasing queues and processing time produce this as a result. Even in the indigenous Red State, Hedmark, like the Minister of Finance and I come from, there is no group like Moelven that has any concerns about going out publicly with millions of savings due to health insurance of employees. The government's policy is a penalty for those employers who want to take an additional responsibility for their employees, and it is a double penalty for the sick person. The queues are being extended, and you do something active to find other solutions, you get additional taxes. Training and activity are a good prevention measure. Working life is becoming more and more sedentary and less physically active. Recent studies suggest that only 20 pst. the population meets the recommended minimum of 30 minutes of daily moderate activity of the authorities. Many people today live such an inactive life that they do not develop or maintain a physical capacity to cope with the stress of full-time work. It results in sick leave and poor quality of life. An example from reality: My home municipality, Åsnes, who also knows the finance minister well, decorated a few years ago the top of a little nice statistics, Norway's fattest. This resulted in attention from the municipality. They started a health project in Åsnes. Through professional guidance, the goal was to train at better conditions and easier everyday life. The results were remarkable. Sick leave for the group decreased from 27.51 p.m., according to Østlandingen on 1 December 2009. until 7.43 p.m., before the project started. It should be unnecessary to say that this also improved the quality of life for the individual. There's a lot to gain from looking at this with new eyes. The Minister of Finance and Government parties focus solely on not eroding the tax system and on not creating differences between those at work and those who are not. But what about the differences between those employed in companies with their own training facilities, instructors and offers, and those without? What about changing training and activity needs and desires based on social development and gender differences? The Minister of Finance and the Government parties are completely unaware of this when they choose to doubt everything that it is. I don't see this as a pay discussion. It is important to mobilise widely in order to solve the health and absenteeism problem. There is a need for innovation, guidance and competence. We believe that the issue deserves an overall review. I'll bring this up with the suggestions on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e985	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e988	Like any tax cuts proposal, you can also have some sympathy for this. Inactivity is a major challenge in our society. We have an ongoing increase in lifestyle diseases that can be greatly reduced by more physical activity — both in terms of physical effect and mental impact. This is also why large amounts of money are spent on the expenditure side of the State budget to stimulate physical activity — supporting sports and association activities or volunteering for others, building large, fine facilities that can be used, information and gymnasium. It's not like that, as the representative before me here gave the impression, that we're not doing anything to stimulate activity. The question is whether tax cuts are medicine to increase activity. All tax cuts have some effects. The obvious effect is, of course, to bottle up the Community funds. It is also done – with a very large amount – by introducing this proposal. But it also has some distribution effects that I think are very unfortunate. Firstly, the aim of the 1991 reform was to obtain a broad tax base and a lower marginal tax. The reason for that reform was that the tax system had been eroded so much over the years that there was a lot of injustice in the tax system. It was a tax system that promoted speculative solutions, and it was a tax system that had unfortunate distribution effects. This was cleared up with the reform in 1991. This proposal is an attack on that reform and that idea, as many of the tax cuts that are coming are. Secondly, as I said, the proposal also has some unfortunate distribution effects. It is such that the use of benefits in kind is greatly increased by increasing employee income. This means that this will primarily affect those with medium and high incomes. It itself has an unfortunate distribution effect, the government parties believe. It is also true that it does not hit the 600 000 people who are out of work, who may need the most stimulation of activity, and who would have the greatest health effect. There has also been a broad consensus that benefits in kind should be taxed in the usual way, to call it that. This would then be a breach with it. In addition, questions can be asked about the impact of this tax reduction proposal. Personally, I am a member of a training centre, but I guess I am the most support member – at least this winter. So it's not necessarily such that even if you introduce a tax exemption on, for example, the training card paid by the employer, you go and exercise for that reason. It is the fine thing about the system you have today that there is a collective system in which you carry out an activity. In this way, it could be discussed whether there is a system that should primarily promote training or whether there is another type of welfare measure. There is no difference between a large and a small enterprise, when collective welfare measures can also be introduced in small enterprises without costing a lot of money. You can go for a walk, and to the extent that you have the same cost of time. So there are opportunities to visualize solutions that the right-hand side often like to call ‘the freedom to choose’, even though we have a tax system that today. There are a number of reasons why government parties do not think this is a good enough idea to implement. We want to use the community funds in other ways to promote physical birth, because that's what we have to do. We have to put more pressure on getting more physical birth. It's the lifestyle disease that's the big challenge in our health care system. Life-style diseases are, to a large extent, the challenge in relation to the disease-related problem in working life. So that's where we agree, but we disagree on the means.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1011	I would like to start by drawing up what, in my opinion, is the most important thing in this case. The matter is not, as you would think, primarily about tax-free or tax-free goods, but about public health. Those of us who are concerned with the health status of our citizens know that there are increasing challenges related to, for example: overweight and inactivity. Therefore, there is good reason to ask questions about it at these times, where society faces major challenges of increasing sick leave, long-term health cows and increasing levels of lifestyle diseases, taxation of prevention is the answer to these challenges. I don’t think so, but I think the time has come to provide incentives for prevention — and above all for the benefit of the individual, which in turn will result in an advantage for the welfare community of Norway. Some may claim that this is the individual’s own problem. I totally disagree with that. It is society’s problem and challenge when sick leave increases and productivity is weakened as a result of people’s health status. Let me stress that this is a big and complex topic. There are no quick solutions, or quick fix, to these problems. However, society and politics need to facilitate increased activity and training. It is necessary to facilitate the possibility for employers to pursue a good policy towards their employees without being penalised by taxation. There are, as I see it, no good arguments that training cards paid by the employer should be taxed on the individual worker or employer. This measure is served by the public through lower sick leave and improved efficiency. When we know from investigations that only 20 pst. of the country’s population meets the recommended targets of authorities in a minimum of 30 minutes of moderate activity each day, and we also know that this creates new – and reinforces old – divisions in the Norwegian community. In particular, it is relevant for small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have their own tax-free training centre in their enterprise. We who are representatives of bigots or state councils can freely use the training room at Stortinget or in the department. Why should not everyone then be given this right to free practice? I welcome the good response from the government parties to why it is okay that we can train free of charge, while employees of small and medium-sized enterprises who are given a training card by their employer, thus must be taxed. As most people have noticed, I'm obviously one of those who could have used the free training facilities here in the house to a greater extent. But the same possibilities that I have then, I think others too should have. There are many good employers in this country who want to take extra good care of their employees. Fortunately, private business, not least small and medium-sized enterprises, is also characterised by their responsibilities in a socio-economic perspective. Greater efforts to speed up the return of workers to work, both through health insurance, the use of available capacity in the healthcare system and greater efforts at rehabilitation, will also bring great benefits to businesses through lower sick leave and better health status for their employees. Why employers and employees should be punished for having to obtain health insurance is incomprehensible to me. The answer is likely to be that many employers do not see their employees in endless, growing red-green health cows to get help with even the simplest operations and treatments in public health services. As I said, why this should be taxed on benefits and imposed on employers' contributions is incomprehensible to me. I record that the Minister of Finance believes that all the economic benefits of the employer should be taxed as labour income, and that even socio-economically desired activity must give up for tax purposes. I think it's sloppy that fiscal considerations weigh more than good public health. If employers are willing to pay for sickness costs to their employees, this will reduce public health cows and the waiting times will be reduced. This is simply a win-win situation. It makes no sense for this to be taxed, all the time it brings great savings to the public. This applies to both health insurance and training cards. There are some dividing lines that I can't go into. But I'm going to end by taking up the proposal that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted in the matter, and considering these as being referenced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1037	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1040	The representative Per Arne Olsen almost sounds like we're discussing additional taxation on the use of training centres. So he's saying we're punishing people using gyms. In order to take it in its ultimate consequence, I would say: Why should I be punished for working? Why should I have income tax at all? If this matter had been about physical health and not about a tax haven, I am absolutely sure that there would have been many other and more important measures we would now discuss than just giving tax credits for training cards. Otherwise, I agree with the representative Olsen that inactivity is not just an individual problem, but a social problem. It has not been a very long time since we were dealing here with a Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party on simplifications in the public sector form field. Now comes a proposal that will contribute to increased bureaucracy by introducing a specific rule, which, of course, like any other specific rules, can argue for a good cause. There has been a lot of work in recent years to simplify the tax system – the idea is that a broad tax base allows for low tax rates, the more exemptions we have, the higher the tax rate for those of us who have to pay. SV also wants to facilitate increased physical activity, but we don't think it's right to do it by eroding the tax system. It is not an objective to provide for more opportunities for tax adjustments to save taxes through benefits in kind that compensate for wages and salaries. People should be able to control their money and not be allowed to take out the pay in a training centre or in the form of employer-paid insurance. Therefore, it has been widely agreed that benefits in kind should be taxed at market value. As Breen's representative was in it, it's those with the best income that makes the most of the holes in the tax system. They are the ones with the highest marginal tax that makes the most of it, and they are the ones that get the most benefits in kind. This means that those with the lowest income have to cover their costs from already taxed income. Not to talk about how unfair it would be for those who are out of work, as unemployed or insured. A good employer can do much to promote physical activity among his employees. I have worked in places where we have had common training without access to either the gym or the trim room. I have also been employed in a place where the employer offered one hour a week for physical activity during working hours, even without having a gym — for example. that people went to work instead of taking a car. Someone took out this hour in a gym, but it was to a large extent those who were already users of such an offer. The opposition points to the discrimination of some major workplaces having their own trim, while others do not. We can always find out about this kind of injustice. The trims are different. Some people may be pissed at the fact that others get paid a company training card to a gym with a spa, while I only get a spinning wheel in the basement of the job. So our recommendation is not to go into tax laws for such benefits in kind. Public – state, county and municipality – must facilitate physical activity through sports halls and training facilities and, in particular, through the organisation of outdoor activities, which is the largest contributor in Norway in terms of physical activity. Very often, the tredemølla can be replaced by walking or running for a walk, and in addition, you actually get a natural experience. The proposal to provide tax relief for treatment insurance is a violation of the principle of tax reform and also of Norwegian health policy. It is an encouragement to privatization, where people in work are going to go ahead of others, and will focus away from the fact that it is the public that should be responsible for all people in this country getting a health service that is quality and at the right time. The representative of Gundersen is right that there is an ideological distinction here, where, in my opinion, the state should spend its money on giving a good health offer on its own account and not giving tax credits to private insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1066	The government parties have clear reasons for their position here. I'm just going to expand it a little bit on behalf of the Center Party. In the case of tax relief in the sense of exempting employers' taxes and personal taxes on private health insurance and the treatment of illness, the view of the Centre is that we have a chance that is extremely important to keep, namely a good public health service. Why do we have that scan, which is so important to keep? Yes, because health care should be good for everyone, regardless of whether or not a person participates in paid employment. It's a fundamental vision that lies at the heart of it, and I think it's a broad uprising in Norwegian society. The third point raised by the proposers is to remove the employer’s fee and personal tax for training cards. I agree that when joint training arrangements under the direction of the employer are given such a tax treatment that the taxpayer comes out favourably, the question of extending the training arrangements to private training arrangements is also raised by, for example, purchasing training cards for the employees. However, the boundary has to be set somewhere. For example, it is the strong enterprises and the strong trade unions that are operating schemes in which their employees or members receive an advantage over employees in smaller, weak enterprises and trade unions. I would like to say that the government might be more alert to going in such a direction because you are thus having an unfortunate side effect. In the view of the Centre Party, the boundary must go somewhere. What is our assessment of the reality of the proposal is that training and physical activity should be organised for most people through the instrument to support voluntary teams and associations. The voluntary teams and associations that engage and mobilise broad groups should receive, as the Government proposes, VAT refund on operating resources and also VAT refund on buildings and installations. In this way, we stimulate voluntary teams and associations to make even more positive offers to the majority of people, and thereby, business relations may not become so central in the future, but community ties will become stronger. It gives, according to the opinion of the Centre Party, a better social model than to link more and more closely to people's relationship with paid employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1079	From the Christian People's Party, I will just make some comments on the proposal. With regard to proposals Nos. 1 and No 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, which is going to exempt private health insurance from employer's taxes and personal taxes, we are not going to go into that right now. That seems to require a slightly more comprehensive assessment. However, with regard to the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party to exempt paid training cards from employer's fees and personal taxes, we support that, and I will provide a brief explanation for why. It is true that we proposed this in the context of the IA Agreement, that this should be an element of the IA Agreement. It didn't happen, and then we think it's reasonable, as the Progress Party has done before, to propose it independently of the IA agreement that is now signed. There is little doubt that inactivity is one of the greatest public health challenges of our time, and then we should also look at what can contribute to remedying that very thing. Here we have some experience of drawing from our neighbouring country, which has introduced the scheme proposed in proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Those experiences are positive. I also want to add in this context that the Ministry of Finance is now consulting a proposal on how to get the VAT rate of 8 pst. into this regime. This means that it should be neutralised even for those who have to pay VAT, that they should be deducted from the purchase of goods, etc. The training team is probably of a slightly different opinion. I'm not going to interfere in the dialogue you have with those affected by this VAT surcharge, but I just want to make it clear that I think this is something that will come eventually because it's so important in the context of public health. At other times, we have also seen that there is probably some disagreement between the Ministry of Finance and other departments about the extent to which one would actually use the tax system to build up under a policy that is otherwise in favour. I understand the Ministry of Finance's desire to touch very little with general arrangements, but in this situation I think that we all had earned to support this proposal, also because it penalises an injustice in today's system: it is the large companies that have the opportunity to offer this, who benefit from the scheme that is now in force, while the smaller companies that do not have training rooms, etc., do not have the same opportunity. That is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1094	Tax and tax policy is an area where there has traditionally been considerable disagreement between the government parties and the opposition, although the degree of disagreement tends to be overdramatic in debates around budgets and in election campaigns – especially in the rhetoric of the government parties. In any case, there has at least been some logic in the arguments of the Government and Government parties in most tax matters, so that what we have been left with is a factual disagreement about the use of money or the effect of tax and tax changes. But in this case, I really don't understand the logic of the government and government parties. The measure is not inhibited by the hastening back, but will punish financially those who are not lucky enough to get under the scheme, but who have an employer who gets them back faster under a very hollow argument, that it will have an unfortunate distribution effect. The only unfortunate distribution effect in today's system versus that proposed by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in this setting is the tax bill with which a worker who gets his treatment costs covered by his employer remains – despite the fact that the same employee saves the State for significant costs by returning to work more quickly. I remember when both present members of the Government and representatives of the government parties earlier argued that they were against taxes on disease, when addressed to a rather modest increase in the proportion of what the current Minister of Finance is doing – whether we should believe the leakages from Thorbjørnrud. But it is precisely the government and government parties that now run, which are taxes on sickness. If you are lucky enough to have an employer who has the finances – or has so much care for you – to pay for the costs related to the treatment of illness, so that you get back to work faster and thus contribute to increased value creation, increased tax revenue and reduced costs for the employer – and public health – you will be penalised financially for this by being taxed by the costs. There's taxes on sickness! For me and the left, this is not at stake. There is no one who wants to be sick, and there is definitely no one who wants to stand in line unnecessarily long to get treatment for his illness or injury. I agree that both one and two questions can be asked in the proposal on tax exemptions, for example. in the case of paid monthly tickets for public transport, even if it is environmentally appropriate, and, as in this case, in the case of paid training cards, even if it is health-related. This is obvious because it is an economic advantage for the employee who initially applies to everyone, but it is fortunate that not all of us need the employer to pay the costs of treatment related to illness in order to get us better and better at work. That it's an economic advantage is also a truth with many modifications. For someone who will have to be sick for six months instead of two months, it does not mean anything to the world financially, but it means a lot to the employer, and that means not least much to the government related to reduced tax revenues and increased social security payments. Had it even been so that anyone who wanted it had been helped by the Faster Back Order, there might have been some team in the argument from the Government and government parties. But it's not like that. The fact is that the queues are growing and that for some diseases, for example: Obesity — obesity is becoming an increasingly common problem — is a waiting time of several years in public health. We politicians in this room, and in the government, are meant to see the individual, the individual, and sometimes we as politicians should succeed in seeing the individuals affected by the legislation, and not staring at us blindly at the system. Unfortunately, it is just the opposite majority when they argue against tax exemptions for paid sickness treatment, on the grounds that this can give incentives to tax adjustments in the choice of form of remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1110	It is a fundamental line in fiscal policy that benefits gained from work are taxable. It is also central to a good tax system that taxable profit is as consistent as possible with actual income. The fact that an action in itself is socially desirable is not an argument for tax exemptions — and that is also contrary to what was the basic idea behind the 1992 tax reform. As pointed out by others here, the value of benefits in kind is also increasing with increasing income. Tax deductions on benefits in kind may therefore have adverse distributive consequences and contribute to countering other mechanisms in the tax system that have the effect of equalising income. Tax exemptions for grants for treatment costs and training cards may also lead to a significant sample surface area. In my view, the best way to respond to the sick is through the Raffere scheme. The aim of this scheme is to bring sick people back to work more quickly through reduced waiting time and faster treatment. The funds used may be used where they have the best impact on the sick person and not where the selection is left to the employer or to the individual’s economy. While there are many good arguments for increased physical activity in order to prevent disease, there should in itself be sufficient motivation for those who have the opportunity to set up schemes for paid training cards. Tax exemptions for the coverage of treatment costs and training cards will also not help those outside the labour market. It is the government’s view that the public contribution to public health should not be made through tax exemptions for employers’ grants to cover treatment costs or for training, but rather by facilitating a good public health offer by contributing to sport, youth work, preventive health work, etc. available to the whole population. Now I have been concerned with the more fiscal aspects of this proposal. But I want to add two things. It is such that labour is the primary capital of society. At the same time, it is also the main capital of the enterprise. What we do on the part of society to maintain and increase the value of this capital is to have a good health care, a good education system and general systems that enable us to develop and maintain the workforce. I think it is also important that an enterprise sees the value of investing in its own labour force, in line with investing in machines or other things that an enterprise needs. Because for every enterprise, today's labour force is the most important capital both today and in the future. Then it's nice, as was referred to by the case rapporteur, that an enterprise we know well invests in its own labour force in that way because it's profitable in itself, not necessarily because the state or society gives tax deductions for that investment. Therefore, investment in own labour should be weighed against the profitability of other investments made by the enterprise. That's the one. The second is that this case is about ownership. What I and you and everyone else can do to take care of our own health is to make sure that we stay in good shape, or in another way: it's a social responsibility that every citizen has to care for their health. To say it with a little sloppy glance: I've been training without tax deduction my whole life. In fact, I have become a parliamentary master on skis, but apart from that, I don't have any big sports tricks behind me. There are far greater merits to be referred to by the rapporteur. But the whole point is that training and in a way caring for one's own body and health should be a way of life for the individual. To put it this way: I pay with my happy annual card to get to the best ski runs in all of Norway, the area around Nybygda in the municipality of Ringsaker. It's a good investment where I get a lot back, and I get a lot of joy from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1134	I agree that people should train more, take ownership, etc. But it's like there's a part that doesn't. Then, on the part of the politicians, you have the opportunity to relieve this and increase the incentives for the individual. The Council of State said that it is a significant sample surface — well, significant? We asked that question to the Ministry of Finance in connection with our alternative state budget in 2007. Then the total cost, that is, the proceeds, was 160 million. NOK up to NOK 3000 paid by the employer. But also the government parties' representatives say that this is not a zero sum game. It's actually an advantage for the state. The revenue will exceed the cost. Then there may be a significant sample surface in the first year. But what about years two, three, four and five, if the income is higher than the cost? Has the department considered it, or is it just claims being made?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1141	It's quite possible to do an arithmetic that says that a deduction gives more return over time. Of course, 160 million. kr – or whatever it is – is a significant proceeds. But what's really the most important argument about tax technology is that if you still include in the tax system different deduction schemes for different good social purposes, you'll eventually get a tax system that becomes quite unwieldy. And it'll break with the logic that's in the tax system. I think that any finance minister, both me and those who have to come in the future, will be very concerned about having a tax system with the widest possible tax base and the lowest possible deduction regimes, which will make it possible to have the lowest possible tax rate in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1146	We are constantly hearing that the value of benefits in kind is increasing with wages. It's a line of conflict in which the red-greens are happy. But I would rather say that the value of the kind of benefits in kind is equally likely to increase according to the size of the enterprise, the economic carrying capacity and the freedom of action, and in and of course also attitudes to management. It should be a lot more problematic. Enterprises that invest in their own training rooms are bought in trainers who come to work — put in a number of measures — while smaller enterprises, and most other enterprises, do not have access to that kind of benefits in kind. There's a difference that I don't hear that the government parties address at all, and that for me is a pretty big cross of thought, because it's social resource use -- it's basically empty training spaces all the time. There are also major differences. Why don't you answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1151	I don't think it's as simple as saying that big businesses are better than smaller companies to provide the workforce. I think we can find many good examples of small and medium-sized enterprises that are very conscious of caring for the health of the workers. Indeed, today’s tax system opens up to any employer through joint welfare measures such as: may pay the costs of training, rental halls, equipment, etc. as a joint action for the workforce. So I don't think it's as simple as saying that the big ones are better than the little ones. There may be examples of the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1156	In the ministry, what is socio-economically profitable and what is not socio-economically profitable. I therefore assume that the Minister of Finance agrees that it is socio-economically profitable for an employer to pay costs related to the treatment of a disease for one of his employees in order to get him out of work more quickly from sickness and from hospital queues and back to work. What measures will the Minister of Finance take to ensure that more employers do this, which is profitable both for the employer, for the employee and for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1161	As I said in my post, I think the order of the Faster Back is a good order. It has its origin in the agreement on an inclusive working life, and it will be natural for the Government to build up under that scheme. The other thing we should and can have is a health care system that provides better treatment, faster treatment, and also works to reduce the number of queues, although it is extremely difficult, because as the supply increases, so does the need. But first of all, I want to focus more on what can be called joint action, rather than proposing measures that contribute more to the privatisation of the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1166	I don't think the finance minister can get away with just dismissing it by saying that there's no difference between the larger and the smaller companies. The point is that there is a relatively irrational use of resources for very many people to make that kind of investment, and then you can't go to, among other things. the subsidisation of training cards and such things. But the reason why the Right is also skeptical about that proposal and rather suggests that we take a look here is that this is quite complicated. After all, the finance minister himself said that he was training without any tax incentives. So do I, and there's a lot of things that do. But there's an awful lot of people who don't, and that's what's the problem. Then you should be able to take a review and look at how we actually manage to get to those who don't. There's a larger and larger group that doesn't, and the issue is getting more and more topical. So why don't you agree to take a proper review that isn't involved in eroding the tax system, but could create a proper and well-thought-out policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1173	It was not in my response to the previous line from Gunnar Gundersen that the small and medium-sized enterprises had to build their own training facilities, but the tax system opens up so that one can rent premises with others, or out in the city, to have an offer for their employees. Otherwise, the representative touches Gundersen on an important question: how should a few motivated people train and take better care of their health? I think that then one has to approach with a slightly wider range of instruments than all the time to point out that it is the tax incentive that is the triggering factor. However, prevention of health work is important, and it is an important part of the cooperation reform that is now gradually being addressed in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1178	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1184	In danger of extending the debate unnecessarily, I would like to talk a little bit about what is the background to the legislation we have today, for it was the Council of State, among other things. Busy. In Equation-ABC it says: «The benefit in the form of welfare measures in employment is taxable income of the employee. Exemption from the tax obligation shall apply if the measure consists of a performance in kind and is considered to be reasonable welfare measures.’;» Further: ‘ Welfare measures within the meaning of the Tax Code are measures which: address the persons related to the enterprise/company and intend to increase the well-being and coherence of the workplace and related thereto, most often in the form of joint arrangements.’;» So this right over here is defined in the ABC. For example, it would be a reasonable welfare measure if the employer himself intervened or rented his own trim for the employees. Reasonable welfare measures do not include personal membership of a health studio or training centre paid by the employer. The consequence of current tax legislation is that enterprises can circumvent tax laws by purchasing a certain number of impersonal training cards that employees can use for training. It qualifies under the law. However, the impersonal card system does not work in practice, because it excludes those who need it the most, because of course the most eager ones take the cards. In addition, the scheme prevents the possibility of personal follow-up by training centres, which is essential for improving public health. The training tax also discriminates against large and small enterprises, as opposed to what the Council of State points out, because larger enterprises have far more training spaces in the workplace – including the Stortingen, so that we can enjoy it. Today’s legislation can also be considered to be particularly favourable to male workers, because non-taxable occupational sport measures are dominated by the male employees of the enterprises. So maybe today's system is a little bit old-fashioned. Once upon a time, there was human dominance in the workplaces around it. It is no longer to the same extent, and then it may be natural to also facilitate activities that women in particular want to take advantage of. There are relatively few women who are involved in corporate football and corporate bowling and other things, for which there are, of course, tax exemptions under the legislation, so maybe you should also look at this in that perspective. The system already exists in social-democratic Sweden – when it was introduced, Sweden was social-democratic. This is a tax exemption of up to NOK 6000 for training cards, i.e. twice as much as the Progress Party included in its 2007 alternative budget. It's been successful in Sweden, and there's no one over there talking about eroding the tax system and yelling and carrying for it. No, it works over there, and then you might be able to go to Sweden and see if there's anything we could copy from there. Sweden should be a leading country for social-democratic Norway in many contexts, so you can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2591]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1227	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1236	The Financial Committee shall present an opinion on proposals by representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Ulf Leirstein and Ketil Solvik-Olsen to empower the Government to reduce VAT on electricity and electricity in periods of exceptionally high electricity prices. As the rapporteur, I will try to go through the matter in a neutral way and describe the intentions and proposals of the representatives, and comment on it, but we in the Right, together with the majority of the committee, want to vote against the proposal. The right considers that the current challenges we have today are not a national power crisis due to a lack of capacity in relation to production, but to a number of other things, including foreign problems. The right, together with the Progress Party and other parties, has in recent years promoted a number of proposals that we believe would help both to reduce the consequences of the situation we are in, and also to avoid such things occurring in the future. Among other things, the Right promoted a proposal at the beginning of March to allow the Government to start up the mobile gas power plants both on the Auverra and the Tent Credits despite the fact that the guidelines do not open up to it right now. A rather unanimous opposition on Stortinget has been quite critical of the government's work on green certificates. I'll almost say it so strongly that the government over a long time has sold out to get these certificates in place. Solvik-Olsen's proposal for small-scale power plants a few weeks ago, on which the Right is also involved, is a good example of the fact that people in District Norway who want to contribute to producing new, environmentally friendly electricity do not get the dragon aid that the State has claimed they should receive. It's such things the right could think of doing something with. That being said, it is clear that we need to strengthen the transmission system, both abroad and domestically between the regions, where we have problems. Middle Norway has some problems, parts of Hordaland and Rogaland will be able to get it in the future, so here it's important to take hold. Now, however, the proposal that we are dealing with today does not cover the long-term aspects, but only urgently seeks to eliminate VAT and reduce the electricity charge. There are proposals the Stortinget has previously rejected, and the Right believes that making power prices cheaper for everyone in such a situation will rather increase the problem than solve it. That's why the Right has a completely different approach to this, that's a model from when the Bondevik II government had a similar challenge. The state collects more than 55 billion of electricity and VAT. What the right has said is that we could imagine protecting those who need it the most, those who are now struggling to pay the power bill, those who are horrifying to the next month when the power bill comes. How are we going to be able to find a targeted, simple and fast solution so that we can help them? Those who today receive housing support from the state, as well as from municipalities and the House Bank, have already been through the realization that they need financial assistance for housing costs. In other words, they have a bad economy, and they have a high risk of having payment problems as power prices increase. That's why I want to address the proposal that the Right has promoted together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, that we want to give the Government the power to use some of the extra crowns that you get into fees to help those who need it the most. It is clear that for a single mother or a minimum pensioner who now meets the spring with quite a deficit in the budget, because there are thousands of dollars going out to power, the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left would be a handshake. Although the government parties in their comments stated that a general increase in housing aid had been made, and that support for electricity costs had been increased by approx. $1,200, so you're going to spend $100 per month. month(s) Very little, and I would like to ask the government parties and also the finance minister to respond to whether they are willing to look at this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1257	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1260	First, a comment on the minority proposal put forward by the rapporteur, from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on housing support. The majority of the committee, the government parties, also have a note in the vote on the housing aid scheme, which has been strengthened in recent years. In 2009, a new housing aid scheme was put in place to increase payments for housing aid by an estimated amount of more than DKK 1 billion when the scheme was fully phased in 2012. In the context of the new housing aid scheme, aid for housing heating costs increased by an average of NOK 1000-1500 per year. years for all persons with old-age, invalidity and survivors' pensions who do not receive this expenditure covered by rent or common costs. So this is an area the government has invested heavily in. Then to the main content of the proposal for a representative. I agree with the rapporteur that the proposal has good intentions. High electricity prices are a challenge for many. Energy production, security of supply and good network policy are essential for the safety of systems and for price levels. However, we are in agreement with the rapporteur on the conclusion: that the proposal is not adopted. Because we believe that the reduction in the electricity charge is not an effective and appropriate instrument when prices are linked to the market value of electricity given to the supply and demand. As the Minister of Finance writes in his letter to the Committee: ‘The reduced level of taxation therefore primarily gives an income transfer from the country to the power producers and not to the consumers.’ We therefore do not believe, on the part of the government parties, that the proposal will give the desired effect or be appropriate in relation to its purpose and therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1274	Rarely has a meeting such as the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference has led to climate change so quickly. Norway has experienced a cold period outside the normal range — or maybe that's exactly what it is, which is normal temperature fluctuations. In any case, the low temperature and sky-high taxes to the state – together with faulty energy policies over many years – have led to electricity bills being received by the population at a level they have never experienced before. What's worrying is that the Norwegian state is one of the actors that makes sure that the bill increases far more than it should. This has its background in the fees charged to customers. The state takes 26.6 pst. the electricity bill in fees, and the average consumer entering into a one-year electricity contract with the current market price on 2 March 2010, will have to pay the State close to NOK 9 000 in fees, according to NRK Hordaland. It is a significant sum for a minimum pensioner and people with poor advice – such as the red-green government says they are so concerned about. This is a good example of the government’s tax policy helping people to get bad advice. But it won't stop there. A look-up in NRK Nordland says: ‘A large increase in the number of victims of debt since the New Year. Expensive consumption loans and high electricity bills are some of the reasons why people are now asking NAV for help. [[...]] In the last few weeks, people who have problems paying the electricity bills have also come to NAV.’ Only in Bodø are 44 new victims receiving financial advice, including: due to the high electricity prices. Over many years, the majority of the population of Great Britain has stopped further expansion of power plants around the country. This has led to underproduction of electricity and pressure on prices. In addition, Norway has a sky-high level of electricity charges, which imposes additional burdens on the population. This in a country that should have the opportunity to flood with cheap renewable, non-polluting power — if it had led the right and long-term policies in this area. Norway produces largely renewable hydropower, as everyone wants. Although we do, this force is imposed on some of the highest taxes and charges in Europe. A look-up in the NRK on 23 February reads under the heading ‘Norway can get the most expensive electricity in Europe’: ‘In Oslo, the spot price for a while yesterday was higher than twice that of Italy, the traditionally most expensive stream country in Europe.’ We look up in the NRK on 17 March that the state collects NOK 55 billion in electricity charges. This is a sharp increase from the years before – yes, in fact, an increase in taxes and charges of DKK 10 billion, corresponding to an increase of 20 pst. Some people have to pay for this. These ‘some’ are the population. There have been several headlines in the media that show that many have major problems paying the sky-high power bills. The electricity companies have been out and encouraged people to make contact, so that they can pay the bill over time. But what does it do, when a new, sky-high bill from the power supplier ends up in the mailbox before the first one is paid? A lot of people want to end up as customers at a debt collection agency – with the endorsements that are there. This is, therefore, the State's participation in, through the level of taxes and taxes decided by the Storting! It is amazing that the Right approach is that we first have to charge electricity prices so high that we then have to subsidise the population through housing support, so that they avoid collection requirements. This winter has been special in many ways: low temperatures, irregular power generation in Sweden, lack of investment in new power plants in Norway, etc. All of this, together with high charges, has led to high electricity bills for customers. We as a magnification can do only one thing in the short term to help the population in this situation: reduce the charge on electricity, i.e. the electricity and value added tax. That is also the proposal of the Progress Party. I hear in the debate that there is little chance of adopting such a proposal. I take note of that, but in any case, I take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1312	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1315	The high electricity prices in winter show that the market is not very suitable to distribute such a necessity as electricity supply. Market faith has made us not to steer energy policy by political objectives. If the bread price had risen 20 times almost overnight, most would have agreed that it had not been a functioning market, and that it should be abolished. In terms of the electricity price, the price peaks came while the cold was at worst, and the option for many was just one – namely, to freeze. The free market poses problems for many people, and it is tragic. The only point of light in this case is that the market's most intense spokesman, the Progress Party, has discovered that the market is not working. After all, the level of taxation on electricity is not the problem in Norway. It's the changes in the market. Now the Progress Party will show action, but it is a pity that what they propose is not working. In its opinion, the Ministry of Finance points out that a VAT exemption is likely to only increase the profits of electricity producers and not benefit the customer. Yes, in fact, for energy-intensive industries, the price may rise. This, in addition to administrative costs, makes the proposal simply bad. In the opinion of the SV, the energy law introduced some of the problem is released, and we should therefore look into whether changes should be made to the Energy Act. It costs a lot of money to add cables to the cross-border transmission of electricity — and to the rest of the world. Not only does it lead to increased consumer spending. In fact, this also leads to a huge loss of energy. The lake cable to the Netherlands alone provides a grid loss equivalent to the electricity consumption of 10000 households. Now, the solution is not to have transmission cables. But the fact that electricity is sent across and across just to always sell it at the highest price actually contributes to the lack of energy. Transfer cables can help to balance the price. But in practice they can also help to increase prices. While electricity prices were at peak in mid-Norway, Norway was still a net exporter of electricity. The question is whether there should be no regulation, so that energy companies are given greater responsibility for delivering electricity at stable prices. It costs NOK 6.5 billion to build a new cable from Inner Sogn to More. Renewable energy and energy savings can be done for such an amount, because the solution is to help households become less dependent on electricity for heating. It means investing in bioenergy, district heating and energy savings. A heat pump in each home in More and Romesdal would reduce the consumption of electricity for households in the district by a quarter. It is therefore important to have Enova, which has helped to launch environmentally friendly energy projects corresponding to 11.6 TWh by 2008. It actually corresponds to an energy of about 10 pst. total electricity consumption in Norway in a year. So Enova should be further strengthened. An addition of one or two ears to the network tariff could be an important contribution to achieving this – an investment that, in the next round, would provide electricity customers with lower and, above all, more stable prices. In addition, we should have a system of so-called white certificates, a system that obliges energy companies to implement energy saving measures by their customers. Then SV will have an English-style scheme, where at least half of the measures will be earmarked for low-income families. It is a system that will also stimulate the market for environmental technologies in the electrical and construction sector. When it comes to protecting those who are now worst off, I agree with what has been said before, that we have to put our trust in housing support and in Nav, while we should think in the long term about how to make ourselves less dependent on electricity for heating.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1336	Today’s proposal and debate are linked to a symptom – it is linked to a serious weakness in how we have organised our electricity supply. There is no one, as far as I know, who has voted for a system that would involve the weaknesses that have emerged this winter. We have established a market as seemingly acting as any other market, and then have failed to look at the physical assumptions that de facto exist and that hinder the functioning of the market. Some of the physical assumptions I'm talking about are simply necessary capacity to transport electricity from one point to another point. Power knows we're moving just like water -- it's moving from the source to the nearest consumer. So when the source and the nearest consumer are located so that they cannot be supplied from elsewhere, you get a completely abnormal situation. You will be in short supply and thus a price development that does not belong anywhere at home, and which the general consumer cannot relate to either, because he is not constantly informed about what is the price he has to pay. That's the system today. That's why it's time to take up this discussion. But what is then the central thing is, just as we have discussed earlier, to get a whole and predictability, to bring in the correction of the market forces, on which SV's spokesman was involved, to change the system, to ensure that it is also a Norwegian political responsibility to ensure that the advantage we have with a lot of renewable energy is an area advantage that should also dominate the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian population. I just want to say that the preventive measures to correct the outstanding, obvious weaknesses that have now come are so strong that the Government has very little time to do something here, so that this does not continue, and to show it in concrete actions. But it will cost money, and it will also cost that some strong forces behind the reform that we are now seeing in full flower must go back on what one has said before, and see that we need to reorganize the electricity market, so that as a basic asset it has a price that is quite different from a stable and predictable level from what we now experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1347	There are several reasons for the high electricity prices we have seen in winter – at least in some periods in winter – and this has not least its cause in winter itself, while one has now faced a situation where important parts of Swedish nuclear power production have been out of operation. There is no doubt that it has caused a load on many people that they have had such high power prices in some periods. I don't think tax reductions are an answer to the challenges we've seen. The main issues are capacity-related challenges, not least on the transmission system. So I am quite certain that increased investments in power generation and transmission capacity will contribute to a more flexible and robust power system that will also provide evener prices between different regions. It is also important to stress that large parts of the industry do not primarily pay electricity charges, and they are then little covered by a proposal for a general reduction in electricity charges. I have a very strong understanding that high electricity prices can be a burden and a burden for many households with a pressurised economy. At the same time, however, I believe that reducing taxes on electricity is a little effective and in many cases also a small, accurate tool to facilitate the situation for households affected by high electricity prices. It is such that a reduction in charges — which could have been applicable in winter — does not necessarily lead to a reduction in the electricity price to consumers. This is due to the fact that, in a situation of low power and high utilisation of import opportunities, lower charges to consumers may also exert pressure on the price of electricity itself. At the same time, a general reduction in charges has dubious distribution effects because a general reduction in the levy cannot be confined to a specific group of the population, such as the United Kingdom. pensioners or people with low incomes. A general reduction in the level of the levy will therefore be of little focus to help vulnerable groups. This is the way it is in other areas, that with increasing income, electricity consumption is also increasing. Continuously, households with high incomes consume more than those with low incomes. This means that a general tax reduction could have a distorted distribution effect. Then I believe that the well-established housing support system we have, as the representative Tegen pointed out, is a much more accurate tool to reach those who have the biggest problems with paying their electricity bill. As the representative Tegen also pointed out, the housing aid scheme has been significantly strengthened recently. Then I think we will experience over time that the price of electricity will fluctuate – it is a bit in the nature of the matter. As consumers, we will be exposed to fluctuating market prices. Of course, as consumers, we can to some extent guard against it by entering into other types of contracts with the electricity supplier and being more active in the electricity market. Over time, however, enough measures can strengthen security of supply is the most important thing we can do. It means expanding and strengthening the transmission system, although it is often associated with issues with significant political explosiveity, in order to use such an expression. It's refurbishing the power plants. It is a commitment to energy savings. It is to contribute to a switch from electricity to bio-heat in case of heating, e.g. It's using Enova actively, as we've done lately. This government has significantly increased its efforts through Enova. So I think one over time will also see new technological solutions between the power supplier and the customer, which make it much more possible for the individual customer to control his power consumption and in a way to adjust the power consumption after fluctuations in delivery, for example. 24 hours a day. So there's a lot of measures that you can use here, and I think the long-term measures are the ones that will work best to get a smoother and better functioning power market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1364	Then we open the door for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1368	The Council of State went through various reasons why the electricity price is currently high in Norway. One reason is that less production has been produced in Sweden. That, of course, is quite correct. Another reason, of course, is that there has been a lack of development in Norway for a long, long time. One reason is the electricity charge. There's certainly a lot of reasons for that. But it doesn't boil down to anything but that there's someone who's hit by it, and that's what's our main point of view. The ones that are hit by this are the ones that have the least. It actually shows how unsocial charges are, because they are frameworks without taking social considerations into account. They all hit, no matter who they are. So let's see. That's secondary to why they're coming. The starting point must be that we solve this problem, and we can do that in the short term by lowering the fee. In the long term, we can do it by expanding it. Will the Council of State take the initiative to increase the rate of expansion in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1377	First, an actual statement: in the case of charges, the electricity charge is independent of the total price. It's a fixed ear per. kWh, so the electricity charge depends on the consumption you have. So it's essentially the value added tax that changes at increasing power prices. What was my point is that a general reduction in fees is not very accurate. It has major administrative effects, and that is one of the reasons why we choose to point out housing support as a more appropriate and accurate tool. In terms of more power policy assessments, I think I have to leave it to the oil and energy minister. But I would also like to point out what I said at the end of my post about various measures that are possible to strengthen both the security of supply and power generation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1386	Now the Right has made a proposal to just increase the housing support for those who need it the most in order to be able to pay the electricity bill. What the Minister of Finance does, both in his speech, by referring to the comments of Tegen and in the reply to Svendsen here now, is once again to refer to the housing aid. Well, now the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have served a line-up to the Finance Minister who is both unbureaucratic and quick and can be withdrawn again. The government can use some of the few heads that come in now to assist those who need it the most. So this is the world of reality for many small children's families and for many older people who have a grudge and who are horrifying; people who have paid the previous electricity bill, and who are horrifying at the next bill that comes. Will the Council of State, which he has now opened up to, do anything with the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1395	With regard to proposals which have more budgetary implications, I must point to the revised national budget and the possibilities available to you through the ordinary budgetary procedure. Otherwise, I find that there is no majority in the Storting for the proposal that has been put forward by the Right, and of course I will deal with what will be the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1402	Is the representative of Solvik-Olsen asking for a line? - Here you go. It is a hint to the representatives that when state councils make statements, they are then trying to draw, as if they were asking for a line. There might be a little bit of ambiguity here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1407	I raised a finger. It thought I was in the post, for two fingers are in the line, but fine. The Council of State, and not least the representative of the SV, says that a reduction in fees is likely to increase the profits of power producers and that consumers will not enjoy this. Now, the figures that the Council itself has presented to the Committee show that 15 pst. the power turnover in the Nordic region takes place on the Nord Pool Stock Exchange and that the proportion of the Norwegian electricity charge is 25 pst. Ergo: The proposal we are talking about here affects the consumption of 3.75 pst. of the market. Really believe the Council of State that 3.75 p.m. the market may give rise to such an outcome that the removal of VAT will give rise to 25 pst. the increase in the market price?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1414	Of course, it is difficult to have completely non-slip perceptions about it. But what was my point is that we have some experience of generally reducing taxes to the state in the context of a hope of bringing down the producer price. It is not always directly passed through at the producer price. I think that some of the same thing will apply in relation to the price of electricity, especially because much of the price increase is due to the shortage of electricity in the market. But it's not possible to make any exact calculations on this, and I don't want to try it in a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1419	I think that's an interesting answer, because in the public debate, the government parties have been very clear about what would be the consequence of a tax reduction. It would be that consumers did not enjoy this, while producers, who are state-owned and municipal in Norway, would get the full benefit. Here the council of State in Stortinget says he can't do any calculations on that, and he won't take it up in a line change. Obviously, someone must have assumed this when, from the government parties in the debate, you've gone out so much of a bassoon. Does not the Council of State think that his colleagues have acted unfairly in the debate, when they make such blatant claims, which he himself does not want to try to quantify? So it's going to be 15 pst. of the market that is in North Pool, and a quarter of it again that will be affected that this price item here. Then the Council of State should also consider the price elasticity of electricity, which is usually something quite different than for normal luxury goods, where a small price change can give a huge impact. Statistics show that large price changes in electricity give very small results, because this is essential and not a luxury product.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1426	I have to refer to the answer I gave instead, and so far to my post. It is enough, at least from my point of view, to assess that it is not necessarily such that if you reduce the VAT, the manufacturer would experience a decrease in the price accordingly. It is probably related to what I said: when there is a shortage of a good and there is a high use of the import option, a lower charge could also help to push the producer prices up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1431	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1436	What made me take the floor was SV's comments that the market is not working. I have to complain and say that when SV makes an analysis about the market, I hear very poorly after. It's said that it's because the market doesn't work, that the electricity price is as high as it is today. That's completely wrong. It is precisely the market that works. Because, of course, when you obstruct access to a market, the price increases. This means that there is a majority here on the Stortinget that, through political decisions, has strangled the entrance to power in the market. In other words, they have not decided to expand the reserves in Norway, which would have increased access to electricity. Then the market would have automatically made sure that the price went down. So it's not the market that makes sure it's high price. It is political decisions that ensure that there is a high price, because the supply of electricity has been cut, and we have sky-high charges in this country in terms of electricity. The council also said that electricity was a scarce asset. But it's precisely because of political decisions that it's a trifle. The representative from SV had a subtle review, that one would not accept that the bread prices increased by 20 pst. Then you would have done something about this. But I can tell you why the bread prices don't increase by 20 pst. This is because the Storting has not made a decision that production should be smaller. If the Storting had decided that it would be produced just so and so much bread, the market would have made sure that the price increased. But it is not the market that has done it. It's a decision in Stortinget that's done it. That's exactly what's happened when it comes to power supply. I think it's the Stortinget and the decisions that have been made here, which must primarily take responsibility for having a sky-high electricity price in this country. I hope that in the future, Stortinget will take over that we have reserves to expand in terms of hydropower throughout this country. It is community that stands ready and wants hydropower expansion in its own municipality. But the Storting has decided not to do it. The Melfjord plants in the Nordic countries and the Wefsna in the Nordic countries are two examples of local initiative and a desire for development among the population, while the Stortinget is setting foot down. It means less power into the grid and higher price. This is how a market works. I recommend SV to take a course on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1446	I think former St. Paul Chaffey took a course in economics, but it had consequences for his further career. SV has marked its take-off in this hall. It also has the Center Party through its posts, while the Workers' Party has demonstrated its reluctance to the power customers. Both the main focus of the SV and the Central Party is that the market has failed. It says the two parties who have been in government for four and a half years, and who have a head of government who, in the Great Britain Question Time on March 3, stated that there is hardly any industry in Norway that is more politically regulated than just the power industry. Both on the owner's side, on the project page and on the website, state and municipalities control everything. The private entry is very small. You owe it to the market as if there are private capitalist forces that are the cause, while in fact there are one's own party books that you should start looking at. Then I also register that the representative from SV says that the consequence of this must be to evaluate the Energy Act. It's a little arrogant on my part to welcome the Stortinget, sir. Vice-Responsor! These have been talking about red-green parts for four and a half years, and they did in the last period. So if someone is going to evaluate the Energy Act, it has to be a different government than the one that just did it. Then it is used as an argument here that if you do something about the fees, it will automatically increase the profits of the power producers, it will not benefit the customers. As I pointed out in the reply, where the Council of State was responsible for the response, there is a very small proportion of the Nordic market that will be affected by a change in electricity charges. It represents 3.75 pst. It's very small. I have no faith that the power market will provide price signals to compensate for any reduction in the charges, especially when it is known that the high electricity prices have already made people sit and freeze today, those who have poor advice, and who are the most responsive to the response on the power side. You know it's very few – it's 0.2 pst. – by customers in Norway who have hourly metering on their power consumption. Ergo: If you turn off the current in the days that the power price is over 10 kroner, you don't avoid being charged to that 10 crown, because the power companies only take an average calculation of what you've used that month, and you assume that your consumption is equal to everybody else's. So if you cut the power consumption two days in total and use 10 pst. less than that month, the consumption still becomes 90 pst. of normal consumption when electricity prices are high. You don't have any incentives to save. You don't have the share on the Nord Pool stock exchange that makes this a rash. Ergo: The current customers will be able to enjoy this. Then someone says that this is not accurate enough because it can actually be an advantage for others than for the poorest. For me, that's not a problem. When the state collects NOK 10 billion more in fees than was foreseen, I think we should give it back to ordinary people, not just to the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1459	The Progress Party says that the power sector is governed by ownership and other regulatory mechanisms. Yeah, that's right, that's right. At the same time, it is also regulated in other areas. So the market works as described by the Progress Party, namely that you get a situation where the supply is much less than the demand. Thus, this does not work in the so-called ‘throughline’ market. When I took the word, it was to say that it does not seem that SV will give the Progress Party a course on the bread price, but I may have some assumptions for that. When there is too little grain – bread grain – in Norway we have a system of which the Progress Party is a great opponent, namely the maximum price of bread grain. Fortunately, this is a system that we have had in good and bad times. So it is not allowed to take the market price for bread grain when there is too little bread grain. It is a restriction imposed on the Norwegian market for cereals. Why is that maximum price put there? Yes, because one was supposed to protect consumers while ensuring the stability of the manufacturers in the system. So when there is little bread grain on the international market, we do not get these market fluctuations in Norway – and thank you and thank you for that. In this area, we have a regulated market economy system because bread cereals are a basic good. It might be interesting to hear why the Progress Party does not want to ensure that basic electricity also has such limitations, so that the sadness of market forces in relation to key goods and key products that every consumer needs in situations, regardless of his income.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1473	It's almost with a little pleasure I'm sitting and hearing Per Olaf Lundtigen stand here and talk, who himself sits in a government constellation, but blames the Progress Party for high power prices during this government. If the Central Party thought that their solutions were actually the solution, why has not the Government already implemented the changes that had to be made? You've been sitting for four and a half years, and you've had all the rights to make changes in line with what Lundtigen himself wants. It hasn't been done. The evaluation carried out by the Government and submitted the Stortinget in the previous period, so that the system is quite good. So there should have been some changes – I shouldn't sketch them – but the government proposed no significant changes to the system. Then I find it quite strange that the government parties are standing here and saying that the system is wrong. I challenge Lundtigen to be concrete on what his government will do for the next four years to change this. I have today sent a letter to the State Council, Terje Riis-Johansen, asking him to present the NVE's investigation of the power market to the Stortinget. I hope and will assume that Lundtigen's words here mean that it will happen, and that we will not even get a lot of promises from the red-green parties that action plans will come in the east, west, north and south, without anything being presented to the Stortinget. Thus, almost one case of importance has not been submitted in the power sector to which the Storting has had to deal. Then, once again, I show that Prime Minister Stoltenberg – the head of the government of Lundteigen – has said in this Chamber that the power market is regulated. When the market does not work and you get sky-high electricity prices, is it capitalism or the regulatory capacity of politicians that fails? The main challenge in the power sector today is that there are major obstacles to the creation of new power plants. Yes, new power plants are being built, but the potential realized must be much greater if we are to get the balance we want. We're going to remember that anyone who wants to build a power plant has to have a concession. But what we have seen is that with regard to our best renewable energy potential, hydropower, today's head of government has said that the time for new, large hydropower deployments is over – a significant regulation of the sector. On the wind side, the lack of framework conditions has caused many of the projects submitted to be unrealised, which the power industry can also confirm. On the gas power side in central Norway, which is the most affected, four gas power plants have been set up under this government. Three of them have been refused, and the fourth has received approval, but with framework conditions that make it technologically impossible to build, because they require CO2 cleaning at start-up. Then one cannot come and say that it is the power market as such that fails, when there are political decisions that make it impossible to improve the supply side of this power market. And that's precisely why, precisely because it's a political crisis we're experiencing now – for which the power customers have so far paid DKK 10 billion in extra charges – we should make sure that we give some of that money back to the power consumers, so that we show some sympathy for having suffered under poor political energy policies for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1487	Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1490	It was to the representative Lundtegen, who had a review of the bread prices and the supply of cereals and the maximum price. I understand that Lundtigen wants a maximum price on electricity. Then I do not understand why it has not been proposed in the years he has been sitting on Stortinget – he has not. Instead of limiting the supply of cereals or electricity, which we are talking about today, the Progress Party wants to increase the supply of electricity by expanding power plants. Then we don't need to implement communist and socialist solutions as the maximum price. It is amazing now to experience the district party of the Center Party, which otherwise listens to everything that comes from District Norway, and believes that everything that is adopted locally is the best. Now, most power companies and network companies are owned by local operators, and local authorities around this country are those who are involved in setting these prices, or who can at least do something with them. You don't. The same applies to expansion. Local players want to expand, but the Senterpartiet on Stortinget is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2592]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1515	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1524	The financial crisis that hit the world in the autumn of 2008 and beyond 2009 had major consequences in many places. There is no doubt that countries where the financial industry accounts for a large proportion of the economy were particularly hard hit. The best example of that is maybe Iceland. Iceland has in many ways come into an unhappy situation, in the sense that the Icelanders themselves have voted for some politicians who have far on their way not to experiment, who may be hard to deal with, but who at least allowed an expansion of a type of business beyond the borders of the country, to which I shall soon come back. In fact, just before the financial crisis, Icelandic banks had liabilities to non-residents equivalent to about nine times their gross domestic product. A peculiar domestic bubble reinforced the crisis. Now, in a timely manner, economic clean-up and support from the international community are required. Since the fall of 2008, it has been the government's line to take the lead in international cooperation to stabilise Iceland's economy. There has been broad support for even here in Stortinget. The Icelandic people have in many ways no better friend in the world than Norway, but to which I am going to come back, I believe – and also the majority of the finance committee – that the Icelandic people depend on more friends in the world than only Norway in the situation they are now facing. It is, and has been, a cross-political agreement that Norway should be in solidarity with Iceland in the difficult situation in which it has come. Although Icelanders themselves have to bear a considerable responsibility for the crisis in which the country has arisen, the Norwegian Government has taken several initiatives and has been a driver internationally for various forms of assistance and support. That's good. Because we can't pay Iceland out of the crisis their economy is in. The most important thing now is to put in place the basis for the IMF Governing Board to deal with and approve the next review of the stabilisation programme. This is what the Icelandic authorities are concerned about, and this is also what the Norwegian Government is working for. Only through broad cooperation can Iceland restore the confidence and credibility of the Icelanders themselves depend on, and, as the Icelanders themselves say, the most important thing is that in the future they can also have a business that has confidence beyond the Icelandic borders. The so-called deposit guarantee obligations arising from the establishment in the EEA territory of Icelandic branch banks have been an important part of the discussion on aid to Iceland. In many countries, there was coverage in the branch banks for the requirements of depositors under the guarantee scheme, including: This was true in Germany and Norway. We remember the rapid and reliable management of, among other things, all Norwegian authorities. Kaupthing's branch here in Norway. However, in the case of Landsbanki’s branches in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands — the so-called IceSave branches — the situation was such that the requirements clearly exceeded the values of the branch itself. In order to ensure that ordinary people in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands were not going to pay for what happened, the British and Dutch authorities went in and pushed the payment to the depositors in IceSave. These are the payments made by the two countries requesting reimbursement to the Icelandic State. And that's where the crown of the work is, or the core of the problem lies, because there's still no agreement between the three countries about the terms of the refund. There is a consensus that Iceland is going to settle, the Icelanders themselves say so, but they do not agree with the conditions that have been set, so far. I believe that this is a basis for believing that the negotiations that have been resumed after the Icelandics themselves had held a referendum on a proposal that is considered obsolete by enough people – they had already negotiated a better proposal than what was on the table – will lead to an amicable consensus at some point in time. There are so many people who are interested that both the United Kingdom, Iceland and the Netherlands can come up with an amicable solution. Norway has not made the concrete IceSave agreements between the three countries a condition for the further payment of the loan to Iceland. However, the Norwegian authorities have been quite clear that Icelanders must comply with their international obligations, including: EEA obligations under the Deposit Guarantee Directive. Finally, I would like to say that I have great sympathy – both in public and here in the Chamber – for the Christian People's Party's commendable commitment to our brothers in Iceland. But I would think that here in Norway we can do the Icelanders more of a bear service if we would unilaterally put in place a lot of measures that the Icelanders themselves have not asked for yet. I think Iceland is dependent on broad international support for what is being proposed. It will be supported by Norway. If the situation develops in the sense that the Icelandic people will need more assistance from Norway, I am absolutely sure that the Norwegian authorities are willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1545	First of all, I want to make some reflections on the legal basis of the IceSave agreement between the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Iceland. Iceland's accession to the EEA at the beginning of the 1990s meant inter alia: Icelandic banks were given the opportunity to compete equally with other banks in the rest of Europe. So that's not what the committee chairman suggests, that there were some irresponsible people who started off in Iceland that we could get the impression of. There is an agreement — the EEA Agreement — which also forms part of Norway, and Norwegian banks also expanded through cooperation with other countries. The difference is that Iceland is a very small country and has a very small economy. The consequence was that Iceland’s three major banks chose to expand their business abroad, because that was where the customer potential was greater. For the same reason, European banks did not choose to set up banking branches in Iceland because there was not enough customer base. Through expansion in other countries, the three Icelandic banks had mostly a turnover that was ten times higher than Iceland's gross domestic product. This growth occurred both while the banks were mainly state owned, and after the banks were privatised in the early 2000s. The collapse of the financial industry in Iceland raises many questions. Some of these are legally very complicated and are in many ways dissolved legal land. The obvious thing is, can a country be held financially liable if part of the private business does not assume financial obligations towards non-residents business itself is unable to comply? In other words, is it really that Iceland as a nation is legally and financially responsible for losses incurred by private Icelandic banks? The IceSave agreement is based on such a principle, and it is precisely this principle that many Icelanders believe is wrong, hence the great popular resistance to the IceSave agreement. So it's not – again – as the committee chairman tries to suggest, that Iceland is making up its own mind. Iceland has not entered into any commitments, there are three private banks that were previously publicly owned, that have entered into commitments, and that is where the legal dilemma is. The fact that the Storting today is discussing the situation related to Iceland is of great importance. It is quite natural that Norway, as a nation, represents our friends in Iceland. For the Progress Party, it is important to point out the following: We are pleased that there is now a great deal of cross-political agreement on support for Iceland. It enables future support to be provided and implemented quickly. The State guarantee for loans from the Bank of Norway to the Central Bank of Iceland received unanimous support from the Stortinge last year was an important decision. Norway as a contributor is at the top of our neighboring countries, and with this demonstrates our willingness to support Iceland. The approach put forward by the Committee on Finance is almost unanimous, but I would like to highlight the following comments, which are of particular importance for the Progress Party, and which we expect the Government to focus on: ‘The majority emphasise that Norway has not made the concrete IceSave agreements between Iceland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom a condition for the further payment of the loan to Iceland.’ This is in many ways the problem that the proposal of the Christian People's Party travels, and makes the proposal of the Christian People's Party superfluous. Such a clear opinion of the Committee confirms that Norway is willing to contribute – regardless of the discussion between Iceland, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Further quoted from the setting: ‘The majority indicates that the most important thing now is to put in place the basis for the IMF’s Governing Board to deal with and approve the next review of the stabilisation programme.’ Here, the Progress Party expects the Government, through its representation and possible influence in the IMF, to ensure that such governance can be promptly clarified and that the United Kingdom and the Netherlands do not use the conflict associated with IceSave to train further treatment in the IMF governing bodies. For the Progress Party, it is essential that Norway be willing to listen — and act quickly — if Iceland asks for further assistance, in addition to that provided by the State guarantee last year. The Progress Party believes that Norway must be willing to go far to assist Icelanders. Norway, as a nation — with our financial muscles — will be forced to provide such assistance if Iceland needs additional support in the form of loans and so on. But for the Progress Party, it is also important that we follow up what Iceland itself wants, and not what we think the Icelanders might need. Then I can add that the Advance Party big group was on Iceland this weekend. In addition to having lava up to the knees, we had meetings with today's politicians and yesterday's politicians. It was former Prime Minister Haarde, it was the leader of the Independence Party Bjarni Benedictsson and in addition several others. They confirm what I am now saying, that the big legal question is whether Iceland is responsible as a nation for obligations incurred by three private-owned banks. It's asking a very difficult question. It has nothing to do with what the chairman of the committee suggested, that Iceland settles itself. Iceland is in this context no unit, and that's Iceland's argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1585	I just want to make some comments. I don't think I'm going to interfere so much in either the discussion of the skill of Icelandic politicians or the legal point. What I see in particular is that Iceland wants to reach an agreement itself, they have not really asked for what is in the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I think that, as the rapporteur also said, is extremely important. Iceland needs more friends than just Norway, although Norway, of course, agrees with what has happened up there and wants to contribute to finding solutions. That's why we're so pleased with what the government has done. I also note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs commented on this in his statement today, and that the situation is obviously closely followed. It is also important for the Right to separate IceSave from the role of the IMF and the conditions for the implementation of the stabilisation programme. We've got insurance from the government for that, so that's where we're satisfied. I also think it is a little important to stress that Iceland is not a developing country. Iceland is a vastly well-developed society with a very strong value creation and working capacity. The Icelandics are working hard, and according to the letter the finance minister has sent the committee, and also other calculations I have seen, the debt burden to Iceland, even after having been settled with IceSave, does not come to be deterrent to what many other countries have. So it's important to put this a little bit in perspective. I think Iceland itself wants to clean up, we're going to listen to that, and then we're going to contribute when the IMF thinks it's right to go the next step in the stabilisation programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1594	The international financial crisis was just the occasion that led to the crisis in Iceland. The real reason was a neoliberalist policy inspired by Reagan and Thatcher. Hopefully, Iceland’s experience will now be an example of warning for all. Nyliberalism and neoliberalism policies have clearly failed. Iceland’s economy was dominated by three major banks, Glitnir, Landsbanki and Kaupthing and 10–12 Icelandic financial businessmen who built extensive business empires over the last 10 years of the crisis. The banks and businessmen were woven tightly together through mutual loans and investments, which were called the Icelandic Brotherhood. A massive economic expansion was based on massive borrowing abroad. It went well as long as the credits were plentiful and the interest rate was low. With the collapse in the United States, the Icelandic pyramid economy also collapsed. It was designed to facilitate economic policy when, in 1995, a purely bourgeois government came to power in Iceland under Prime Minister David Oddsson of the Independence Party. Exemplified by Reagan and Thatcher, he implemented a pure liberalist economic policy with massive privatisations, cuts in the public sector and total liberalisation of business and banking. Financial capital gained power in Iceland and dictated policy, and with the new total freedom space began to build up what was called the ‘North Atlantic tiger economy’. The problem was just that the expansion was based on excessive and risky borrowing, and they built sky-high financial card houses that were extremely vulnerable. It went as it had to: the banking system went over, the interest rate has risen, and a new government is now struggling to clean up. Many people are severely affected by the crisis, and I understand well their rage and abstinence when they clean up after the speculator capitalists and the politicians I understand that the Progress Party has visited Iceland this weekend. Iceland fully guaranteed the deposits of Icelandic residents when Landsbanki broke down, and now the government is on the promise to also assume liabilities to IceSave's foreign customers. But it has, as you know, been a big fight about the conditions. Iceland's financial problems are more than IceSave. First of all, it is a matter of restoring confidence in the Icelandic economy. Therefore, Iceland has negotiated a stabilisation programme with the International Monetary Fund. This agreement also implies a certain shift in IMF policy by not requiring a reduction in public services and increased privatisation, but, on the contrary, calls for increased political control of speculation and money transactions. It is important for Iceland that the IMF review stabilisation programme approves the country. In the opinion of the SV, there is no reason that the country should not receive such an authorisation stamp. Norway has worked for this in the IMF. Norway’s position is that the second tranche of loans to Iceland should now be payable because Iceland has shown that it is under its obligations. It is much more important for Iceland to get approval stamps and loans from the IMF than for Norway to help the country alone. The Netherlands and, in particular, the United Kingdom have been brutally acting against Iceland. There is every reason to support Iceland in its efforts to get a better IceSave agreement. There may be reason to fear that the EU will ensure that the IMF authorisation is subject to a pressure to accept the conditions of Iceland for IceSave in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. In my opinion, this will be a new situation that the Norwegian Government and the Icelandic Government will have to deal with if we have to find out that such a situation has arisen. As Nordic brothers, we have had close contact with Iceland and have given the help they are asking for, and we should continue to do so. Iceland has sought a broad economic aid package and Norway should use its international influence to contribute to it. Then, at the same time, we need to learn from Iceland and help combat neoliberal economic policies and mitigate their adverse effects, both in Norway, Iceland and in all other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1617	The centre party pool has had a strong commitment to assist the Icelanders in a case that shows that we need a new international law. The deposit guarantee schemes were not and have not been created for such a collapse that occurred in Iceland. The criticisms of the free movement of capital, which some strongly advocated, highlighted the risk of such a collapse, but no necessary countermeasures were put in place against it. In the class struggle on January 28, 2010, I wrote, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Norway shall not stand as passive spectators to the needs of Icelanders. We have to stretch out our hands – and so make our choice." And on the other hand, ‘Norway should show clearly where we stand in a situation where the Icelandic people are being forced into solutions without the commitments being resolved through international dispute resolution.’ The proposal of the Christian People's Party we are now discussing was promoted before the Icelandic referendum. At the referendum on March 6, when I was present in Iceland, I experienced the bizarre result that only 1.6 pst. Of those who voted, we agreed to the agreement, so we saw how it went. It was in a situation where the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, who are also party leaders of the two government parties, did not vote. They did not vote in favour of the agreement. That is quite special, but can be explained, because when the Icelandic President said no to the majority decision to go for the agreement, it led to new negotiations for a better solution. The agreement was too poor, too poorly prepared, and it was also too poor for international support. After the intervention of the Icelandic President, Iceland has received greater international support. It is happy that it has also come from Norway. But maybe the most important support is from the United States. What happened was that in such a defeat in the referendum, the political crisis in Iceland was reinforced. But this led to something good, by drawing the opposition more actively into the negotiations. Both the head of the Independence Party and the head of the Icelandic ‘Center Party’, the Prosecution Party, are now involved in the negotiations in reference groups. After 6 March, little has happened in the negotiations on IceSave, i.e. the negotiations between Iceland on the one hand and the United Kingdom and the Netherlands on the other. But what's happening now is that there's a much more professional behaviour on the Icelandic side. This, combined with greater international support, leads to hopes that there may be an agreement that takes a greater view of the commitments entered into by the Icelandic State. So we get a taste of something that should be a new right in these situations. What's the main point for Iceland, as well as paying for its liabilities, is to stabilize the economy, especially the dollar rate. What's in the setting is a happy thing. It says, finally: ‘This package, in the view of the majority, is not linked to the outcome of the Icesave negotiations, as long as the conditions are met after the programme agreed with the IMF, including that Iceland honours its EEA obligations. The majority point to the fact that the Icelandic Government clearly states that the conditions are met and therefore considers that Norway should be open to discuss this programme in the IMF.’ It's important. And then it's also in the position, which the majority is behind: ‘The majority would stress that if there were other requests from Iceland for aid, Norway would of course discuss this.’ Iceland still has a very high interest rate. The high level of interest rates in Iceland is one of the major problems for the business community in Iceland, because it helps to make investment too little interesting. At the same time, Iceland continues to have capital controls vis-à-vis the rest of the world. It is important, in our opinion, that it be continued, so that one can retain that instrument, so that it is easier to reduce the level of interest rates. It is interesting that in Iceland one could devalue its currency and thus gain competitiveness and thus increase exports. It is important for Icelanders to get out of this, i.e. by getting more exports than imports, because it is the value creation that pays for the obligations they have entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1655	Let me first address the proposal of the Christian People's Party in the vote. Firstly, I would like to say that I am pleased with the development that the matter has been made on the Norwegian team since the proposal was submitted. I am very pleased that the Financial Committee is now clearly saying that it is prepared to grant loans to Iceland regardless of the fate of the IceSave Agreement. It's important to get in place. It has not always been as clear if it has been the case. I see from ABC News in February that when the SV party group dealt with this matter, it was said that Norway had changed its position, so that the assumptions about an IceSave agreement no longer existed. On questions from the journalist whether this was not a new attitude, the FI spokesperson in SV, Aegean: ‘Yes, I think so, too. Therefore I had to ask twice whether this was an official position." Egeland would not publish who from the Government informed the big group about this. In other words, it is clear that the uncertainty as to whether conditions were laid down for the implementation of the IceSave agreement before it was a loan via the IMF, has in the event been far inside the government parties’ aggregates. That's why it gets a little special, I think, pretending it hasn't been a discussion theme. But let me now put it aside and say that I am very happy that there is no longer any doubt that such a requirement is not made by the Norwegian team. So that's what happens now. It is clear that there was a blood agreement between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands pushed Iceland before Christmas in an incredibly difficult situation for Iceland at the time they were totally dependent on, to get some stability, to agree to almost what it should be. Many people have asked questions about what is legally around this, both in Iceland and elsewhere. As far as I am concerned, I should just like to point out that negotiations are now under way. The important issue now is whether the IMF is being used in a game where the United Kingdom and the Netherlands use the IMF to thin Iceland. I have a strong sense of that happening, even though you haven't quite managed to get this on the table. But through its strong positions and as members of the EU, we cannot ignore the fact that this is about to happen. It's in such a situation, if everything is locked up because of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom's positions, which is also leading the IMF and the majority there, we hope and believe that, at any request, Norway is willing to offer credit to Iceland. And we're not talking about alms, we're talking about loans on general terms. Time will show what will result from the ongoing negotiations. At least we can see that even the Netherlands and the United Kingdom must have realised that the conditions they were negotiated at first were totally unreasonable, otherwise they would not have agreed to reconsider their positions as they are. I am pleased that at least the majority here are not locking themselves to assume that everything has to happen through the IMF, but – if it turns out to be a closed door – that it is opening also for other possibilities. I just want to say in the end, since it was said that Iceland has not informed itself in this matter: on 5 March, Prime Minister Sigurdardottir said: ‘We see it as very unjustified to link the settlement of Icesave to the payment of loans from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and from the Nordic countries.’ And she went on to say that it would be “very important” for Iceland that the Scandinavian countries paid out crisis loans to Iceland before the IceSave battle was resolved. So this is a theme also on the highest team in Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1689	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1692	I refer you to the letter I sent to the Finance Committee on the matter, and that ever since the Icelandic financial sector collapsed in 2008, it has been the Government's line of leading international cooperation to support Iceland. It is also true that Norway’s role in this way has been valued by the Icelandic government. The Norwegian Government has not made the concrete IceSave agreements between Iceland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom a condition for the further payment of the Norwegian loan to Iceland. What is a condition, however, is that the board of the International Monetary Fund, i.e. the IMF member states, approves the next review of Iceland's stabilisation programme, and that Iceland is subject to its EEA obligations, as the Icelandic Government has on several occasions stressed that Iceland is doing. These conditions are common to the Nordic loans. Both the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and I have been in good contact with our Icelandic colleagues during the March. We have stressed that Norway is under its obligations towards Iceland and that we trust the Icelandic Government's assurances that Iceland will comply with its international obligations. That is why we have also said that we hope that the new situation will not lead to further delays in the stabilisation programme. We have informed the other Nordic countries and the Nordic-Baltic board member of the Money Fund that Norway wants to manage the progress of Iceland's stabilisation programme as quickly as possible and that Norway will support its approval. It is the administration of the Monetary Fund that must decide when it is appropriate to carry out the next management procedure. Both the IMF and Iceland are dependent on the support of the international community to go further. In this case, support from European countries will play a special role. Although there are no formal links between the IMF programme and IceSave, it appears that the handling of IceSave will also be important to achieve such support. I record that after the President’s no, there has been a new uncertainty in other European countries about Iceland’s willingness to fulfil its obligations regarding deposit guarantees under the EEA Agreement. Iceland needs to mitigate that uncertainty in order to ensure adequate international support. I agree with the representative of Syversen that it will be unacceptable for the Netherlands and the United Kingdom to use the IMF as a breaker to get Iceland to impose greater burdens than the country is obliged to. However, we have no basis to say whether this is the case. At the same time, it is important not to doubt that EEA obligations must be taken seriously, not least by Iceland and Norway, as by EEA and EFTA countries. I attach great importance to the fact that support for Iceland takes place in the context of international cooperation, and that the Nordic countries stand together in this way. Through such cooperation, Norway’s support has the greatest effect. This is also underlined in Innst. S. No 221 for 2008-2009, where a treated guarantee for loans from Norway’s Bank to the Icelandic Sedlabanki, as it is called. Finally, I would like to remind you that Iceland is a well-developed and prosperous country, with a gross domestic product per. population above the average in Europe, even after the downturn and collapse of the Icelandic banking system. Iceland's economy is dynamic and its competitiveness is good. Islanders also have words on them to be out of work – and good at keeping order and correcting the economy when it is required. In addition, they have profits on the external trade balance. The unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of last year was about 6.7 p.m. In this way, Iceland is below the average in Europe, where Norway is one of the few lower countries, while, for example, Norway is one of the lowest countries. Both Finland, the United Kingdom and Sweden are higher than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1717	I notice that the Minister of Finance stresses that Norway is under its obligations and that he says that the aid is part of international cooperation. All of this is well and good, and the Minister of Finance is to be commended for it. What I want to ask is: what is Norway doing? It's a Nordic country. We feel a very special responsibility towards a country that is part of the Nordic family, and want to support Iceland a little beyond what is common in a situation where a country has come up in a disaster, as Iceland has. So my question is, what do we do more than stand by our commitments and engage in international cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1724	In my view, the best solution for Iceland will still be to complete the IMF programme. Then I would like to say to the representative Myhre that we have also had good contact with our colleagues in Iceland throughout this phase, and we have been willing to contribute, together with other countries, in a phase of the IceSave negotiations. If Iceland had wanted that, we would have been willing to set up, but I can't go into any more detail about what it would mean in that case, but I can assure you that we have been willing to set up for Iceland, but it must be Iceland itself that has to make a specific reference to Norway about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1731	I agree with the Minister of Finance that there is a busy people we are talking about here, and they will probably be okay, but the problem is, of course, that in a given situation they don't have money – they don't have liquidity. You may be as busy as you want, but when you have liabilities and don't have the money to pay them because there is a stop in the loan supply, it helps very little. I now just want to confirm that the government, in a given situation – if it locks completely in the relationship between Iceland and the IMF, perhaps because the Netherlands and the United Kingdom use it as a breakpoint – is Norway’s position that, of course, it will be considered to grant separate loans, if there is a request for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1738	I just want to refer to the answer to the previous line. In addition, I would also like to inform you that the Icelandic Prime Minister has taken up with our Prime Minister the possibility that Norway can pay out its share of the loan, even if there would be a postponement in the treatment of the IMF. This has been noted by our Prime Minister, but at the same time we stress that the Norwegian loan is part of a common Nordic contribution within the framework of the IMF. I would like to stress what I said instead, that at this stage we will do what we can to ensure that the loan programme is put on the agenda of the IMF, and that the Nordic countries' contributions can thus be implemented according to the plan that is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1745	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1750	Of course, this commitment to helping Iceland in the difficult situation they've come into has a lot of sympathy over them. In the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, we have also followed this matter, addressed it in various ways, and discussed it with our Icelandic colleagues. What's important to keep in touch is that Iceland wants a wide international aid package, which they have now received, and from which they have received the first payment. It's important that we do what we can to make it go further. The Icelandics themselves say that they will comply with their international obligations. So among these is not to discriminate between depositors in Iceland and other countries in terms of the deposit guarantee. It is part of their obligations under the EEA Agreement. The Christian People's Party says in the vote that it may seem that the United Kingdom and the Netherlands are using their power to make Iceland pay more than what is reasonable. The representative Seven probably used the term "blood agreement" in his post, if I heard correctly. But what is the Christian People's Party's view that Iceland should cover? Is there any other starting point than the deposit guarantee? The sum that we are talking about – that is probably NOK 30 billion – will also be – some people think strongly – reduced when you have made up the values of the dwelling, which will cover, some might think up to 80 pst. of the sum, which would constitute a significant relief in the burden that the contract would otherwise entail. Now the Council of State has assured that if you get into a situation where you do not get on with the loan package, Norway will assess whether we can contribute our share alone, or in advance of this happening again. I think we also have to bear in mind that if Norway were to be the only one with a loan, we would have to assume the obligation to ensure that Iceland follows the stabilisation programme – what the IMF is doing. I'm not sure if it would have been a pleasant task to those we consider to be brothers and good friends in the Nordic region. There's a very difficult situation in Iceland. It didn't get any better after the president gave up veto and the case was sent to a referendum. I don't know if it's the best contribution that we're now suggesting to the Icelandics other solutions that can be heard more easily in the situation that the Icelandic government is facing. They have – I had almost said – probably enough with their own president in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1769	In 1864, Denmark was attacked by Austria and Prussia – two of Europe’s major powers. In a big political game, Denmark was sacrificed and, of course, had no chance of defending itself against the overpower. Here in Norway, Henrik Ibsen was furious and wrote the poem “A Brother in Distress”. Sweden and Norway had no obligations to help Denmark. They had not signed any agreements to do so, and therefore remained calm while the Danes defended themselves against the supremacy. But if Ibsen had lived today, he would have written "A brother in distress II." We're dealing with a Nordic neighbouring country that's in distress. They have come up in a situation that was totally unforeseeable, and which today makes Iceland have no visible way out of the miser. When it is said by the Norwegian authorities that we stand by our commitments and that the support we may be providing is part of international cooperation, that is not enough. We should feel a stronger responsibility because it is about the country that may be closest to Norway historically, politically, culturally and even geographically. Very many people in Norway require Norway to extend a little longer than we would have done if this had been about any other country around the world, and the Government should note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1780	The President is, in fact, in doubt as to whether the comparison with a military attack on Denmark is parliamentaryly relevant in this context, but allows it to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1783	The finance minister told me on the way up that the poem had a relevance, and I support it at least! I think it was a powerful contribution by the representative Myhre. I want to comment on Svein Roald Hansen's question: what are we really talking about with unfair terms or blood money, as I said. It's not that you don't have to make up for depositors. The point is that the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have settled against these depositors, and they want the money back from Iceland. They'll have that on terms that are completely unfair, with an interest rate that's completely unfair plus, plus. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the question. If it is true that the Workers' Party's figures here believe that the initial agreement concluded between Iceland and the United Kingdom and the Netherlands is reasonable, it will soon go beyond the Netherlands and the United Kingdom themselves, which have agreed to adjust their positions. I must say that I also hear that Norway is going to live up to its obligations. I have to say that I am in the future excited about what it will mean in practice. Will that mean that you don't work against a solution? That's the least. The question is to what extent you want to be a driver to get a solution within the IMF. I choose to interpret the Minister of Finance positively. I would also like to remind you of what Prime Minister Sigurdardottir in Iceland said a short time ago about this delay that is now occurring: ‘This delay slows down our economic reconstruction and destroys our creditworthiness.’ I hope that we not only show our – what to say – views of Nordic cooperation in celebrations, but also shows it in practice. Until the opposite is proven, I'm assuming that the government is also working on those lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1802	I just have a little comment. I look at the setting that there is a special comment from the Progress Party that has fallen out. It was the representative of the Syversen who made me aware of it. Now I don't remember that phrase, but I still want to make the room and the president aware that there is going to be a special comment from the Progress Party into the vote. How this is done is practical, I don't know, but I've said from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1809	The representative Tybring-Gjedde then pointed out that there was an error in Innst. 196 p. This setting will be enriched. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2592]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1829	Initially, there is reason to recall an important premise on the part of the Storting when the code of action was adopted in spring 2001. The assumption was that 4 pst. the return of the State pension fund abroad would be used in the country’s economy in such a way that we: built up the country's necessary transport investment at a completely different pace and with greater resources spent on research and education in order to give new generations the best possible skills and the country's valuable human capital had instruments for business such as tax relief and other incentives to contribute to a competitive and robust business life; The Council of State should today answer the question as to whether it considers that this decision on enlargement is being followed up. The answer is probably close to fading, for this is unfortunately not the case. This government has largely applied the returns to new operational measures, which impede the prioritisation of those three objectives. Transport investment is now at a historically low level, measured as a percentage of GDP or as a percentage of the state budget with barely 2 pst. The government claims that adopted National Transport Plan means a major effort on the road and on the road. In dollars and cents, this is correct, but at the same time, there is no government that has granted less to travel in nominal dollars than the previous government. In real terms, however, we get so much less for the money now than four years ago that we probably also now have a real decline. For the same reason, toll financing has also reached a historically high level and has become greater than its own contribution to road network investment. In the year’s budget, the Government is sky high above the 4 p.m. level of the rule of action, as well as in the 2009 exceptional year. The challenge is to bring money consumption down to an acceptable level in line with the policy of action. This is entirely in agreement with the Right. At the same time, it's important that the cuts are taken in the right places. Then we are concerned that the newspapers still refer to sources of government that say that transport now has to be down-prioritized. The right considers that the Minister of Finance must brush the dust of the assumptions of the rule of action, which his party agreed to adopt in due course. Secondly, we need to find smart and forward-looking solutions, such as new project organisation and new funding models. On the right, it recommends an extensive use of public-private cooperation models and has many concrete proposals for ready-to-use road and rail projects. Today we see a huge aftermath on Norwegian road and track. The right is proposing fund solutions with a return set aside to re-establish the enormous maintenance allowance we have worked up on the road and the track. Will the Minister of Finance take on such new instruments? I am excited about the answer, but there are also large parts of Norwegian business and all the organisations working on traffic information and safety on our roads. Also state agencies such as the State Road Service and the Railway Agency have asked for this and for the Government's willingness to rethink and implement successful solutions applied in most other countries. Allow me a few quotes from an excellent chronicle of an unknown finance minister and his former government colleague Matz Sandman: ‘The budgetary allocation system is based on annual budgets and the cash principle, so competition for the ‘free resources’ within a responsible budget framework becomes very hard. There is a need for these funds to fight for highly-needed transport investment.» And they go on: ‘The time is therefore overdue to reflect on society’s need for infrastructure investment.’ Better can hardly be said. On the right, these thoughts are fully supported and have highlighted 23 points of action in our alternative transport plan, which we have called ‘Responsible — safe home’. Last year, on the right, the NTP facility lacked any of the badly needed reforms and showed no willingness for innovation in the transport sector. And we weren't alone. Here I stand with a document called ‘National Railway and Road Lift’. Models for the long-term and more efficient implementation of development projects’. The document is an input to the NTP from the Eastern Cooperation. In Eastern cooperation, eight counties cooperate, and they are based on the principles of the chronicle I just referred to. The chronicle was otherwise written six months before this document was published. The document is summarised with the term ‘the seven sisters’. These are seven measures proposed to modernise Norwegian transport and to bring us into line with countries we naturally compare with. The term ‘seven sisters’ was used because these measures can be introduced separately, or in cooperation with each other, as the document states. I mention these quickly from the document: multiannual budgetary decisions, the principle of accruals, i.e. depreciation, infrastructure funds, debt financing, public private cooperation, the exemption of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency, and last but not least, the organisation of investment projects in separate companies. All of this, and more, will also be found in the Right Alternative Transport Plan. This is the thinking of former Minister of Finance Johnsen, a councillor with a background like the Labour Party Council and several country rapporteurs from the Labour Party, and also from other parties, of course, to which we will focus. I know a veritable wave, almost a tsunami of demands to think new and modernize. But nothing happens. I know that today's finance minister Johnsen has been confronted with this before, and that in his charming way he said that "this was before and is now," that is, this was from the time before he entered the government. Then I say, "Why is that?" Is it true that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for political innovation? Is it not precisely the Minister of Finance's wise and sober analysis for just two years that should be taken into account in the government's reforms? Or could it be that important modernisation measures are stopped on an ideological basis and disagreement in the Government, where the government's left side is dominated? In that case, there is a very precious ideological disunity for society and a vision that only a small minority share in this hall. The Norwegian transport sector is now losing eight years to the failure to implement important modernisation measures. This puts us far back. On the right, many structural reforms were supported by the Labour Party Governments in the 1990s: the Telecom, the NSB, the Aviation Agency, the Posten and the Gardermoen extension. We in the Right would then go further and increase the pace of modernisation, but from the current government there has not been any single modernisation or reorganization in a sector as important as transport. With the financial crisis and a strenuous budgetary situation, the following issues become even more important: Is it the static, reactionary forces within the Government that stop innovation and modernisation, or is it the Council's office? In any case, a Minister of Finance with great confidence, even outside the Government, should have every opportunity to cut through this unfortunate situation. Is he willing to do that? I can promise him full support from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1890	First, I would like to say a few words about the rule of action as the next Monday, March 29, celebrates the nineth anniversary. That is the formal rule of action. We have had a rule of action before, but I am not going to get into that right now. The majority of the population then adhered to the guidelines for the use of oil money in the future. The main point was that one should phase oil revenues gradually into the economy, at the same time as the expected real return on State pension funds abroad, as it is called today. The Communication and the statement by the Financial Committee pointed out that the scope of action resulting from increased oil money use should be used in a way that also increases the growth power of the Norwegian economy. Infrastructure, research and tax reductions were mentioned in this context. There is no doubt that investment in infrastructure can, if rationalised, contribute to increasing the growth capacity of the economy. However, it is not that transport investment alone contributes to increasing the country’s income and well-being in the future. Many of the purposes we allocate money to over the state budget have the same effect. This applies, for example: expenditure on education, research, health care – even investments in kindergartens are important for the future workforce. This means that appropriations for transport and infrastructure must be assessed in the same way as appropriations for all other good purposes in the State budget. They also need to be assessed on the basis of their contribution to promoting the interests of society in the short and long term. Creating a government budget is to choose between different purposes. The size of the budget has stated, by means of its allocation rules, that there are some principles on the basis of which the state budget should be drawn up. This means that all the expenditure and revenues of the State are to be included in the State budget, so that both the accumulation and the government are given the best possible basis for making their judgements. It has been suggested from many quarters that a person should deviate from the so-called cash principle and that annual budgetary decisions prevent investments from being carried out with rational progress. That's not right. For, within the current budgetary system, the Storting may adopt major development projects by approving a cost framework for the project and empowering the Ministry to conclude contracts obliging the State beyond the first financial year. This possibility is also used in practice. To give an example – not in the road sector, however: annual budgetary decisions and cash principles did not stand in any way in the way that the opera house in Bjørvika could be built with rational progress. This is also true for investments in both rail and road. The criticism of the budgetary system is, as I see it, not a detection of a failure in the system, but really wants more money for certain purposes. It's fine, but the debate could become more transparent, in my view, if one could agree that this is about priority, about how much one wants to use, not the budgetary system itself. Through the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the Government has taken action to protect some priority projects by financing them in its own posts. This applies to E6 west of Alta, E16 over File Mountain and new double track between Oslo and Ski. The aim of separating individual projects in separate posts is to increase the possibility for the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency to see the development of entire sections in the context, in order to ensure the most efficient development possible. At the same time, the maintenance of the infrastructure can be a well-profitable use of resources as well as initial investment. We have seen in recent years a necessary distortion of the transport budget towards maintenance. This will be continued in the transport plan. To say it with a flash in the eye: whoever has enough money in the bank doesn't have to buy it on payment. Because no matter how tempting a payment can be in an early stage, it always gets more expensive than it seems. What Mr Halleraker is really asking is whether I am willing to use alternative funding models to avoid cutbacks in adopted plans. I don't know if that's so, but it kind of looks like the Right wants to find ways to bypass the rule of action, one of which in other contexts is a very strong defender of. Norway does not really need to finance large-scale expansions of loans served by future government budget appropriations, and debt financing of large-scale transport projects does not provide us with any increased real economic space for action. Private debt financing can even help to increase the cost of transport projects, as such financing can often be more expensive than the country’s own financing cost, precisely because the Norwegian State is one of the most creditworthy. In St. prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, the Government discussed the question of whether the current budgetary policy should be implemented in such a way as to prioritise long-term investment in assets rather than other expenditure on the State budget. I wasn't in that government, but I've read about it. Following an overall assessment, the government found that it was not desirable to introduce such schemes. In this context, it was emphasised that many objectives financed by the State budget can help to increase the future well-being and productive capacity of the economy – as I mentioned earlier: expenditure on education, research, etc. The Government also concluded that investments in road and rail continued to be granted in accordance with the applicable budgetary principles and that, therefore, no own debt financing schemes should be set up. This is still the Government's position. It's good to be quoted on any of the things you've written before, but no one is surprised that I support the position of this government, right now. That's the way it is in a system where you've led a discussion and come up with a decision. Finally, a little bit about corporate organization. The company organisation of state activities is primarily appropriate for activities which generate revenues in a market and compete with other producers. There may also be other aspects of the nature of the establishment, such as: issues of finding an appropriate framework for national governance of different activities, which can justify the organisation of activities as separate legal entities, as it is called. However, the desire to finance government expenditure should not justify the organisation of State activities. Companies that raise loans to finance government expenditure with loans that have to be served later through government budget appropriations for many years to come are nothing more than trying to carry government expenditure and debt outside the State budget. This has been recorded with so-called OPS projects. It is also mentioned in St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009 on the national transport plan, including: it appears that the OPS model has given faster project implementation but that it is not possible to demonstrate either higher or lower costs than in traditional implementation. Furthermore, as I've been about before, it says that gains can also be obtained through better contract strategies within today's system. It is concluded that OPS financing of road projects means that the State is financing expenditure on road projects and that the Government is therefore proposing not to open up more OPS projects now. The rule of action is an instrument for making the use of oil money more predictable. In this way, the rule of action also supports monetary policy and reduces the risk of an expected strengthening of the crown. But this assumes that the rule of action is credible. I believe that various forms of it can well call creative bookkeeping, do not increase the state's budgetary policy space, while undermining the rule of action. Important and correct choices of the use of government expenditure must be made through proper and important political priorities in the Government and, finally, in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1920	Allow me to make a small comment on the Council's comment on debt financing. It is not foreign in other parts of government. Neither in municipalities nor in county municipalities is this unknown for large investments – either in business or in households, when investing in something that is intended to give values for decades to come. So just to make it clear: the right does not want to bypass the rule of action, but wants to make sure that it is fulfilled. It's an important nuance. I would like to turn the debate back a little to the need for a greater social commitment, and would like to address a little bit of what the Council of State spoke about, namely project financing. It's perhaps where it's most obvious that this is not possible to implement because of disagreement in the government, in relation to what was said in the Soria Moria statement, namely that you want to bet on project funding. And in the budgetary documents to which the Council of State referred, this was scoffed. Then it is said that because three projects have now been included in their own budget lines, project funding is carried out. At least no other country in the world mentions it as project financing. Project financing is, as I think the Council of State knows very well, having its own budget framework for the projects, having its own companies and an opportunity to organise itself in its own way. It may be State or private companies, with the possibility of debt financing as well. We feel the urgent need to build up the Norwegian road and rail network. We need better accessibility, safer roads and shorter travel time across the country. The prerequisite for doing this is we think we are just introducing new organisational and financing solutions. Then we are pleased to see in yesterday's Evening Post that the Minister for Transport has also come to this, and is very positive about such new ideas. She claims that this is going to be necessary, and will be open to these kinds of projects. The interesting thing here today – and I think many people are excited about it – is whether the Minister of Finance supports this, because this should probably apply from 2013. We want an answer to that. We in the Right believe that why in the world we have to wait until 2013, when we have many more potable projects that we can organize or project already today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1938	I am very pleased that the representative from the Right does not want to circumvent the rule of action and that he underlines the importance of following the rule of action. It is quite important that this is said, because the rule of action has a predictability that is important for the development of the Norwegian economy. What I also think it is important to stress is that the framework of the current national transport plan has increased by approximately DKK 100 billion in relation to the framework of the previous plan. I think it's the case that even when you're raining in real dollars, the frame is considerably higher than that in the previous period, and at least in relation to what was in the 2005 budget from the Bondevik II government. The level in crowns and ears compared to what has been proposed in 2010 is approximately DKK 10 billion above the 2005 level, and there is a significant increase in investment in infrastructure, research and education as well as investment in future labour. As for the interpellant's first posts, there may be disagreement about sizes, but there is no doubt that this government has used the freedom of action to invest in future investments in Norwegian society in a large measure. What has been an ever-increasing point in road projects and other heavy transport projects has been the progress, the efficiency and the conclusion of a contract which gives a coherent and good implementation of such projects. As I said in my main post, there are opportunities for doing so within the allocation regulations we have today. But it depends, of course, on the fact that the Storting has a real will to prioritize projects that way. I have been following the Norwegian transport debate all the time since I received the honour, as an alternate, to be the case rapporteur for the road chapter in the autumn of 1974. Some of the challenges in Norwegian transport policy are, of course, the many small projects that are important for people to come up with in this long term, and to some extent pig-grown, the country in which we live. But Stortinget has the full opportunity to carry out projects with greater weight and power than what you often hear in the debate. In addition, when it comes to the statements of the Minister of Transport who was pressurised in the evening post yesterday, I think the easiest thing to do is to refer to the interference of the representative Blackevik in the Storting yesterday, where I think the Minister of Transport made both good and thorough statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1951	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic that has been debated over several years, and which, despite the testing of different organisational and funding models, remains equally topical, namely how to organise and finance investments in the transport sector in order to achieve predictable, coherent and efficient deployment. Let me first stress that we in the Workers' Party are very pleased with the NTP decision that was taken in the Stortinget last June, which says that we will spend NOK 100 billion more on transportation over the next ten years, as the Prime Minister stressed in the media last week after speculations about cuts. So for the interpellation. Firstly, I believe that we need to have a broader approach to this challenge than the interpellant’s focus on alternative organisational and funding models and the issue of exemption or not from the annual government budgets. I believe that we also need to focus on the decision-making basis that governments receive for transport investment, namely the national transport plan. The aim of the plan is good and provides a comprehensive plan and a common decision-making basis for investments in the transport system in this country. Today’s NTP is a good step on the road in relation to previous individual plans, but still the plan and decisions are marked by the fact that we have four different agencies planning, building up and maintaining each of their modes of transport. Our challenge is to see the needs in context and to develop, operate and maintain a coherent transport system in the country, in the light of the objectives of transport policy, namely road safety, the environment and efficiency. These four floors must provide a basis for this in the common transport plan we have, to a greater extent than today. For example, in the case of organisation, you have a previous right. proposed to split the Railway Agency into two State limited liability companies, and the website of the Right says that they want to transform the Railway Agency into a separate railway company responsible for ownership, operation and management. I have no faith in such privatisation or organisation to contribute to the achievement of the objective of a comprehensive, coherent transport system. On the contrary, I believe that we must maintain the transport modes as management activities. What we can assess, however, is to merge some of these agencies into one common transport network and one overall transport planning secretariat, in order to get an even better grip on the whole. Prior to the adoption of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 at Stortinget in June 2009, different forms of organisation and funding were tested and discussed. Under the Stoltenberg I Government, it was decided to initiate three OPS projects. These projects have now been completed and evaluated. I think there is a broad consensus that the way in which the OPS projects were organised and the predictability that was in the funding led to these investment projects being carried out in a shorter time than traditional transportation projects, thus showing a better outcome in the cost-benefit analysis for that particular point. It's worth taking it further. However, the evaluations showed that there were no lower costs related to this way of financing and organising the projects. The Government and the majority of the Stortinget therefore concluded in the context of the treatment of NTP that we would not proceed with more OPS projects now, but instead facilitate the adoption of several major transport projects with a predictable financing through project funding in the context of the State budget. Project funding is particularly important for railway projects currently financed only by the State budget through the annual appropriations and not, in addition, toll and loan financing as road projects through toll companies. The railway works have estimated that they could have built new double tracks between Skøyen and Asker considerably faster and with a saving of SEK 1.5 billion if the project had been adopted as one development project, with project funding for the entire project. As a result, the NTP 2010–2019 Government and the 2010 State Budget have prioritised project financing for three transport projects, which were also referred to by the Minister of Finance, two on the road and one on the rail. The way the Government has done this is to put these three projects on its own budget lines to ensure predictable funding, so that the Railway Agency and the Road Administration can organise and implement these projects coherently. The point for the Workers' Party by engaging in project financing is to have several major road and rail development projects carried out continuously and in a shorter time, while ensuring smaller improvements and investments in the transport network. We believe that this is well done through our own posts on the government budget for the major projects, and annual assessment and prioritisation of the smallest, as the Government has now stated. Such a transport policy will speed up the impact of investment on citizens and businesses and an efficient, road-safe and environmentally friendly transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e1979	It is true, as the Minister of Finance said, that we had a debate in the Storting yesterday and that the Minister of Transport was present. She said very little – if at all she said something – about a new financing tool. On the other hand, she said, ‘As the Government has done well in its national transport plan [[...]] My challenge to the Minister of Finance is: What is the conscious strategy of this government to invest Norwegian financial wealth in Norwegian roads and Norwegian railways, so that Norway has not only one of the world's largest financial funds, but also roads and railways among the world's best? So the finance minister was among many things in that it was unnecessary to buy money when you have money in the bank. And that's the state! So just as fully, toll financing has forced the drivers to buy their way on the payroll. I will repeat the figures I mentioned yesterday, which the Minister for Transport unfortunately rejected as not credible – but these are the department's own figures: from 1990 to 2007, the drivers have paid over 46 billion kroner in tolls. 15 of the 46 billion have contributed to the collection costs, collection costs and interest costs. I guess only NOK 30 billion has gone to road construction. So it's expensive to force the drivers to buy the road to pay off. There are important questions that are being addressed, both here today and that were attempted yesterday. There is a link between the buying-in of road tolls by means of tolls and the lack of government funding, which is due to the lack of willingness to use good, efficient and correct financial tools. According to the evening post, the Minister of Transport said yesterday that she would turn all the stones to get more money and more to go. As the Progress Party sees it, it is actually the Minister of Finance and his department who appears to be the biggest stone we have to move on to speed up the construction of infrastructure in Norway. I note that the Council of State, the Minister of Finance, has changed its view. He has in a charming way liberated himself from the statements he made before he entered the government. He has left the view that multiannual budgeting is important. He has left the view that it is wise and wise to use infrastructure funds, that it is wise and wise, as many other countries do, to use debt finance – it is used, among other things. in Sweden – that it is wise and wise to release e.g. The Railway Agency and the Road Administration, that it is wise and wise to use more public cooperation, that it is wise and wise to use public development companies, and that it is also wise and wise to look at the introduction of a periodication principle, which is common in other countries. In fact, the Ministry of Finance appears in many ways as a sort of museum guardian of a very old-fashioned and very poor socio-economic theory. The financial crisis of our time led to the collapse of our roads. So we got an extra appropriation last year because it was a financial crisis. More and more people realize that it shouldn't be, and so it doesn't have to be. The starting point for the rule of action, which we would like to see dead when marking the nineth anniversary, was precisely that we should give priority to forward-looking actions within, among other things. infrastructure. That's not how it's done. Let me finally say – since the Minister of Finance was in debt financing: no private building houses like the state builds a road. No enterprise invests in new installations as it invests in infrastructure. Both the family, the private and business actors see that there is a difference between investment and operations. They treat it differently, and they use different tools to finance investment and operations. It should also be done by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2003	I was at – we're going to call it – a dishes meeting in Trøndelag last week, which was about the lack of electricity in the area and the bill that companies were charged with this. Then we had a good colleague from the Workers' Party who said that the post-war generation has neglected in terms of investments in the Kingdom of Norway. I couldn't agree more than that. It is still referred to the rule of action here. It was probably a good invention, but I think it was thought – as it is also described – that it should be used primarily for investment in the Kingdom. It hasn't been like that. We've got very expensive welfare schemes that stick out of farms with the bulk of what's in the four percent. That's why, as the interpellant says, it looks like it's not only rail and road, but also research, development and education that are important areas of our society to make it better equipped for tomorrow. When Dovrebanen was built, and when Bergensbanen was built, Norway was not a rich country. But we did fine. Today, we are a very rich country – to be careful – and it does not seem that we can afford what we should have done. We have to find a solution to this in common. The finance minister says we have project funding. Yes, that's very good, but it still turns out that many of these projects take a long time. When we built a poultry house on my farm a few years ago, we didn't decide that we should build the ground wall one year, the walls the following year, took the third year and the accommodation for the fourth year. No, we decided to build it in a click, and then we borrowed money for it. That's what happened. Now we've paid off the loan a long time ago, and we're absolutely sure that the return from the operation in the feather has led to a better economy – although it's not very good, it's better than if we had built the step-by-step. I would like to stress that a good path, rail, research and development are very important parts of society. We had a meeting with SINTEF yesterday about Norway's position in research, where it was pointed out that we simply lack some infrastructure to keep our international level. In the maritime sector, we are no. 3 on a global scale, and it's a little bit expensive to keep that place. Therefore, it requires investments. I have to admit that the Right has suggested that we could set aside some money for funds that we could use in this context. The interpellant, Halleraker, has underlined all the other possibilities. If we don't do anything about this, it seems like it'll take us 30 years to get an order on a railway in the Oslo region, and to get a real railway in the rest of the country it seems to take about 100 years. From my point of view, it is in the longest form when we know what it would have resulted from development in society if we had got it to today. So the finance minister says that it's the real will of Storting to prioritize it eventually depends. Yeah, that's so far right, that, if the Storting had anything to say. At least during the last year's budgetary procedure, the Government's proposals went through completely. So let's hope that the power of the Biggest in relation to the budget could increase something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2020	Halleraker and Right will make this a debate on private financing of roads through OPS, Public Private Cooperation. They make it sound like free fun, but in reality, OPS can provide a great backbone for taxpayers. These are highways of government payments, and most people know that buying a deposit is expensive. Developing transport is about political will and ability to prioritize society's resources in line with the policy objectives we have. SV prioritises well-being and the environment, not increasing the growth of private cars and climate emissions. The starting point for this debate is that the railways are discriminated against. After major investments in new motorways in the eastern region in recent years, the queues are the same. It's just the bottlenecks that have moved. Nor do the trains have any available capacity to travel on, and the train chaos of winter has shown us how bad it is. Everyone now agrees that delays and cancellations are the result of long political neglect. The relationships of shattering governments with the train have been more treacherous than a deceitful love story. EU statistics show that from 1992 to 2007 Norway was at the bottom of Europe in terms of railway investment. It takes time to straighten out past betrayals and restore faith on the railway. At the same time, the train chaos has developed a great commitment to getting Norwegian railways on rails. Most people are asking for a big effort on trains so that they don't drive in queues to and from work, and so that they can help prevent dangerous climate change and make the air in cities less hazardous to health. In government, SV has tripled railway investment and increased investment to re-establish the maintenance set-up. This is a good start, but it's still not enough. A major effort on the train must be combined with an understanding that the time of the major road constructions in the Central East is over. We can't build new motorways into Oslo to take off for increased traffic. We have to let the railway do the job. A modern double track has a capacity greater than two four-field motorways. That is why we have to scrape the asphalted plans of the Advance Party and the Right on motorways. There is waste of society's resources, and it will not least increase greenhouse gas emissions. Instead, we have to connect parts of the country and regions with fast train connections. To do this, the railway has to get a lot more money in the budgets. More oil money must be invested in green train connections and long-term financing must be ensured so that entire sections can be developed efficiently and without delay. We need to reduce the construction of new motorways and instead bet on the train. We have to use toll revenues from urban parcels and motorways to expand the railway. We need 100 new trains to the NSB. As train traffic increases, we have to make sure to have modern and attractive material. Therefore, we want the NSB to double its orders from 50 to 100 new trainsets to be deployed when the track capacity is improved from 2011. We are calling for the introduction of an ‘Aviation Redemption Charge’. SV will reintroduce the seat charge on air traffic, which was removed during the Bondevik administration, to extend forward-looking rail between cities. It gave Norway EUR 1.5 billion in revenue as late as 2001. Since then, air traffic has increased dramatically, and so have climate emissions. SV will use some of the revenues to compensate for the provision of air services in the districts. The rest of the revenues we will use to expand rail and climate action. It must now be the train's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2048	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. But I want to thank the interpellant even more because he has been the main driver for creating new organisational and funding models for transport policy in Norway for the last ten years. He has, among other things, be active in three successful OPS projects, which we are seeing today. We see happy drivers. We also had the pleasure of visiting the State Road Service, which pointed out that these projects were very successful. We have experienced that the results of these projects have been that LO and NHO today are behind the thinking here, and it may seem that there is a process in the Government in these days that is also positive. At least the result is that we get projects that come in earlier, that are faster to build and that become more spacious. When I heard the council signify that it is soon the nine-year anniversary of the rule of action, I thought it was important to find out what was thinking behind the rule of action. Well, it was a phase-in of oil money. It was said by the Stoltenberg I government that the oil money that was phased in was to be used for three main purposes. The first was infrastructure, i.e. carriage. The second was research and higher education. The third was tax havens. It could be exciting to hear if the Minister of Finance thinks we have been happy with this for the nine years that have passed. I think the rule of action has been very positive, but I don't think that the phase-in we've had of oil money, has necessarily gone to the three main purposes that a large majority in Stortinget pointed to when we decided on the action rule in 2001. It is not just the business that uses the method of financing that the representative Halleraker adopts. In the transport sector too, we see openings for this. Avinor is today the owner of the OSL Gardermoen, which was invested for a total of NOK 11 billion. Today, this airport is valued by the state itself at NOK 31 billion. Now, Avinor is considering a new expansion of NOK 7.5 billion. The state budget will not be affected. It will be a loan withdrawal that Avinor will make – just in line with the model that Halleraker points to here. Then my question is: doesn't the Minister of Finance think that Avinor has a good model? Would you like to go back on that model and, if so, would there be no extension of the Gardermo, in line with the guidelines set out by the Government? At least there is no match between the model Avinor has, and the finance minister Sigbjørn Johnsen says today. I also think Irene Johansen points to a good example; we know the distance between Sandvika and Lysaker. According to the Railway Agency itself, we could have saved 2 billion kroner if we had completed the development of this route in a faster way. That's why it's important that we now look at new organizational ways of doing this. In a life cycle perspective, this also involves risk-sharing, where do we put it? It's about flexibility and innovation. I would also like to say that it was nice that the representative Lasse Kinden Endresen took part in the debate. But I think it's important to tell the representative, Endressen, that this is also a possibility for the railway. It's not like we have this idea only when it's a road. I want to end by mentioning four reasons why I believe that OPS is on the agenda and should be a project on which we focus. One is the desire for better competition that provides a basis for innovation. The second is the desire for better risk-sharing by also drilling the risk by the actor who can influence the risk in the project. The third is the desire to increase the efficiency of public investment, and the fourth is a desire to find a good way to tackle the infrastructure gap that we see increasing year by year. What I think is good reasons to look at both funding models and organisational models in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2067	I am neither static nor reactionary, as the representative Halleraker claimed that part of us was. Today’s red-green government has shown that by giving away tax cuts, it has been possible to increase efforts both on welfare and investment in, among others. infrastructure. It is important to establish as the interpellant suggests that welfare challenges will become so extensive in the years to come that it will be problematic to obtain the necessary investment in infrastructure. I think it's possible to get both, but then of course it's about prioritizing. So we're choosing tax cuts that will cost $10 billion a year. It might therefore be interesting to challenge the inter-pellant as to whether he and the Right could consider prioritising infrastructure and welfare rather than tax cuts. The tracks back to the Bondevik government are in this way frightening because most of them were about tax cuts and little about welfare and infrastructure. This government is highly committed to infrastructure investment. We recognise that the needs are high, and that is why we have adopted an ambitious national transport plan. It stands firm, and we intend to follow up the strong road and rail efforts that are in today's NTP. Of course, we want the most way and the railway for the money. But we're sceptical about financing arrangements like OPS, which makes the state sit with something that might look like a housekeeper's contract. Is it not the intention of the State and the drivers to pay unnecessarily for infrastructure investments, or does the opposition seem to be able to waste taxpayers' money in this way? As I said, we are open to assessing financial instruments that can give us the most money back. That's why we also went in to test the OPS model in its time, just to gain experience. There is also reason to mention that we have also placed a couple of road sections and the Oslo-Ski route on our own budget. The problem is that if the amount of some form of project funding becomes too large, it may be that one commits the entire budget. Only on the three completed OPS projects pay an annual almost half a billion dollars, and we have to pay for the next 25 years. I record that the inter-pellant party wants so many OPS projects that the entire road budget will be tied up after 2020. There's a difference between shaving and cutting off the entire chin. Of course, we are responsive when it comes to getting the most out of each krona used for investment in the transport sector. But even more important is the willingness to prioritise this area through the annual budgets. Here today's red-green government has shown a completely different understanding and willingness both through the national transport plan and through the annual budgets than the previous government of which the inter-pellant party was part.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2085	There is talk of credibility with regard to the rule of action from this pulpit. What does that mean? That means we can use 4 pst. when we have $1,000 billion on the book? That means we can use 4 pst. when we have $3,000 billion on a book? Or 4 pst. when we have $5,000 billion on the book? If the price increase in Norway is in line with the yield of the oil fund, I have understood this incorrectly. I thank the interpellant for taking up an important matter. When I claim that this is important, it is based on the fact that Norway, through the policy and funding models implemented over decades, has led to the decline of national infrastructure in regular law and the increase in delays. The funding model for transport investments over the annual government budget we have today neither provides sufficient predictability nor a sufficient framework for financing major projects. Such a model will often mean that large-scale projects go out on time, which is very costly for the projects and in some cases makes the performance of the operating companies come many years later than expected. The Oslo-Asker train section is thus a good example. But that's not all. It also happens in road construction. The current allocation system has resulted in years of additional time and expenditure for the development of E6 west of Alta. And it's a little strange to hear that when today's finance minister was in charge, he wanted to have an efficient development of our infrastructure, while as Minister of Finance he has a desire to act as Uncle Skrue. As I see it, one of the major challenges, regardless of the OPS and framework investments, is that it is not as easy as anyone claims, to get private development of the road and the track. It is not surprising that many projects are carried out through a model where the state is responsible for funding and also takes responsibility for risk, and private entrepreneurs are responsible for development. But to turn that model upside down and think that private risk and capital want to go into all road and track projects is getting too dwindled. So regardless of whether we set up infrastructure funds, whether we have AS and other companies and also raise loans, it's the state investment that's the foundation if we're going to make a quick enough investment. I am calling for the bet of the Right and Christian People's Party. Where is the state funding that we all know needs to be put in place if we are to expand quickly enough? As the Progress Party sees it, it will be independent of the model chosen in different projects, in the vast majority of cases such that the State will have to provide the main funding. That's why I challenge the Right and Christian People's Party on this. So, although I am a fairly fresh member of the Transport Committee, I have problems finding this investment both in the budget and in the national transport plan. On the other hand, when talking about different funding models, I would also challenge the Right Party and the Christian People's Party whether toll financing is one of the models that they want, and which is implicit in their funding. Because after yesterday's interpellation on toll financing, where neither the Right Party nor the Christian People's Party were on this platform, there is a lot that is unclear about the political will and stance of funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2102	For a while ago there was a statesman who thought trickery, and who was concerned that we were going to implement new forms of financing and new ways of getting more on the road and more on the railway. I think that this countyman, who had some experience from being a finance minister earlier, had some of these experiences, and I also think that the countyman was concerned that people would come to work in time, come to work predictablely and come home again. I saw to my delight in the evening post yesterday that the county that has now become the finance minister had a co-conspiracy that also thinks cleverly and wisely about using new forms of funding and new forms of organization that would ensure more to go, more to the railway, with other instruments than the current government, where both are members, have. And I see that there was a lot of promise in the Minister of Transport saying yesterday about thinking new and being in open dialogue for two years until the new National Transport Plan, only lasted exactly one day, and it was taken down. This transparency is probably present, but the will and belief that there are other forms of funding have been brought down, and we're back on the same track. With today's National Transport Plan, the government is $2.3 billion behind in the first turn. So even if you say that the national transport plan is about a lot of money, you're going to get less for that money, and it's a historically low measure, measured by gross domestic product, when you compare it to what you've done in the past. And we also see that in the case of the hundreds of billions that the government is dealing with, it's 50 pst. – at least large shares – private money, paid by us who pass these bombs from time to time. Private money's good enough. The investment in the national transport plan will take 30 years before we receive double tracks throughout the intercity triangle, Halden–Oslo–Skien–Lillehammer. It is no wonder that the confidence in the provision of transport, especially within the collective solutions of the NSB and the railway, is at a low level, although the love of the train is still great, and so seen is a window to be able to bet on traffic. But I'm recording that the government is deprioritising, not willing. Other forms of funding have been proposed – Public Private Cooperation, real-life project organisation, fund setting-up. The government won't. The three projects referred to by the Council of State are not real project funding methods. It's some sort of budgeting. You have to have it, but we don't get any more of the farms, either by more roads, more predictable roads, faster roads, cheaper roads, or by trying this on the railways. We haven't done that in Norway before, and we should. It is also the case that the Right has proposed the modernisation of the Railway Agency. We have also looked at a clearer division of responsibilities between the Railway Agency and the NSB. The National Audit Board has pointed out that precisely the organisation of the division of responsibilities between these two is contributing to the failure of regularity, to the lack of clarity of responsibilities and, in the sense, to the failure of the train. The government will not participate in the modernisation process. So it's saying that Europe does. Europe is looking at both new, modern forms of funding and at a different type of organisation, from what has been state monopolies to having modern transport organisations. It should also be the case in Norway that Norway's State Railways were a modern transport company, which used to tender in Europe, which went ahead, which was intended to carry passengers from a to a, and used trains and buses where it had to fit. Europe is rethinking. In its planning period, France builds 4 000 kilometres of high-speed rail and refurbishs. They finance it by three-thirds, with one-third on private, one-third on the regional and one-third on the state. It is this way that the Right proposed to set aside 50 billion kroner in funds to be able to resume – not increase, but resume – the pursuit of maintenance. The government won't. ‘The seven sisters’ mentioned in the report of the Eastern Cooperation, which, together with colleagues from the Council of State, has helped us to have new arrangements for development projects, I believe that we will end up becoming two brothers, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, who will not see trade in a social planning system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2121	It's an important debate that the interpellation travels. There is a great need, and Norway has a great financial strength. I agree that there must be new thinking. When we're going to think about something new, we don't have to think so new that we don't bring the best in the old. The best in the old is, among other things, what is called cash is king – in English ‘cash is king’. This is what successful business leaders in Norway live by. It's cash that's king, because by paying cash you get it cheapest. When the state has a lot of money, and the state has the cheapest money, there's no reason to borrow money from private people, because it would be more expensive. It would be a violation of the fundamental principle. It is true that one does so in Europe, but it is because European countries cannot afford to pay in cash. Fewer and fewer of them can afford to pay less in cash, but we can afford it. Then it's said that if one establishes its own economic legal units and can borrow from it, it's better. One can then borrow from the Treasury and get reasonable cheap money still. However, this will mean that democratic control or the political priorities that must underpin investment in transport will be less prominent, less possible. There's a clear weakness in that system. In the Financial Regulations, we have a principle, the cash principle, that all the expenditure incurred by the State is to be carried to the expenditure of the year in which it comes. Then we have the fact that any welfare improvement will gradually come into the state budget at parts of a year's cost, and is so consistently adjusted next year at full year's cost, but in the case of investments related to the Coastal Works, State Building, Railway and Road Administration, the cash principle leads to the spending of those investments on the year in which they are incurred, while the values created by that investment last for many years to come. That is why we have come into the situation where investments in the sectors I have now mentioned are difficult to put into practice in relation to welfare improvements. This means that we will be given over time for small investments linked to the modernisation of Norway. It should be one of the debates we should continue, to see how the allocation regulation adopted by the Stortinget that the Stortinget can change, and which the Ministry of Finance has to follow up, can help to give us a different priority. If we want to invest in government investment in that priority, while private sector activity is so large that increased government investment will lead to an increase in the level of wages and costs in the industries – well, we can't invest as much as we want because the whole thing is not being taken care of. So the whole time when it comes to government investment, it's the real economy that decides what you can rationally do every year. Therefore, the government's policy is much more sound than that of the Progress Party, because they add up to an activity which, in total, in the private sector and in the public sector, leads to an activity beyond the framework of which one has, thus getting a smaller road and less rail traffic back for money. But that there is an important debate, and that one has to think new, we fully agree, and we are looking forward to the continuation of that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2136	The President will draw attention to the fact that there is some doubt in time about Gunnar Gundersen getting the floor, but we'll see it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2139	It was interesting to hear Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, but I should like to hear a lot more of County Sigbjørn Johnsen from this pulpit, because it is a much more offensive man. There's a man who wants to use new models, new opportunities. So I would like to see more of County Johnsen instead of so much of Finance Minister Johnsen. So it's less than 2 pst. of the overall framework of the State budget goes to transport and infrastructure, and that is the big discussion, how to get this done, and how to cope with all the challenges we face in the transport sector. It's huge challenges. But I think it's a little interesting when we now register that some of the people who say they want to spend a lot more money on infrastructure and transport, also say that we have to go down to 4 pst. again, to the rule of action. The interpellant from the Right was very clear and clear that he and the Right wanted to go down to 4 pst. For the Progress Party, the rule of action is not the important thing. The important thing is how to spend the money, and how to spend the money in a reasonable and good way. So the representative Halleraker said there's a "tsunami" about thinking new. Yeah, it doesn't help with a tsunami just thinking about new things. It must be a tsunami that says that you want to act new, and that you want action, and it must also be political will to act. The finance minister pointed out that it is about prioritizing how to spend money that the state has. He was clear that it is important also to do something about maintenance, and I fully agree with the Minister of Finance. Maintenance is incredibly important, and building new infrastructure is incredibly important. So the finance minister goes on to say, no one needs to borrow money when we have so much money in shares or in bank deposits,'money in the bank', as the finance minister called it. It is perhaps because the finance minister thinks it is so important to have so much money in the bank that it is the drivers who have to pay, because now it is the drivers who pay most of the investment in infrastructure in this country. Thus, it is not the state that takes the high cost, because the drivers have already paid in the form of taxes and taxes on cars and car-related taxes, as well as being charged tolls, so-called local initiatives, which more and more of those who have supported the so-called local initiatives experience as something quite different from local initiatives – they actually experience it as state blackmail. I also think that in this debate, and so far in the debate that has been going on in public space in recent years, there are some political parties that have a slightly different flag, and they lift and lower the flags a little depending on the type of debate they have. Because when you look at what you put forward in the state budget, which you might have to deal with, which is the world of reality, you see that there's a big difference between what you say and what you actually do in the priorities of the different parties. The finance minister talked about how to use the money, that you have a lot of money that you can spend in a reasonable way, and then he says it's about ‘political priorities’. Yes, it does. I want to draw up an example that might illustrate how hopeless it is that there is no political will of the majority to invest more in the construction of infrastructure: in 2010, we will probably spend 28 billion kroner on accidents – 28 billion kroner. We spend NOK 18.9 billion back on infrastructure on the road, and this concerns both operation, maintenance and investment. In addition, SEK 7.5 billion comes in tolls. If we had spent between 5 and 6 billion kroner and taken the 500 worst accident sections and got the middle parts up, we would have reduced the number of fatalities in traffic by 80 to 100. It's an investment that would have made us get the money back in two to three years. In addition, 80–100 people would also be prevented from losing their lives in traffic on Norwegian roads after doing so. It's amazing that you can't see here that there's actually both the opportunity to save society at great cost and not least save families and friends to lose people in traffic. We have a zero vision, but it's not willing to follow the zero vision that all the political parties agree on. This is about how to spend the money. If you use the money properly, you can actually reduce the number of people who are injured and killed in traffic in Norway, and that is incredibly profitable. And unlike the finance minister, who wants the money to be in the bank, I want us to use the money to invest now. Then we can harvest in the future, and we can use the money that we use today, for example. spends on accidents, or business spends in the form of increased transport costs, on investments that can be reaped in the future, at low costs both in the case of accidents and in the case of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2156	The next speaker is Mr Torgeir Mikalsen, and we may also have time for Mr Gunnar Gundersen. The President makes it clear that an interpellation is a maximum of 11⁄2 hours, and we're running now and counting minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2159	Then I'll make it short. It has been interesting to follow the debate, on an interesting topic, with – what to say – a lot of different approaches to the question. It is only said that roads and railways and communications in general in Norway are a hot topic, for various reasons. I'm going to come back to that, but first I just want to make a few comments to some representatives' claims that the large oil revenues that we have phased into the Norwegian economy since the birth of the rule of action in 2001 were to be used for some special purposes, where infrastructure, road and track were one of them. Yeah, I totally agree with that. There is a good reason for that, because what it was supposed to be, was that when you saw that there were some extraordinary revenues that were to be phased into the Norwegian economy over time, it was important that that money was used to increase the growth power of the Norwegian economy. But I think it is wrong to look at the examples that the Stortinget used at the time for treatment, namely research, education, roads, railways and tax havens, as an exhaustive list of what could be sensible measures to increase Norwegian growth. I am still happy to see representatives in this Chamber standing on the pulpit and saying that roads and railways are more important for Norwegian growth and are more important to priority than, for example, roads and railways. investments in child protection, education, kindergartens, etc. When we talk about investments for the future, I can't understand that it's anything less worthwhile than spending money on the railways and the roads. If we agree on such an approach, the main problem still remains, which many of the representatives in this room are unable to answer: the reason we are a little bit in this mess, that we are unable to take care of key sections around the whole country, that we also feel that many places around the country have the most variable quality on the asphalt deck, that trains do not go, etc., is that changing governments over a long time have not spent the money on what we in this room seem to agree that we should do; we have spent them on completely different things. So you could say it's wrong. But that's the problem. To these alternative forms of funding: I'm open to discussing anything that could get more out of each krona, but I just don't believe that the answer is necessarily to run with what the finance minister calls 'creative bookkeeping', because that's what unfortunately is. The main problem, why we're standing there, is about two things: that the level of appropriations over time has been far too low in relation to ambitions, and that the Storting has not managed to man up to say that some projects should go ahead of others. In other words, we've started too many individual projects with small start-up appropriations from year to year, which means you can't follow-up the following year, and then put the plug in, and we feel that there's completely inappropriate progress in many of these projects. And then we get these examples, like from the routes around Oslo, where you could probably save a lot of money if you had the guts to say that this project is going to go ahead of others. To my co-representatives: we all have opportunities to make more consistent progress in many of these projects, but then I think we also have to be willing to say that some projects are more important than others. In the end, I just want to say that this debate has again shown – and it is good that we are now discussing a little more policy soon – that there is complete disunity on the civil side, on the Right – and in so far also the Christian People's Party, i.e. several of the bourgeois parties minus the Progress Party – acknowledges at least that there is a framework against a real economy that makes it not necessarily how much money you have in the bank, which determines how much you can engage in activity in the Norwegian economy. It has something to do with how many engineers, how many professionals, how many cubic meters of cement you get – while in the Progress Party I have the impression that you have no idea at all about it. It says that these alternative forms of funding should go almost outside the ordinary budgetary process, they should go in addition to everything else they do. Then I think we're going to experience one thing, and there have been several representatives around here: what's going to happen is that we're going to get a special level of interest, a dollar rate and costs are going to be even greater than we've seen, and then we're going to get a little less way and a path for money. On the red-green side, we have shown that we are able to prioritize road and rail in front of other good purposes. We have shown that we are able to prioritise individual projects in the budget that have predictable progress, but we are also able to prioritise it within a more normal economic framework. I record that on the civil side you are not able to reach the same agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2178	Then the President gives the floor to Gunnar Gundersen, and makes it clear that we have a record of twelve speakers, with five minutes each, in the interpellation, which we have jerked in an hour and a half. Gunnar Gundersen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2183	Thank you, President. That's nice. After that article of the Micalsen there could probably be more articles, because I can see that it was a powerful post for OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2188	We don't have time for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2191	I also think that the government should concentrate on governing according to its assumptions and not always focus on the Progress Party. I also belong to those who, at least in this area, like County Johnsen better than Minister of Finance Johnsen – not all areas. I think it's been enough of quotes, but I was somewhat reminded when I read Madeleine Albright's biography, what she wrote when she had moved from the Senate to a job with the president, and had to answer her own letters, "What you see depends on where you are." The Minister of Finance is likely to be able to sign it. During the speech to the Minister of Finance, one could turn the debate against whether the Right would circumvent the rule of action, and I can very clearly refute it. I would rather fear that the Minister of Finance would go away from the rule of action as it is set up. We've heard from both Mr. Torgeir Micasen and the Minister of Finance that you don't take that list of priority investments in particular, and there may well be some of the issues: because we can all agree that the money should be spent wisely, and that you should try to give the right priority, but that's exactly what you did by setting up this list. Around the country, there is now becoming quite as much frustration in the situation of the exact movement. The NHO has shown that this government has spent only one out of ten dollars on the priority investments the rule of action should have been applied; there were eight out of ten in the previous period. Well, that shows what it's all about to be a priority. I sincerely hope that the Minister of Finance can confirm that he is also aware that it was not just the four percent that was involved with the rule of action, it was also a priority for how the money was to be spent. Not all areas of society were included, because that was almost what you could get the impression of. So a little bit about OPS up against the cash principle. The principle of cash has been tried out, and I think, as I said, that the Mica actually made a powerful contribution to OPS. We've shown that we can't get to the priorities that make us get to long, larger projects. There will be small start-up appropriations, and you will continue to pick up, and it will take a long time for the projects to be completed. OPS has shown rapid implementation, effective implementation and innovation in the process itself. That's pretty important. So going away from the cash principle is not to deprioritize – now it was gone what I was going to say. OPS has shown that precisely the objectives of Torgeir Micasen are being achieved, and that gives us the projects we are after. Freddy de Ruiter was in on this with more taxes. We now know that we have a freedom of action until 2020. Then the government's expenditure rises quite sharply. The infrastructure needs to be improved, and, as I have said before, there is an uprising going on. Now, if you can't give priority to the central trajectories, on which the entire value creation in the country depends, and on which business around the country depends, then I think you're going to see strong reactions to what you're doing. That's enough to remind you of roads like E6 and Rv. 2, which the former county knows well about the problem around – also in Hedmark. The debate has shown that we are talking a lot about NTP and the objectives there. The framework is increasing, but the effectiveness of its implementation is not increasing. We can't follow the framework. We are already behind in the first year of the budget, and it is too weak. So I had hoped to hear that the Minister of Finance was on the same track that the Minister of Transport was on yesterday – that OPS is currently in use. He has another post, where he can pull himself in again and say that he is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2212	I would like to thank you for a good debate on an important issue that concerns a great many. Allow me just a few small comments to some of the posts. First I have to say that Lundtigen and Micaelsen had an interesting approach. I think we should have a new debate if we really want transport investment to be part of the financial policy, or if we should perhaps make it more of a monetary policy. But we'll have to do that another time. Then to Freddy de Ruiter. I think he has to look a little bit at what kind of tax bills the Bondevik government carried out. It was tax relief for one purpose: to stimulate value creation and growth in the economy – and we did the same. So to Irene Johansen, who says that the Right wants to privatize the Railway Agency. We've never said that. We have said that we want an Avinor model or a Posten model – or what you would like to compare with. We still have many unanswered questions, and I and the Right believe that the Government has to clarify what they want. Who determines the transport policy? So here we get conflicting signals from the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance. Who do we believe in? There seems to be a consensus in the hall that we are building too little road and track. The roads are getting worse and worse. In fact, today, a study from the Statistical Centre showed that the proportion of bad roads has increased from 38 to 42 pst. from 2007 to 2008. This continues to increase. Why should we continue to build roads and paths in the same old way, which has proved not to work well enough over many years? It's a fact that we're building less roads than other countries it's natural to compare with, and much less railways. We see in practice that the organisation itself is important: In the case of the exemption of projects in its own corporate form – usually involving private individuals – projects are realized faster, more innovative and smarter, because responsibility has to be borne on for many years. It is very unfortunate that the Minister of Finance here rejects the initiative of the Minister of Transport, as I perceive him. Let me add that I also think it is a pity that the Minister of Finance is not willing to use his influence to influence politics in a direction he stands for, outside the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2231	As I discussed earlier today, this debate is essentially about how much money we are going to spend on investments in transport – that is, on the framework, on how much a user and what kind of choices we are going to make. It's an entirely straightforward and honest discussion. There was also some of the points in the now much quoted article that was written by the county councilman, as the finance minister knows well, and in which he recognizes – that it was about the framework, and the framework of the NTP has increased significantly during this period, by over DKK 100 billion. As regards the rule of action, it was mentioned in the 2001 decision on the ‘rule of action’ that a point of, for example, social investment, research and tax reduction was made. However, it is not possible to make a sharp distinction between different investments in relation to what is important for the future, and investing in labour and education is important. Investing in the way is important. So I don't think it's possible to put one in one box and the other in another box. I am still concerned that one should have effective progress and development of road projects and railway projects, and that one should use the money of the state in a sensible way. Then I also believe – and it has been made a point of – that it is like the government that puts its clumsy hand over the government councils – including the finance minister. I believe that all government councils, regardless of party color, are wise to listen to the knowledge-rich office we have, as a background for shaping politics. It's important. I'm open to recordings and arguments that go both ways. I think that is an important part of the political debate, and that is also how I see the Minister for Transport – that she is open to listening to the views that are now coming. But at the same time this is also the case – and I quote what the Minister for Transport said in the interpellation debate yesterday: ‘Whenever it is with OPS that the main finding is at a higher or lower cost than traditional implementation, and that gains can be derived through changing contract strategies within a system of ordinary government budget promises, I consider it important during this period to contribute to new forms of contract’.» So in other words, it's trying out what the government has now created, new forms of contract. That is to implement what we call project funding within the framework of which the Financial Regulation provides for it. And then both I and other state councils will deal with what the Storting has now decided and joined, and that is that one should not carry out any more OPS projects during this period. But I don't fear the debate or the posts that had to come in that way, and I'm open to both impressions and perceptions. But I don't shoot a decision – it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2247	Then there's case no. 7 finished. The cancellation will now interrupt the negotiations and take a break until 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox Then the Stortinget starts with case number. 8, which is the interpellation of the representative Nikolai Astrup to the Minister of Finance. - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2288	There is no point in debating how much greenhouse gas emissions Norway is going to cut at home and how much is going to cut out. That debate was decided on with the climate agreement. The debate should now focus on the measures to be taken to achieve the 20 pst cut targets. of Norway’s emissions at home and 10 pst. out by 2020 – while contributing to Norway’s carbon-neutral status in 2030. We agree on all of this. However, I am concerned about the pace of the Government and the results we have achieved so far. Emissions in Norway are rising, and they are likely to do so in the next few years. Government action in climate policy – as it is clearly expressed through the postponement of the climate communication – makes it difficult for us to see concrete actions at home before 2012 or 2013. It is entirely in line with the stance taken by the Government on the climate issue. There is a disappointing distance between word and action. We even see that the government rather consistently and actively chooses away the environmentally friendly solutions. It is reminiscent of the biodiesel car diesel tax, the high combustion tax, the low landfill tax and the unambitious energy standard in the new government building, to mention some examples, where most of them happen to be in the Ministry of Finance. It may be good to remind the Minister of Finance that our descendants will not judge us by our will to promise, but by our ability to deliver. The lack of effort and results at home makes it all the more important that the Government succeeds in the investment in international quota purchases. It is positive that the Government is using the market in the service of the environment. The market is known as an excellent server, provided that it is properly regulated. The climate crisis is due to a market failure which, in theory, can easily be corrected. It's too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly. The solution is to make it more expensive to pollute and more profitable to be environmentally friendly. Quota trade may be an important contribution to this, but it requires a quota regime that corrects the major deficiencies of the current carbon market. If the market does not function properly, both the world’s climate and Norway’s economy will suffer. No one deserves it. Norway shall cover significant obligations through the putting into service of the allowance market. By 2020, one third of the commitments in the climate agreement shall be taken out of action. The effort to preserve the rain forest, which the Government was forced to accept in the negotiations on the climate agreement, is, of course, excluded from this calculation. The need for quotas, or carbon credits, will grow significantly by 2030, as Norway will be carbon-neutral. It is therefore essential that the Minister of Finance, at an early stage, contribute to the further development of the quota system and ensure that Norway’s significant quota purchases actually cut the world’s emissions and that it does so in the most cost-effective way possible. There are many challenges to both the European ETS and the UN ETS. Under the European ETS, expensive cuts in the ETS at home will result in Norway subsidising emissions in the same sector outside. It will not cut emissions, just move them elsewhere in Europe. If we are to carry out quota cuts in Norway, the quota market must be tightened up as much as we have cut, either by allocating fewer allowances or by cancelling excess allowances in line with emission reductions. The EU's quota system has the advantage that we know it works. This results in a reduction in emissions in Europe, and it gives the polluter an economic incentive to implement climate action that costs less than the allowance price. However, a sustained low-level quota price will not trigger measures as real monks. The challenge here is that Europe's businesses are free to choose to move emissions to countries with less restrictive environmental rules instead of taking the cost of cutting emissions at home. The carbon leakage then occurring may cause world emissions to increase in the large picture, even if they sink in Europe. No one deserves it. Therefore, it was important to land a global carbon market in Copenhagen in December, and a disappointment that this was not possible. The EU quota regime works. There is more doubt as to whether the United Nations' quota regime is working properly. It is essential that the purchases of allowances actually contribute to the reduction of emissions. It is difficult and bureaucratic to verify. There is a significant risk that large parts of the funds allocated to climate action will end up as fees and fees to lawyers, brokers, consultants and public offices. The class struggle claimed on 10 February this year that only 27 cents of each climate quota crown reach the environmental projects they are intended to – based on an international survey. If this is right, it's very serious. Norway has good advice, but the Minister of Finance is likely to be the first to agree that we cannot afford to waste public funds. Nor do we have time to lose in the fight against man-made climate change. If disappearance, inefficiency and administration eat 73 pst. climate action is the unsustainable use of taxpayers’ and community money, but it is also very serious because international trading of allowances is one of the pillars of the fight against climate change. The question now therefore needs to be what the Minister of Finance and the rest of the Government are doing in order to contribute to more cost-effective management of the quota grid, so that the measures we are putting in place actually provide a global cut in greenhouse gas emissions. It should be a priority task, as trading in allowances constitutes – let us say – the last remaining element of the government’s climate policy. Pigs and bureaucracy are not the only problems with the United Nations' quota trading system. One of the reasons why it is difficult to find good projects is likely that the green development mechanism imposes strict requirements on the allowances. These include: contribute to technology transfer between rich and poorer countries. This means that, for example: hydropower projects will usually only be in the poorest countries. The government’s project in China was, for example, Member of the United Nations. Hydropower is not a new technology in China. In addition, it must be demonstrated that the measure would not have been implemented by the beneficiary country irrespective of the additional funding provided by the sale of allowances and that the measure would thus effectively contribute to the reduction of emissions. Most profitable renewable projects will thus fall outside a country such as China. The country does not lack capital – on the contrary – and is likely to expand water, wind and solar power projects if there is an economy in them. Of course, in other countries this may differ. The best proof that it is demanding to meet the UN’s requirements for greenhouse gas emission projects under the Clean Development Mechanism is that the Government itself has managed to meet only 660,000 carbon credits from a total demand of 25 million carbon credits to be met by 2012 – according to the Class Battle. That means that the government has less than two years to honour the obligations of the Kyoto period, and I meet with the Council of State's statement on how he will manage to deliver on that promise. The strategy seems to be drawing on far more projects than is likely to be approved, in the hope that some of the projects will pass through the UN. If this is really the strategy, it's not surprising that the quota grid is inefficient and that it takes a long time to target it. It is tempting to add that of the 660,000 carbon credits granted to the Government in the last two years, the Class Battle reports that 522,000 originates from a forest project in New Zealand. There is still an opportunity to buy allowances in other non-EU countries — so-called joint implementation — but the impression has always been that the Government wanted to contribute to the cuts in developing countries through the green development mechanism, not in developed countries. That the project is a forest project is no more encouraging, as the Government is very restrictive about entering forest into our own climate accounts. The project does not contribute to development or technology transfer in developing countries, but it is at least an approved project. This illustrates the difficulties that the Minister of Finance will encounter in achieving objectives, but also the need to look at the criteria of the Green Development Mechanism. A recent development could be to open up to demonstration projects for the capture and storage of CO2. What does the Council of State think should be done to further develop the quota system? If the system is not improved, would it be possible, correct and secure to achieve the Government’s foreign policy through the purchase of allowances? What concrete action has the Minister of Finance taken to improve the system and to ensure that the crowns end up in climate action rather than in red tape and inefficiency? I meet the Council of State's response and hope for an informative debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2360	On several occasions I have made contributions to the generation accounts in a more economic context. I would also like to stress that achieving the ambitious climate targets set by Norway – reducing climate emissions, ensuring that we have a sustainable future – is also an important part of such a generational contract. So economics and climate are two of the major challenges we face to ensure that the next generation takes over something that is more sustainable than what we might have today in many areas. Therefore, it is important that we succeed, that we also succeed in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. We must also limit the growth of emissions in developing countries. This is where emissions will grow most in the years ahead. It is related to the need to increase economic growth in developing countries too in order to achieve a more balanced distribution of growth and wealth in the world. It's quite natural that the rich part of the world should participate to do this job. We have a significant responsibility for today's emissions. At the same time, we will never be able to fully respond to the climate challenge simply by reducing emissions in the highly industrialised countries. The Clean Development Mechanism under the Kyoto Agreement facilitates our contribution to reducing emissions in developing countries through the purchase of so-called CDM allowances. Such purchases are also an important measure of over-fulfilling the Kyoto Agreement, as we have set ourselves as objectives. If we're going to achieve this goal, we're going to have to buy 25-30 million. allowances for the years 2008 to 2012 as a whole. By purchasing allowances through the green development mechanism, we can contribute to the implementation of climate change projects that are not profitable on their own. At the same time, we have to trust that the projects bring climate benefits. To ensure this, the UN has established a comprehensive approval procedure. Based on the figures we have from the UN Environment Programme, UNEP, the cost of this procedure can be estimated at about 8 pst. of the allowance price for a typical CDM project. We are confident that we will be able to achieve our goal of over-fulfilling Norway's Kyoto commitments by 10 pst. by 2012. The CDM system is not perfect, it is project-based and heavy-weight in many ways. But that is the best system we have today to contribute to emissions reductions in developing countries. Some of the points must be that Norway, together with other countries, is actively working to improve the CDM system and to establish better quota systems for developing countries. But this is a little bit more long-term work. The representative Astrup asks what the Government can do to ensure that Norway is able to meet its quota needs during the Kyoto period and until 2020. We will present – and explain – the outline of the quota purchase in the annual budgetary documents. It also shows that we attach great importance to buying from projects that are at an early stage. Progress in the procurement programme is good. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for: today entered into contracts for the purchase of a total of approximately 19 million climate allowances for the period up to and including 2012. About 1.3 million of these quotas are now on the books. The system is such that we only pay when the quota is delivered. But before this can happen, the quotas must be approved by the UN. We have also concluded some delivery contracts after 2012. However, a call for proposals for the period up to 2020 should not be seen independently of the outcome of the ongoing climate negotiations or the design of national instruments for the period beyond 2012. The representative Astrup asks what the Government is doing to ensure the proper functioning of the green development mechanism and that the management of the quota grid is less costly and more climate efficient. It is the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible, inter alia, for: work on the green development mechanism. The Ministry of Finance has primarily a role as an operator in the quota market. So at this point I am therefore answering on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development. The Green Development Mechanism is on the map each time the parties to the Kyoto Protocol meet, which was last done in connection with the Copenhagen meeting last year. Under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment, Norway participates in the negotiations on the further development of this mechanism. Norway, like most other countries, has sought solutions to minimise costs without reducing the requirements to demonstrate the climate impact of individual projects. Over time, Norway has contributed significant resources in developing good institutions and good regulation, and we have also allocated resources to a governance representation in the green development mechanism. In the climate negotiations, Norway is working to develop other mechanisms that can replace, possibly complement, the green development mechanism for the post-2012 period. However, a transition to such mechanisms could take time, and it is uncertain how important it will be in the period up to 2020. As I said earlier in my post, the so-called CDM system is not perfect, but that's the best thing we have today. In the short term, the option to the CDM system is not a better system but is not to do anything to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. We think that is a bad alternative. Therefore, the Government will work to improve the system that is already there, so that we can achieve what is a common goal, namely a total reduction of greenhouse gases globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2390	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his answer and for taking the time to participate in an important debate. In fact, there are a number of others who have also taken time to meet to discuss this important issue – and this is something we will spend considerable money on in the years to come. The council says progress is good. However, we know that very many of the projects that the Government has so far invested in have been approved. This applies, inter alia, to: hydropower in China, as I mentioned. This also applies to wind power projects in China, which are likely to be subjugated, because wind power is known technology in China, believe it or not – it is actually one of the oldest. First, I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to say a little bit more about what kind of projects the Government is now betting on going into, so that we avoid that of these 19 million will a majority of the projects be endorsed, as we have now seen. We've spent a lot of time and resources on the projects that the United Nations has approved, and we haven't found enough projects that we can go on. Then there is also a question about the EU market – it works, we know it. Will there be a current government policy to contribute to tightening up the European quota market by deleting some of the surplus quotas that we are currently selling into the European market? It will produce a guaranteed result, and it will be the most effective and cheapest climate action that we can implement – and that could have an impact right now. Let me also ask how the Government intends to work to improve the UN's quota regime towards the Mexico negotiations. An important approach could be to focus on obtaining sector-by-sector allowance markets, where, for example: integrate individual sectors into China, India or other countries and also conclude bilateral agreements in this area. I'm asking the Council of State to set it up. I think the council said that only 8 pst. the current allowance price goes to administration. But in the case of the project as it is, for example: is referred to in Today's Business, which is on hydropower, and in which great prestige has been given by the Government, there will be a minimum of 30 pst. who go to fees, according to the life of the day. The project referred to by the Class Battle insists that 73 pst. is acquired in the administration and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2405	The representative Astrup asked a number of questions that I have to ask to be allowed to come back to – what I do not get in my last post. I just want to repeat some of what I said instead, which I think is important for the matter, and that is that we per. the current date has concluded contracts for the purchase of a total of 19 million climate allowances for the period up to 2010. Of these, 10 million are contracts that we have concluded relatively recently, and the last contracts have been published on our websites last Monday, 22 March. Then I also said that they are only delivered to the state account after the project has been approved by the UN, and after the emission reduction itself has taken place and has been verified. Therefore, it takes some time for the contract to be signed until it is in our account. Then I would also like to inform you that the Government currently has a discussion about alternatives, so that we can be more sure that we can achieve the goals we have set with regard to the Kyoto Protocol. In this case, we will come back to Stortinget with it, and a natural way to do it is to mention this in the context of the revised national budget, i.e. the status, as an update for the Storing regarding where the matter is now. With regard to the claim made by the Class Battle that only 27 cents of each climate crown reach the environmental projects envisaged: this CDM mechanism shall also provide incentives to implement climate projects that are not economically viable without revenues from quota sales, as I said before, but so that these projects bring climate benefits. In order to ensure such additionality, as it is called, the UN has established a quite comprehensive procedure to achieve this. The 8 percent that I mentioned is based on UNEP figures – the cost of that procedure can be estimated at about 8 pst. of the allowance price for a typical CDM project. In the case of the Class Battle Article 10 February of this year, it refers to a report produced by a company called Carbon Retirement. It is worth noting and stressing that Carbon Retirement has a business model that is about to sell a directly competing product to allowances from the green development mechanism. So at least for my own part, I want to be a little careful to pay too much attention to reports from market players who have economic interests as part of their conclusion. But it's important, as I said before, that we're working on finding more efficient and good quotas that make sure, of course, that we also make sure that a maximum part of the price goes to what it's actually going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2414	All the honours of the representative Astrup, who addresses an important theme and follows up work that was also taken by the Progress Party in the previous period. The Progress Party is very pleased with the quota mechanism and that the allowances are part of the Kyoto Agreement. It allows for a ceiling on emissions, while channelling funds to cut where they are most sensible to implement first – given that the system is working. I accept that in all the initial periods there will be minor errors that have to be closed out, and it has obviously also been in the Kyoto quota system. But it is important for the credibility of the system that it becomes as genuine as possible, that the money benefits society and is not used to ‘propel’ some who play on the system. It is also important in this context, at least from Norway, not to use an approach where only one buys hot air allowances from Russia and Ukraine to meet its targets, but actually ensures that when a buyer buys allowances from abroad, they go to measures that are real. In the political debate, the Government has boasted that their approach to tight quota allocation is the same as an offensive climate policy. That's right – if a tight quota allocation is that the government doesn't allocate all of the allowances as one gets from the Kyoto system, but it's makin' them instead. And if you multiply a number of allowances, you're going to have fewer allowances in circulation, and then you're going to have less emissions than you would otherwise have. Then you can say that you have an offensive climate policy. On the other hand, what the government is adding to the tight quota allocation is that you should allocate fewer allowances to Norwegian industry than our competitors give to their industry. It is not offensive climate policy – it is simply to cut costs to industry and destroy their competitiveness. It should also be part of this debate. The government must take into account that the industry in Norway is the ones to develop new technologies to sell products that are more CO2 friendly than competitors. It is not helping industry by imposing a cost or an extra tax, which is actually being done. Especially contemptuous to industry, when the Government leaves to allocate quite a few million allowances, and only sells them on the EU market instead, and cashes in the gain. Even more contemptuous is it when one in addition says that one should over-comply with the Kyoto agreement and do so by purchasing cheap allowances through the green development mechanism. Then the government is a speculator of the worst class – they buy cheaply from the poor countries and sell expensively to the rich countries. That's probably the exact opposite of it one tries to get through all kinds of fair trade schemes, like SV and other 'hyper', but in quota policy it's anything but fair trade you're doing. Therefore, the Government – and in this debate the Council of State – should follow and adopt an approach to the allocation of quotas to Norwegian industry. The Progress Party travelled several times in this room in the previous period the idea – which also comes from the Norwegian industry – that Norwegian industry will receive more quota allocations if they are involved and undertake to do more R & D work at home, with the aim of cutting Norwegian emissions in the long term. This allows industry to have capital directly used to improve their competitiveness, rather than to fill the treasury with the Minister of Finance. In terms of the green development mechanism, we're also very positive about it. There is one way in which poor countries can get started with some projects that will improve their standard of living, which could reduce unwanted emissions locally, as well as cutting CO2 emissions from a global perspective. We see that the Prime Minister cynically uses this mechanism to transfer funds to the developing world, just to buy their favor to be involved in new climate negotiations. But – again – it is a good measure, given that it works. On the other hand, the examples that came from the representative Astrup show that there are many reasons to ask questions as to whether it works according to the intentions. The Progress Party will encourage the Government to bring Norwegian industry out more when making a CDM project, to ensure that new projects benefit the recipient country – but also to ensure that a take-off with Norwegian technology is helped to commercialise this. This will stimulate R & D work at home, although the domestic market is not there because one knows that the Norwegian government, the Norwegian big business, has a policy where they will have an outdoor market using Norwegian purchases of climate quotas. There are projects that can make a difference. In fact, for once in climate policy, the government can be a helper to the industry, and not one who only imposes costs on them and calls it an offensive climate policy. Thank you for a well-judged debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2439	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for an important interpellant. I also think the debate so far has become a political debate on quota purchases, not a technical debate on quotas. I think that is important for this type of debate. By means of the climate agreement, we set ambitious targets. We're going to reduce our own emissions here in the country by 20 pst. by means of national measures, we will meet our international commitments by 10 p.m. and it will be done through the purchase of allowances through the CDM mechanism. Work to reduce emissions in developing countries is a key element of the Government’s climate policy. We know that this is both about justice and necessity. ‘Justice, because it is the rich countries that have the primary responsibility for the climate problem. Necessity, because it is in developing countries that emissions are now increasing so enormously.’ This is the Government's own word. Me and the Christian People's Party are following the government's line of thinking about justice in terms of who has released the greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, in a historical perspective. I can also take a long way to follow something of the government's necessity idea. But it must be allowed to ask questions about this necessity in relation to whether it is such that the government's failure to reduce its own emissions in Norway makes us more dependent on the CDM quotas than we should have been. We rely on these to meet our own emission obligations. I can't see that there are any grounds for thinking that we, as a rich, high-emission country, are fulfilling our own obligations under international law in terms of emissions cuts by means of land measures that barely emit greenhouse gases. We're releasing 12 tons of greenhouse gases this year, most developing countries 2 tons. This is also a perspective that is important to have in this debate. Therefore, my question becomes to the Council of State: Is it so that the Government makes up that part of our Kyoto obligations and the over-fulfillment of 10 pst. to be taken through CDM allowances? The Council of State said in its final article to the interpellant that there is a discussion going on about how we are going to achieve our Kyoto targets, that the Stortinget might be presented to this public discussion through the revision. This is what is in this discussion – that we have come too short through our own national measures, so that we now have to buy ourselves much more freely? So if we just look at the numbers for this – 10 pst., the overperformance – it's 25–30 million allowances we need in 2008–2012. We've got a contract for 19 million allowances. We have $1.3 million on a book, as the Council of State said. Then we have a great job ahead of us when we write today in 2010 and know that part of the large contracts and allowances that we had hoped to have fulfilled have not been fulfilled because of the approval system. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the UN is strict with approval, because there must be real emission reductions in the CDM system. If money is to be spent through such a system, we must at least be sure that the money spent on this will lead to emission reductions, and not only to the rise in energy consumption for new renewables, but also to fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2453	Together, we need to develop a policy to fend for the sustainable development of the environment. As the Council of State said, in some other contexts, most often in discussion about money use, we talk about our generational obligations – that is, to be able to leave to our descendants a society that is in better condition than when we took over it. Of course, this obligation must also apply in environmental policy. We know today that if we are to avoid an increase in the temperature of the earth by more than two degrees, measures need to be put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, we know that the prerequisite for this is better in the rich countries that have undergone enormous industrial development, a development that has largely gone at the expense of the environment. At the same time, it is important to encourage developing countries to reduce or limit their emissions. The Kyoto Agreement has developed different mechanisms. There are some years that are central to discussing and correcting actions in environmental policy. It's the year 2012, which is the year that the Kyoto Agreement expires. This agreement commits countries to base their 1990 emissions. For Norway, this means an amount of emissions at 1990 levels plus 1 pst. Our expected emissions are at 57 million tonnes of CO2. The obligation is to cover our greenhouse gas emissions with the corresponding quantity of allowances, which is 5.7 million tonnes above the Kyoto obligation. If we set the target of over-fulfilment of the Kyoto agreement, which was agreed in the climate agreement, we will have per year. Today there is a need to buy well 5 million allowances per year. years until 2012. The next important year is 2020. We want, if possible through international agreements, to cut emissions equivalent to 40 pst, i.e. to 1990 levels. The last important year in this context is 2030. The goal must be to reach an agreement that makes us carbon neutral. If we are to achieve these ambitious objectives, mechanisms need to be set up that are effective and not least exorbitant. It already turns out that some of the mechanisms that are in place are not as effective and measurable as we would like. Of course, this is due to many things. In this context, I would like to say that it is important to learn from the developments that are taking place so that we can look back in 2020 and 2030 on today's challenges as child diseases. Because the quota market is developing, and through our significant purchase, we are thus contributing to the development of this market. At the same time, we should not be informed in the sense that we only relate to the development that is taking place within this field. We might as well take on a driving role in the development of good mechanisms. I believe we do that today. The interpellant addresses the green development mechanism, Clean Development Mechanism, also known as CDM. This is project cooperation between countries that have numerical commitments, and countries that do not have them, most often developing countries. The objective is, of course, emission reductions, but also sustainable development. In other words, as richly developed countries, we go into projects in developing countries, and that's the whole point. It is an important objective to oblige rich countries both to pay for their own emission reductions and to contribute to financing emission reductions in poor countries. In fact, even if we in the rich part of the world and all developed countries reduce, or even zeros out, our emissions, this will not be enough to reduce emissions at all, because the growth of emissions in developing countries is too high. That's why CDMs are important. In order to develop good institutions and legislation in CDMs, we need to be on and at the same time have patience in a developing market. But we have to take responsibility and contribute with innovation and ask critical questions, as the interpellant does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2475	Thank you very much to Nikolai Astrup, who will address the debate on how to ensure that the quotas we buy are as effective as possible, and are effective in both replacing emissions and implementing projects that would not otherwise have been implemented. This has been addressed with much criticism. A good part of the projects that were carried out have been identified by surveys that would have been carried out in any case. A good part of the projects are non-additional projects that actually replace but in many ways are projects that do not meet the strict requirements. That is why the UN has voted down a good number of projects in its control bodies and said that these are projects that do not contribute to reducing, which do not have a strong enough technology transfer. Therefore, allowances for these projects are not granted. This does not mean that the projects are bad, but that means that they would not be added, and therefore will not help to reduce the total emissions of CO2. It is one of the important debates in the future, which is about how to ensure that this works better. The second thing we know is that the EU's allowance market. Unfortunately, after the financial crisis, there has been a significant increase in penetration due to the fact that intra-EU purchases of CDM allowances, allowances outside the EU's own territory, are being opened up too much, so that we are no longer 100 pst. ensure that ensuring the purchase of an EU quota actually reduces slightly more, but there is a greater degree of penetration. This concerns working to tighten up the time that is coming, both through EU cooperation and international cooperation in the quota system. The most important thing we can do is to make sure that there is a ceiling on the total emissions in the world. No matter how much CDM mechanisms and developmental mechanics we have, and as long as the main focus of the CDMs is purchased from India and China, we know that it would work incredibly much better if we had managed to put in place a roof for the world's overall emissions. We didn't succeed in Copenhagen, and that's what we have to succeed in the time that's coming. That's why I think it's important to make sure to draw the focus back. If you look at the emissions from Norway – we are one of the richest countries in the world, we are doing well, we have to say, even through the financial crisis – then we emit three times as much CO2 as the average Chinese. The Americans release five times as much as the average Chinese. I cannot understand and understand that we are able to reach an agreement with the countries of the world that are economies of growth, unless we can show that it is possible to reduce emissions in our own country. That's why what's in the climate agreement, a reduction of two-thirds of the total emissions we're going to have in Norway, is extremely important, and I'm very pleased that we have in the climate agreement. I want to bring two challenges back to Nikolai Astrup. One goes on burning allowances. It sounds very nice to burn allowances. The problem with burning allowances is that in many ways it is exactly the same as overfulfilling our own obligations. If we choose to burn 10 pst. of the allowance, or if we choose to overfulfill our own commitments by ten pst., is one fat in all practical contexts. Then the question is, is the Right intend to make any suggestion that we should further overfulfill our Kyoto obligations? I have never seen any such suggestion from the Right. Then I also find it strange to say that you are on the climate agreement, while in a way you have some other thoughts about this. I like a discussion that says something about how we should possibly tighten up even more on these things, but some concrete suggestions from the Right about that I have never heard of it. The second is the question of how do we fulfill the cuts at home. I haven't seen the right side of the track either. We are now in a situation where climate change has been presented. It's a menu of what kind of cuts we can carry out. The debate towards the climate communication next year will be about what kind of cut we're going to implement at home. The best way the representative of the Right can influence this is by being clear on what kind of cut to be made, and trying to promote those proposals in good time before the Government promotes its notification. Here in Oslo, for example, what will be most effective is to scrape the biggest road projects. But there's Nikolai Astrup on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2498	The councils indicated that the company behind the analysis referred to by the class struggle, Carbon Retirement, might have its own agenda. Yeah, maybe they do. But the Council of State did not make a single attempt to refute that the claims they made were wrong – that 73 pst. of the allowance went to fees and fees. He pointed out that the United Nations process itself is eating 8 pst. What comes in addition, he did not mention a single word about. I think that is special, because the Ministry of Finance has to know about this vote. They need to know if it is right that 13 actors are inside – 13 actors from a poor country issue a quota until it is bought by a rich country. If not, if you don't know where the money goes, it would be totally irresponsible to conclude contracts corresponding to 19 million tons of carbon credits. I think it is very special that the Council of State has not been able to refute any point in two replies, so I welcome his comment on it. In addition, he did not comment on it when I challenged him on what kind of projects Norway has now signed 19 million contracts – whether there are the type of projects with forest planting in rich countries, as in New Zealand, or whether there are projects under the green development mechanism. It should also be possible for the Council of State to answer that question. The representative Heikki Holmås raised the issue of the cancellation of allowances. I would like to say that, in the context of the State budget, the Right proposed the cancellation of quotas. I don't want to say that there's further overfill when the uncertainty of the Kyoto mechanism is as great as it is, and when the number of approved projects is as low as it is. We know that a cut today is much more valuable than a cut tomorrow. What we can do, as we know today, is probably just as good to do to make sure of the future uncertainty that lies in the system, which we all hope we'll be able to achieve – that it works. Then I was also challenged on how to fulfill the cuts at home. We have had a lot of debates here today, and I also showed in my article on three specific issues that show that when the government has a choice, they choose at least the opposite direction: autodiesel tax on biodiesel – number 1, energy standard on government building – number 2, the combustion tax – number 3, the landfill tax, which is too low – number. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2511	We can probably have a long discussion about the last thing that the representative of Astrup was in. In that context, I'm aware that the biodiesel will be a hit in the future. For me, it is important to stress that this government has a very ambitious environmental policy, and I believe that the results over time will show that so is the case. In Norway, both emissions are to be reduced and emissions to be reduced in developing countries, among others. the allowance system is part of. What I referred to about the discussion that is going on in the Government, and with reference to the representative Hemdal, has no connection with the fact that we do not feel that we have come far enough. It's actually to make sure that it's possible to have a system where you have enough available allowances, so that we can meet the goals that we've set ourselves in that context. So I just want to say that the reason why the Government does what it does in relation to climate quotas is that we believe that the rich countries must make a significant contribution to reducing emissions in the poor countries. This is actually a central part of the Government's climate policy. It is both about justice and necessity – justice because it is the rich countries that have the primary responsibility for the climate problem, necessity because emissions in developing countries are now increasing enormously. If we are to succeed in reducing global emissions, there is no alternative to halting emissions growth in developing countries too with strong economic growth. Do we now have the perfect system to contribute to emissions reductions in developing countries? No, if we had a perfect system, we should have used it. But the alternative to today's system is not a perfect system, and not to make an effort to reduce emissions in developing countries is no alternative to the Government. Because if we now sit down and wait to get the perfect system, it might be too late before we get started. Today's system has its shortcomings, but it's a pretty good system, and it's based on common UN-developed rules that we're following. The government uses the Norwegian single fund to help develop the carbon market and reduce emissions in other countries. Then it is necessary that the system has legitimacy and that we ensure that there are results from the efforts. We then need a good, rigorous and transparent system, which only approves projects that contribute to sufficient emission reductions. The representative Astrup has raised a number of questions on which it is not possible to give an adequate answer, but I can assure him that if he asks a question, he will get a good answer. Otherwise, we will come back to this in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2531	That being so, the examination of case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2547	The NVE’s proposal for ‘Requirements for competence, etc. of civil engineering and territorial concessionaries’, the Competence Regulation, was submitted on 18 September 2008. The Ministry of Oil and Energy takes the further treatment of the regulation. The Energy Act authorises concessions to build and operate installations. This is interpreted by the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy to ensure that only the concession holder is responsible for the operation of the installation in question. The main content of the proposal is requirements for its own competence, requirements for the exclusion of services, the safeguarding of the competence of external service providers and requirements for concessionaires to demonstrate their own competence and to provide information to authorities in the event of substantial changes. So what are the reasons why the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy now consider it necessary to come up with the competence regulation? The main reason is probably what happened within the network companies in 2007. Then some large online companies, including Lyse and Hafslund, reorganized their businesses. Different models were used, but a similarity was sought to eliminate operational and maintenance tasks to other companies. This probably fell especially EL & IT Connected heavily to the chest. Here the said network operators would streamline their operations and increase the figures on the bottom line. This process has had to be carried out by other industries to survive. The fact that the broadcasters, which are essentially publicly owned and which are monopolists, are themselves in the process of improving efficiency, shows the seriousness of this industry. The network companies and the rest of the industry are facing large investments. Companies need to renew the old network and build a new network to link new renewable production and consumption. They must ensure and renew competence and technology. A total of SEK 150-200 billion will be invested in the power sector until 2020, of which half will relate to the network. That is and will be a great need for increased staffing. Rigid requirements similar to those set out in the NVE’s regulatory proposal will weaken the basis for the energy industry to address the investment challenges. The NVE’s regulatory proposal makes it even more demanding to provide sufficient human resources in Norway, and the industry needs to pick up staff from abroad to a greater extent than without the regulation. The industry believes that companies must have the freedom and flexibility needed to solve their societal tasks. In this context, any regulation of the transmission system operators should rather be made by imposing specific requirements on the quality of the services to be provided by the transmission system operators. Requirements and any sanctions would result in the most appropriate manner for companies to act. The areas in which the concessionaire is to be competent may also be required without imposing requirements on the size of his own staff and without requiring that an important part of his services be produced by his own staff. A survey carried out in 2009 — a project carried out by Xrgia, in which 42 companies covering 1.2 million customers have blacked out — shows that companies using competitive outsourcing are of better quality than those not. A rigid manning regulation provides impaired preparedness and poor delivery quality. The study shows that outsourced companies have fewer/shorter interruptions and higher efficiency scores. The NVE regulation will increase costs without increasing quality/reliability. The regulation will prevent local cooperation between concessionaries, for example: cooperation on operational central solutions. The operating centre is important for the recovery of errors. In several places distribution network companies cooperate on the operational central function with a regional company with both power generation and operation of network facilities. If the regulatory proposal is adopted, a number of companies will have to change their cooperation with the associated higher costs without any improvement in their preparedness or need to be exempted from the proposed requirements of competence. This regulation will be particularly demanding for small and medium-sized enterprises. These depend on cooperation. It's going to be very difficult to build up all the skills yourself. The selection of staff and organisation is a balance for each company. Individual companies are best placed to find local solutions. In other words, strong preparedness requires locally adapted solutions. The regulation of the NVE is an obstacle to this. We will have a fragmentation of large and competent professional environments and entrepreneurship environments, in particular this group which professionalises its operations in several areas of activity such as network production and district heating. The company Infratek plans to establish a national emergency response force. They can then mobilise an assembly strength of 500 to 1000 fitters in a short time. This is particularly important if major errors occur. If manning regulations are introduced and competence environments are split between network operators and contractors, the driving force behind and the ability to establish such a concept could disappear in a few years. In Norway today there are 140 network companies. Some companies are large, but there are many medium-sized and small companies down to companies with less than 1 000 subscribers. If the rules of competence are adopted in the present form, it will clearly go beyond the small network operators, and the number will be reduced. The regulation will require individual companies to have self-employed persons to cover most of the responsibilities. It shall ensure that the production, transformation, transmission, turnover, distribution and use of energy are carried out in a socially rational manner. The Regulation requires network operators to have the competence to perform most of the tasks. Small companies will normally need more than one employee with equivalent competence in each function, as proposed by the NVE. The network companies have very strong objections to the proposal for a regulation of competence. Opinions to the Regulation clearly indicate that the network companies want framework regulations and that the NVE should make clear delivery quality requirements as they do today. Organization and staffing are something that companies are constantly working to streamline their operations. If the competence requirement comes into force, the efficiency improvement and the outsourcing of tasks are already in progress. The industry claims that the number of network companies will be significantly reduced. It's amazing that the Center Party, which wants to fence around District Norway, can go in the breeze to introduce the new competence regulation. There are many examples of good forms of cooperation between small network companies that need to end with this new regulation. Sunnhordland Kraftlag’s central management centre is equipped to monitor and operate parts of the network of nine local network companies to which SKL’s regional network delivers. The cooperation with SKL varies, and works well. The regulation will put an end to this cooperation. Good forms of cooperation are also available today within Nord-Trøndelag Elektrietsverket, Bodø Energi Nett and Fredrikstad Energi. A new regulation will mean that cooperation will cease, and each network company will have to employ its own professional staff. This results in increased expenditure and often difficulties in obtaining the necessary staff. Competence within each area is limited and the professional environment may be weak. Except for the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the NVE and EL & IT Association, no one wants to receive the new regulation. It is difficult to see that the regulation has a different function than that there will be jobs mainly for the members of the EL & IT Association throughout the country. NVE says in the comments that it has not been given that efficiency increases with the outsourcing of services, as it is difficult to obtain good agreements. This claim conflicts with the general understanding of the outsourcing of services and is in line with the Government's reluctance to outsource and privatise services. The regulation gives NVE large control tasks, without meaning better and safer access to electricity for consumers. The new regulation is a clear input into the debate that the red-green government has against corporate transfer and privatisation. The regulation will affect public owned network companies, especially in the districts. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State decides that this regulation will not be promoted. Before a final decision is to be taken by the Council of State, the Stortinget should deal with such a comprehensive regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2593	The government is concerned about the framework conditions for Norwegian network companies. As the manager and owner of one of the country's most important infrastructures, this industry does a very important job, and they do it well. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that network activities in Norway are operated as monopolies in each supply area. In order to avoid some network companies taking advantage of their monopoly position, it is important that the authorities control the activities of the companies. Networks are therefore regulated by the Authority through, inter alia: energy law, regulations and concessions. Manning and competence requirements are not a new element in the regulation of the transmission system companies. Since its adoption almost 20 years ago, the Energy Act has required a concession to build and operate electrical installations. The preparatory work shows that the background to the concession obligation, inter alia: there is a public need to monitor the operation of such facilities in terms of responsibilities and maintenance. The conditional concession must therefore be imposed on the real operator of the installation. It is necessary to require the necessary competence and staffing to operate a network company properly. The key issue in the ongoing discussion of the competence regulation is the extent to which the concession holder can put an end to operational tasks and continue to be regarded as the real operator of the facility. It is necessary to make a concrete assessment of the individual changes in the organisation of the network company in order to determine whether the provisions have been complied with. The central elements of the assessment are the number and the tasks that are set aside. I record that the competence regulation has a great interest in the industry, that is understandable enough. The draft regulation of the NVE was sent to the Ministry at its hearing without any changes being made first in the draft. It was clarified that the Ministry had not taken a position on the draft regulation as designed by NVE. As several hearing bodies have pointed out, industry is facing several major challenges in time, especially in terms of investment. The Competence Regulation is not intended to be used for the effective and appropriate organisation of the network companies. Regardless of how the regulation is designed, extensive access to third-party purchases of services will still be open. The Ministry has now thoroughly reviewed all the consultation opinions and aims at the adoption of the regulation during the spring. The most controversial regulation is the requirement for self-manning in the field of error correction and practical maintenance within each network company. I assume that the regulation should strike a balance between the contradictions that have arisen between the industry and the EL &IT Association, and should be for the benefit of both parties. The concerns of security of supply, preparedness and socio-economic efficiency will be crucial for the content of the regulation. I will ensure that the regulations take good account of these considerations, while ensuring that the concessionaires are the real and up-to-date operators of the facilities. We should remember that the network companies are monopolists managing critical infrastructure. Both in 2001 and 2006 the size covered the scope for crewing of concessionaires in power distribution. In both rounds it was clarified that it was not sufficient for the concessionaire to discharge purely formal and financial responsibility for the business. Through the adoption of the Energy Act and subsequent amendments, the Stortinget has authorised the Ministry to lay down rules on the staffing and competence of concessionaires. On this basis, the Ministry is now carrying out the finalisation of the very competence regulation. Those who will be affected by this work are waiting for the Ministry's decision in this regulatory matter. Suggestions for Stortinget now I can't see that that's the basis for, based on the discussions and decisions taken in the Storinget earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2621	I thank the Council of State for the article. It really didn't come out very much new. The thoughts behind the regulation are, of course, good. What the industry and we politicians are worried about is that there will be too much control over small companies. There, I think maybe the Central Party should go in the front and fence about these small companies that are going to have major problems, to get staff for many districts is difficult. Getting a doubling of the staff, two for each responsibility, is very difficult. I believe that if the regulation is introduced and implemented in the manner set out in the proposal, drastic changes will be made to the structure of the network companies. There will be fewer network companies, which, as far as the Progress Party has previously said, will be an advantage, but I do not think that is an advantage for the municipalities. It is largely the public, municipalities and county municipalities that own the network companies. Therefore, the resistance of the industry to introducing it is very strong, both from the major players, who have reorganised and built large separate companies to deal with troubleshooting, to deal with line construction, etc., and also from the small operators who have concluded cooperation agreements. I mentioned that in the West there were nine small companies that had received central support from a larger company. This is important for maintaining the workplace and for the proper functioning of the small units. That's why I hope that the Council of State, when he's going to put his last hand on the regulation, takes into account that you have a lot of small companies around the country that it's important to keep. Finally, I just want to thank the Council of State for the regulation coming now. It's okay to get it completed if you want it first.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2636	I became a little uncertain about where the real concern of the Progress Party was that there would be fewer online companies, which I have seen that the party was actually and is for, but that is exactly what the party is going to communicate. The representative, Skumsvoll, is concerned that what I said in my post was not much new. That's absolutely right. It might have something to do with us having a similar discussion before the election in this room. This is the case, to say it cautiously, relatively well debated in the hall. My assessments about this are not very different now than they were the last time we discussed it. Then I can reassure the representative Skumsvoll about the concern that there would be too much control. The whole point here is to make sure that there's enough control. I have no ambition that we should have a regulation in this area that makes things unnecessarily difficult, contributes to unnecessary and rigid organisation, inappropriate organisation and unnecessary use of resources. It's here, as I said in my post, to find a balance between the demands of a legal entity that has a responsibility and also has an organisation that has a sufficient scale to deal with the most critical situations, and at the same time enough flexibility to allow companies to carry out reasonable disposals based on more economic motives and a thinking around operations. It shall be effective in relation to the system so as to minimise the costs to the consumer. I think it was the main part of the representative that Skumsvoll took up in his second post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2647	In my view, a discussion of what specific competence requirements we should set for the owners of our energy installations shows once again the one-sided ideological belief in outsourcing, privatisation and bidding. But is that always the answer to getting an efficient and rational operation? Is that the answer to creating security for a good supply? We have some fundamental and very important common good in our society. It is basic good, such as health care, school, education, police and defence, and basic infrastructure such as: transport and our common energy supply, all examples of common good that are vital to our society. I dare the claim that it is not supported so that these services get cheaper and better because everything, or most of the time, is going on offer. One should learn a little bit from the experience that one gained in the last years of the Bondevik administration, when the government, with the bulk of it, ordered the Railway Agency to resign because they were going to buy the services out of the market, a market that did not exist. This wears one with today, because they lost a lot of competence, a competence that they haven't managed to reclaim. The same thing happened to the State Road Administration. They were required to separate from Mesta, which was their production and maintenance department. It was separated as a private entrepreneur company and placed under the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The claim was that by purchasing the services in the open market, a saving of hundreds of millions would benefit from road maintenance. The news from the whole country was quite the opposite. Road maintenance went down dramatically, and a huge resource was spent on supply systems, not least a control device, to ensure that contractors followed up their functional contracts. I believe that there is a strong connection between holding responsibility for the day-to-day operation and actually operating it. If a set of operations is used, a set of operations also gives a good part of the knowledge and competence that you depend on in your own organisation. This makes one vulnerable, and one is given to others and the services they can offer at any time – just the experiences of a home from the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration. Purchasing competence is also a source of confusion. This poses a number of new challenges and questions. If the operator delivers a bad operation, does one then have the competence to assess the quality of a buyer? If the operator goes bankrupt or otherwise ceases to exist, one depends on others in order to be able to operate the service one actually depends on operating. This is an example of concrete events that can occur by outsourcing one service to others. One makes himself very vulnerable. Energy supply is too important to be the subject of short-term economic speculation. For this reason, I believe that the operation of the energy installations should be the responsibility of the owner as far as it is appropriate. Of course, as the Council of State also did, there must be a reasonable balance with this. But the main principle that owners should also operate is a principle that I believe the Labour Party will at least protect about in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2662	The previous article did reveal what this is all about from the Government. It's old-fashioned, blood-red, dogmatic socialism where an actually is going to enter and govern everything, because one is terrified of any kind of practical, pragmatic thinking and likes that someone outside the online company can make money by offering services and running things rationally. What we need to remember in this situation, where you get the impression that there are greedy capitalists from the United States who sit and rule in this business, is that it's basically municipal owned companies that it's about. So here you can see that the Workers' Party expresses a deep distrust that local politicians are able to choose the board of their local network companies to operate this in a rational way. It's got to be the Labour Party's problem, but it's okay that they get visible why the Government actually comes up with this. The Council of State points out that, since we have debated this before, the Progress Party raised this debate in the previous period. So the time has passed, and despite the time has passed, the network companies are as clear in their assessment of the case today as they were then. This is an over-management, a bureaucratic over-management of the ability of the network companies to operate rationally and efficiently. It's not about making it cheaper for consumers. It is not possible to improve the use of resources in the market. In particular, in view of the fact that the issue of Energy Edition 12 of 2009 announces a lack of assembly in the industry, the Government will have to go with a regulation that requires you to hire more people to do the job that fewer people have done today. It's pointless resource usage. There are therefore many people in the end who react precisely to the way public authorities operate. One can have as many intentions as you want not to have too much control, but how many are there that in a company have as a motto that one should control too much? Nobody's saying that. Everyone says we're going to do it just right. But what you often experience is that the intention that the council here has will end up in too much control. In fact, concession rules and such things say that you should control the business, and then you believe that controlling the business means that you can go in and define how many employees you should have of a different nature. Then I say, "Everything with a way of controlling." That's not what the Council of State says, that there's been a lot of interest in the industry for what's going on. There has been great resistance in the industry to what is happening. It may well be that the Council of State does not have the aim of stabbing jaws in the wheels. But in practice, what's going to happen is that one goes in and out of control of the companies in this way. It is worth noting, then, that both large and small network companies are now sitting and calculating how many more employees they need to meet the requirements of the Government, not because they are getting more work to do, but because they are going to comply with the regulations of the Government. It's not reasonable use of resources, at my discretion. The criteria on which the broadcasters are assessed must be whether they maintain the quality of the network on which they are imposed, not how many people they have employed to do so. The Energy and Environment Committee has been and visited Hafslund, so what I am saying now is not a secret to the Progress Party. But Hafslund was very pleased to have a flexibility and a certain staff that made day-to-day work, but also a flexibility in the system to be able to rent in from other actors when there were crisis situations, and in a similar way could rent out when others had crisis situations. If a staff is going to get bigger when a company is doing its own business, flexibility disappears in view of the efficient use of the resources available – with reference to the article I pointed out that it is actually going to be an installation defect. One may almost begin to suspect the Council of State – and there will be an answer to what he asked about what the Progress Party believes about the number of network companies – to have a strategy to make it less profitable to operate with a network company in order to achieve rationalisation. The centre party can't make it open and honest, because they're going to be district best friend on paper. But when we look at the staffing regulations that are coming now, and what that will mean for the economy of especially the small network companies, and one connects it as one also sees with regard to Statkraft, which in some regions has actively gone out and tried to buy up small network companies to rationalize, I don't think that's random. Both parts take place in areas that are fully governed by the State — and thus by the Government. I think it is quite fair to try to get fewer online companies in Norway. It is still the policy of the Progress Party, because it is the interests of consumers that we should have in the driving seat, not the interests of the individual director. Then I also think the Government should be open and honest about what it wants in web policy, and not say one thing, but pursue a policy that in practice leads to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2679	The new proposal for a regulation of competence which the NVE has sent to the public puts new and very extensive requirements on competence in the power industry. The competence requirement may not be suggested on the basis of the energy-disciplinary criteria. It is more likely that it is because the trade movement should have refunded for the support they gave to the red-green parties in the election campaign. She is, in my view, far in the way of an order shop from LO. It is easy to understand that the power industry reacts strongly to as stringent and rigid demands as it would be far from realistic in practice. There is a strong need for new investments in the electricity grid both domestically and in relation to the rest of the world. This winter has also shown us that upgrading existing line networks imposes high standards of competence. Variations in network capacity also reduce security of supply and lead to unacceptable and different prices of electricity in the country. This is therefore also a good reason to make good use of the competence of the power company today. The proposal sets out a standard model to be used by the power company to solve its challenges. It goes without saying that there are very different challenges in the network companies, and it would be very pointless to impose such a coercive strain on the power companies. The choice of staffing and organisation is an important part of a company's strategy for producing good and efficient services. There are major challenges when it comes to both expansion and modernisation in the power industry, and it goes without saying that standard approaches across the country are both old-fashioned and outdated. I am very surprised that the NVE is able to submit such draft regulations. The power industry is facing major challenges when it comes to recruitment in the years ahead. The average age of the force industry is high. The growth in the seniore is three times as high in the power industry as in the private sector. This means that there is a very great need for new additions to the network companies in the future. Then we have to make sure that we can make the best use of the skills already existing in the industry, and not introduce new schemes that make the difficult situation worse. It is very alarming to see that the new regulation can lead to the fragmentation of a good professional environment and that it can destroy good and well-functioning cooperation between different actors in the power industry. It is also alarming to see that the new regulation will lead to significantly greater costs without improving preparedness, quality of delivery or security of delivery. A letter to the Ministry of Oil and Energy from Energy Norway refers to several local examples of negative consequences if the proposal for a regulation is implemented. And as the interpellant pointed out: Nord-Trøndelag Energy needs to reverse efficiency measures that have already been implemented in the group, and it will go beyond important tasks such as state control, maintenance and bugfixing. Sunnhordland Kraftselskap’s central management company is equipped to monitor and bite parts of the network for nine local network companies. This cooperation will not be able to continue if the new regulation is applied. In my own country, the new regulation can have negative consequences. Sogn and Fjordane Energi are staffed to operate efficiently and rationally, and must have a high degree of exploitation of the competence of the company. This means that there is a need, at some circumstances, to acquire special skills. If the new regulation becomes applicable, this will lead to more expensive operations for the company and, in turn, an increase in the online and higher electricity prices for the customers. Right will encourage the Council of State to send the proposal for a new code of competence to the political scrappowder where it belongs, and instead find good pragmatic solutions to how we can exploit the resources and competences to meet the challenges of future energy supply. Instead of imposing detailed requirements for the manning and organisation of the network company, the regulation should be made by imposing specific requirements on the quality of the services to be provided by the network operator. Standby is an important part of these services. Authorities should take care of authority tasks by setting requirements and supervising, in line with such a modern public sector in 2010. Requirements and any sanctions would result in the company setting up in an appropriate manner. It may also lay down requirements for the area of competence of the concessionaire, without imposing requirements on the size of its own crew and without requiring the services to be produced with their own addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2711	Competing with operational and maintenance tasks of social critical infrastructure is in no way a new debate. It is not something we should take lightly either. Although the arguments of some have been incorporated into concepts such as ‘variability’ and ‘flexibility’ – I even belong to the fact that district argumentants are put on the path here – there is little that distinguishes the principles of this case from other issues where the right-hand side wants free slip, competition and less public governance. We live in a long country. Therefore, transport of materials and crews costs a great deal when critical tasks are to be carried out. We have many examples from different countries and sectors of what can happen if you lack the necessary self-manning where it is needed, when it is needed. In Norway, there is a very real problem. As the Council of State was involved, there are no regulation of the infrastructure to plague the transmission system companies. One could almost get the impression of it when one listens to some on the right hand side. The regulations are in place to ensure that the operation of the network is safe and that the resources are where they are needed. What's good for the bottom line of a company is not necessarily good for the community. If not also the districts have good staffing in the operation and maintenance of networks, it may affect the population, important public functions and businesses. It goes without saying that responsibility follows duties, and vice versa. There is nothing to suggest that making the operation and maintenance of the network into an open market product is good for the network. On the contrary, there will be a new opportunity to make money and to speculate that there is probably not going to be a need for large staffing in several places at once. The representative of Solvik-Olsen calls the Workers' Party old-fashioned, dogmatic socialists. When Solvik-Olsen said that, I began to wonder what the representative would have referred to me as, but I can only wonder about that. What's old-fashioned is the idea that outsourcing and outsourcing the infrastructure of society is a good thing. It smells like the 1980s, and the idea has very few merits to point to, historically. For example, the representative Rudihagen gave a good account of this. The simple and logical idea that those responsible for the network should actually also operate it also coincides with what will be best for pay and working conditions, I think. It is a good idea to claim that the Government has a hidden agenda on rationalisation, and there is nothing new about conspiracy theories from the Progress Party, but I am interested in hearing the Progress Party's answer, if any, as to why it is the main network companies in the cities that have led to downsizing and postponing competition in their opposition to the Competition Regulation. No, I feel confident that the government here will act wisely and act in harmony with the interests of the community, and not the right-hand side's need for more short-sighted thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2731	First some comments and comments to the representative Serigstad Valen's posts. Critical competence exists both among public companies and among private individuals. It's a fact that the oil industry, everything produced in the North Sea, there are private companies, while the Oil Directorate has a control, they have their fingers on the wheel. And that's what we want. Therefore, we do not want the regulation to be introduced with the bureaucratic leadership in that all companies have sufficient competence to carry out their jobs. We want it like in the oil sector, it's very important. Critical competence must be provided. Whether it's their own or whether you rent in, it's insignificant, just the quality of what the network company delivers is sufficient, people are satisfied. Consumers do not want to ask about one or the other. This is a pure impression from the LO's EL & IT Association, there is no doubt about it. There are many jobs, but it reduces the bottom line, and I totally disagree with the representative Serigstad Valen when he says that it is not so important that the bottom line numbers are not so good, only the consumers are satisfied. What the representative Serigstad Valen seems to forget is that it is largely public that owns the network companies. Dividends to municipalities come from this power industry – it is important for the operation of municipalities in Norway – and that it is an old-fashioned idea to operate infrastructure with outsourcing, probably not all of Serigstad Valen’s views are shared. It should not be necessary to operate with their own people, but with competent persons. That's what's added up from everyone in the industry. It's not right, as the representative Serigstad Valen says, that only the big companies in the cities are interested in outsourcing. No, the whole industry unisonly agrees that this rule has to be added aside. It is necessary to focus on the cooperation that has been implemented and used today. That's good results. Finally, I just have to say that we have had many interesting posts, but there is a clear difference between the views of the government parties on this matter and those of the bourgeois parties, and there is certainly nothing else to expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2741	The debate has well expressed the view that this is a rule that is more the result of payback hours to LO and the trade union movement for support in election campaigns, etc. I think it's some simple input into this. Yes, there is no doubt that good cooperation with the trade union movement is an important part of the basis for the government's work, but I think that when we are now discussing a regulation that the NVE has prepared a consultation draft, the connections are relatively vague, to say it very nicely, between the NVE as a trade union body, and the LO. So that part of the debate stays a little bit on the side. It is a professional job that the NVE has done when it comes to making a proposal, and then we will do a job to assess the final design of the regulation, but the basis for the whole process is based on subjects, and not on any ties and ties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2746	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2762	Unfortunately, this winter we have again experienced a situation of high electricity prices – extremely high in some parts of the country, especially in central Norway. It is with this background that I want to debate the force balance in Norway, and what we can do to avoid such high price estimates for parts of the country in the future. Of the debates and media images currently, we see that many individuals and businesses are struggling to pay the electricity bill. When companies are at risk of going bankrupt and people are at risk of losing their jobs, there is every reason to take this issue seriously. I understand people's frustration over this situation. Norway is an energy storm power, and it is difficult to accept that the prices of electricity, which we all depend on, will vary so much according to which part of the country we have chosen to live in. Electricity is an item that we can't choose from. Another important element is the signal effect of a high current price for whether companies want to establish themselves in these areas. I fear that, among other things, Middle Norway may lose ground within industrial development, because investors are alarmed by the high price level of electricity. It is important to stress that this has been a price crisis, not a supply crisis. Fortunately, we have avoided going to such a drastic step as rationalization would have been, but the situation has sometimes been tight. I record that the NVE – Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate – has taken the initiative to review price developments to see if some actors have speculated in production capacity to deliberately push prices up. That's good, and it's quite in place that the NVE is taking such an initiative. Both individuals, businesses and society as such must be able to rely on the proper functioning of power supply and price mechanisms for such a critical product as electricity represents in today's society. Power supply is among the most critical infrastructure in society. It is a well-known case that the Right wants a market with more players, and that we consider competition to be an important element in ensuring consumers both good products and products at the most appropriate price. Competition requires more players – generally equal players. State power has a very dominant position in the Norwegian market in general, and in central Norway in particular. In this context, it is tempting to point out that on several occasions the Right has expressed its scepticism for the dominant position of Statkraft. The competition authority opposed the fact that Statkraft would purchase Trondheim Energy without having to sell itself into production in the area. This was also supported by Right then State Council Victor Norman. The decision of the Competition Authority was then appealed, and in the meantime we experienced a change of government, in which the red-green government chose to overrun the Competition Authority’s decision. State power got to buy up in central Norway and has thus become a very dominant player in this part of the country. Part of the drivers behind the high price this winter was among others. Swedish nuclear power was out of production. Norway, as you know, is not a market alone; we have a common Nordic market. It is good that the NVE examines the situation in Norway, but perhaps it could also be an idea that the Council of State gives a hint to our Swedish neighbours that they should do the same. Anyway, this winter and these high power prices show that we are vulnerable to a number of coincident events. partly because such a high proportion of our electricity production is caused by hydropower, and this requires, as is well known, a certain amount of rainfall, partly because the transmission system does not function optimally, partly because we are the net importer of electricity for some periods, and thus depending on other countries producing a surplus. And – what makes the situation of winter difficult to accept is that we have experienced the same thing before, namely in 2003. Thus, it is relevant to ask what we have learned from the 2003 price crisis, and what has happened in the meantime to ensure that people and businesses in central Norway would not experience this type of price level as they have done in winter. Many people in these days are going to pay the bill. In reality, this must be said to be a bill for a failure of policy in this area. It's not to avoid noticing that the red-green parties, especially the Workers' Party, have had a lot of fun in the trombones in recent times. So the price crisis we've experienced in winter is a notified crisis. I can only regret the fact that the Council of State and the Government parties could not go in to start up the mobile gas power plants, thus contributing to increased production within this price range. This could contribute to a lower price level, and it could help people and businesses who now have to pay high electricity bills, at least knew that the authorities were doing what was possible by short-term action to improve their situation. We need to make our own power balance more robust, and we need not least to build grid capacity so that the country does not have to be divided into different price ranges with such huge price differences. Unfortunately, the situation is such that it takes a long time to build new electricity transmission systems. These are processes in which many paragraphs are either part of ordinary proceedings, or are among the municipalities and landowners affected and to be consulted. Proposed solutions can be anchored — often doing so — thereby further prolonging the period of application. It is, of course, important in network development plans to consult implica­tioned parties and to allow individual specialist directorates and other public bodies to make representations in these processes. But it takes a long time, and the question is whether it can be an idea to look at this treatment process again in view of further efficiency. I would appreciate if the Council of State would comment on the possibilities for work and focus on reducing the processing time on this type of development. If we are to ensure a proper balance of power, it is essential to have an overview of supply and demand in the power market. Here are many elements that determine the sizes we can set at the level of production and consumption in the years to come. In these questions we have to have a long-term perspective, preferably up to 20 years. It's a complicated picture. Norway produced about 200 tonnes in 2009. 133 TWh, of which hydropower was above 128 TWh, and the rest was from other sources, mainly wind and gas power, while we had a consumption of about 124 TWh – i.e. a surplus of approx. 9 TWh. It is planned for approx. 100 TWh new energy production, 30 to 40 TWh of which have been applied for or granted a concession. These plans include the development of wind power, district heating, small-scale power and hydropower. In addition, we have a certain production of gas power since the plant at Kårstø is now in operation, and with today's low gas prices, this operation may prove to be profitable in the future. Furthermore, the Mongstad gas power plant will also contribute gradually during this year. This shows plans for both the construction and diversification of production methods that fortunately over time may make us less vulnerable, but in the foreseeable future, hydropower is very dominant. According to the NVE, we will have a power surplus in the Nordic region of 30–40 TWh in 2020, of which Norway’s share of the surplus will be approximately 30–40 TWh. 12 TWh, i.e. something higher than last year's surplus. On the demand side, there are also many factors that make the overall picture: What will the process industry need in the future? This is likely to be related to the framework conditions of this industry in relation to competing countries. They're in any case a big customer in the market, and we see the importance of the financial crisis for production losses in this industry with 5 TWh reduced demand in 2009. Furthermore, new building will be built after each meeting of building regulations that make them appear as low-energy buildings – even plus buildings – that they themselves will be able to generate electricity and supply electricity on the grid. The replacement of the building stock is a relatively late process, but we are likely to have significant changes in demand for electricity gradually. We have to expect that electric cars will gradually take over large parts of the car market, and this will also lead to an increase in electricity demand. Another single element that is likely to affect the power balance is energy efficiency improvement. As you know, the EU has a target of 20 pst. energy efficiency improvement by 2020. Norway has not yet set a target, but it is likely that we have a very large potential, which will have an impact on the demand side of the power balance. I have mentioned many individual elements, and there are certainly several that affect the force balance. My intention is to demonstrate that this is a complex and challenging issue with many uncertainties. The force balance is such an important part of the infrastructure in our society, and therefore I want to ask again for an overall energy message from the Council of State – where the Stortinget would have the opportunity to discuss the power balance in a whole. The Committee on Energy and the Environment was in Brussels a few weeks ago on a comitology mission. There we came to understand that Norway has not begun negotiations on the EU renewable directive. At the government's accession in the autumn, we got an understanding that the Council of State was committed to coming on the same timeline as the EU on these issues, and I would appreciate the fact that the Council of State in its contribution can explain the status. In any case, the implementation of the EU renewable directive will contribute to concrete objectives. From the Right, the situation of this winter’s high electricity prices in parts of Norway is unsustainable. We have on several occasions called for an action plan to improve the network capacity of Central Norway. Norway needs a more robust power generation that makes us less vulnerable during river basin-poor periods. We want Norway to take advantage of the potential we have to further develop our role as an energy storm power. In order to stimulate increased production, we need to strengthen our cable links to the rest of the world and thereby our export opportunities, but also to strengthen the production of energy, we depend on a larger market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2814	First, I want to thank the interpellant for a good post. I think it was analytical. I think it was sober in the sense that the problems we have were defined quite closely and correctly, considering what this actually is, what this is all about, and what challenges we have. Because it's just to be honest that what we've been through during the winter, is not good, and I'm going to get into it. I agree that we have demonstrated vulnerability in the power system over the winter. I agree that the unusually high power prices are unacceptable, and that the regional differences are the same. It is therefore an objective of a stable power supply that must be at the heart of energy policy in the future. It's a foundation and something fundamental for Norwegian power supply, and it's once again something that's based on the concrete factors, the elements, in our power supply. We know that it is largely a supply based on hydropower. It gives big, natural fluctuations. However, the situation in winter is mainly due to a prolonged cold period, combined with the unexpected out of operation of important parts of Swedish nuclear power production. This has meant that we have had a low filling level in the warehouses over the winter. In addition, we simply have one too weak central network, and this year it has given a huge impact. Among other things, we have a situation with five price ranges. This happens in parallel with the fact that I believe that all politicians in Norway agree that the goal is the opposite – that we should have one price of electricity in Norway. For the period 2000-2009, average net exports have been of 5 TWh. In 2009, 14.6 TWh electricity was exported, while 5.7 TWh were imported. This gave a net export of approx. 9 TWh. At the beginning of winter 2009–2010, the magazine situation was around normal, while from then on we have had net imports of 0,9 TWh, i.e. net exports to net imports. The Nordic countries constitute a common power system. A number of electricity transmission links have been established between the Nordic countries and the continent. Norway’s electricity supply, which is mainly based on hydropower, is run alongside the power supply in the other countries, where we have a high degree of power generation based on thermal power. In particular, in dry years or in other special situations that arise, these foreign connections – as I have seen, the representative Meling was also concerned about – will be important for security of supply and for having an evenest price structure. Then we find that in winter it has not worked that way, but in more normal situations it will be the case. In periods of low water supply, Norway may benefit from production in the other countries, while other countries may benefit from Norwegian power generation during periods of high consumption, e.g. during the day or in reduced production situations. Foreign connections simply make it possible for us to shift between each other's resources. Overall, the power supply becomes less vulnerable and the exchange contributes to a better use of resources. The power situation in winter has demonstrated that we are not only vulnerable due to falling rainfall and limited storage capacity. When this nuclear power in Sweden is unexpectedly not fully exploited, we have had to increase production from both thermal plants in our neighbouring country and from hydropower production in Norway. The experience we have gained then clearly shows that we do not have to put all the eggs in a basket, but we have to spread the risk. We therefore want to continue to stimulate the creation of new power generation. We need more energy efficiency, we need increased direct use of heat, which can actually be significant for what we are now discussing, and we definitely need to provide a proper transmission system between regions and to other countries. So there's a lot of numbers around this that I, for example. has mentioned many times from this pulpit over the winter. We have major plans for investment in better infrastructure in the future and for better power supply in Norway. $40 billion is going to be spent. But to take what's a little closer, we're in the situation now that in central Norway the excavators and planters are almost on their way out to make a quite significant update. Nea-Järpströmen did not complete completely until winter came. Now, in cooperation between Swedish Kraftnet and Statnett, it is planned to complete it in the next few days. It could be a challenge for energy supply in the very short term. But it actually means access to 400 new megawatts in Middle Norway, if it goes according to plan, during Easter or not long after. With regard to the debate on access to energy in Central Norway, measures are now being taken, such as: has a greater net impact on the area than these gas power stations, which have been much debated in winter. This is one example of what's happening now, as a result of us being in a period when $40 billion is going to be spent online. As I began to say, the winter of the year is an unacceptable winter. There's been too much vibration. There have been prices in the Nordic countries, and also in Central Norway and North Norway, which have been too high. There has been a predictability that has been too small. Based on that, I have asked the NVE to take a look at what has happened. Then I mean a proper, thorough review, so that we get what has been the reason that the situation has become like it, and based on it can take a review to see what can be done to avoid it happening again. Consumers have been under an unreasonable burden in winter. It shouldn't happen again. As far as the representative Meling is concerned about Sweden, I have also announced that I want to have a process with Swedish authorities to look at what is going on information, access to data, what is of expected production in the different countries, so that we can be better prepared, for example. on disconnects, as we have seen in winter. There has been a debate, which in Norway has been largely about the situation in Central Norway, and that is not strange. But it is a situation that has been very much about having had an outcome in Sweden that has been formidable. Interpellant mentioned State power and the need for competition, and I agree that State power needs competition. I don't think we should say that one or the other solution for ownership and individual companies would contribute to the fact that the situation in winter had been very different, but what I and also the Minister of Industry responsible for State Power have said is that there are absolute limitations on how extensive ownership Statkraft should have in future in regional Norwegian companies, just to make sure that there is a dynamism in the market, and that there is a real competition. We're not going to get there that it's Statkraft and no other company that is responsible for power production in Norway. The interpellant also raised the question of back-up power plants. There is the situation that a few weeks ago I received a derogation request from Statnett. It has now been consulted. The NVE agreed to the application before that. I agree with that application that we will be dealt with as quickly as possible. Then I'll come back to the conclusions on it. But there is a message that has come clearly from Statnett, and that also means that we have a responsibility to get it processed quickly. So I think this is in the extension of what Meling's representative said, without me going in and shooting at the conclusions. The representative, Meling, also addresses the question of shorter processes around the development of the network. Yes, I agree with the representative that online processes take a very long time. At the same time, when we carry out web requests related to Sima-Samnanger, which is located in my department, and Ørskog-Fardal, I also see the great local commitment and many reasonable and understandable objections to single solutions on the line, etc. Here it is simply a difficult balance because many are involved. Many are affected by these major projects, and we must not imagine that those voices are not heard in the processes either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2844	I would like to thank the Council of State for his contributions. It makes a recognition of the fact that the situation we have had in winter is unsustainable for the individuals and businesses that have to pay a disproportionately high electricity bill. What I think is positive is that the Council of States is open to it and to the vulnerability of the power supply system and our transmission system. These are not new issues. This is, as I said, a price crisis that has been in the past, and that means that we have had a few years between 2003 and today where we have had the opportunity to do a few things just to avoid getting into the situation that we now got back into in winter. From the Right, I must again regret that we have not come any further, primarily on behalf of those who now have to go to the bank and pay large bills, and on behalf of companies that simply risk having to enter the years and cease activity because they are unable to pay these high electricity bills. But as I said, I appreciate the fact that the Council of State recognises the situation and the challenges. I have also heard with interest about the plans and measures that are planned for the future, and I hope, on behalf of all of the power customers, especially in central Norway, that improvements will now be realized on the network that will make them more at the price level that is in the rest of the country. I also noticed that the Council of State did not comment on the EU and the Renewable Directive and Norway’s position on it. As I said, the government and the Council of State were high on the track in the autumn to get on a timeline with the EU. In order to increase energy production in Norway and to increase the focus on energy efficiency improvement, the implementation of these EU Directives is likely to help set a level of ambition and provide an action plan. It would be nice if the Council of State could now comment on it in its final statement. Finally, I just want to repeat that in order to bring up the production of energy in Norway is one of the most important things we from the political community can do, to ensure stable, predictable framework conditions for those who will invest in energy production. These are cost-intensive investments that require predictability for many years to come, and it is important that we establish calm and confidence that the framework will be predictable, and not, as we have experienced in some cases this harvest, the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2857	First of all, we have not come any further in terms of infrastructure and networks. I've said it before, and I'd like to repeat it, that in the case of the matters that I've necessarily been more involved in after I became the Council of State, than what I had done before I was, probably the most surprising is about the state of the central network in Norway. I think we should distinguish between local networks, distribution networks and central networks. There have been different trends, but when, in addition to looking at the physical environment, we also look at the rate of investment that has been, with a dramatic fall in investment around 1990 and up to now, we also see a context here. There has simply not been enough resources used in maintenance and new construction, and therefore we now have a Hammerfest area that is not good enough, a Middle Norway that is definitely not good enough, a Bergen area where the situation is critical, and an Oslo area that also has a poorly developed central network. We shouldn't be there in 2010. So it's just to emphasize what the representative said, that when the situation is like that, you don't come from a to b in a very short time, because there are processes that need to be reviewed, there are networks that need to be built. But there's every reason to stress that things should have been done here before, and we should have had a smoother rate of investment from 1990 until today – and it's actually about doing something about it. I believe that we now have plans to do so. Then it's quite right, as the representative says, that I did not comment on the renewable directive. It was simply because it was the end of speaking time, and it was a long way down here. But the Renewables Directive is definitely not far down on the list in relation to working for me and the Government. It is also true that I have signalled an ambition to try to re-establish the EU in relation to the slowdown that we have as a result of the first agreement of the EU countries. I see it when we work on this, that matter is extensive. There is a lot of professional work to be done to look at the potential in Norway and to look at what is possible to obtain from renewable energy production in Norway over this period. We have talks with the European Union. We have good processes to have a common understanding of the framework for this and how we're going to work on it. We have said from the Government that the Renewable Directive is EEA-relevant, so we are, I believe, in a good process, both in relation to the EU and internally in terms of the monitoring of resources in the future. But it's a great job, and my impatience is there, while I find that it takes some time. But we have to do our part in order to take back as much of the lag we have in relation to the EU as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2866	It is an important matter that the interpellant has brought up here today. Everyone agrees that safe and good energy supply is one of the pillars of a well-functioning society. For this reason, it is important both to maintain energy installations that are already built and constructed and to have ambitions for the development of new energy. In addition, we need to have a continuous focus on the best possible line network to transport the energy produced where it is needed. The Workers' Party is both an energy party and an industrial party. We are concerned with safe and good energy supply, so that it can live people throughout the country, and so that it can be valued across the whole country. It's about using the whole country, and it's important. There is no doubt either that there was a marked change in pace in this policy area at the government change in the autumn of 2005. The short-term memory is like what we all saw, so I want to illustrate this with some examples, which you should also consider: Since 2006 and until today, we have set aside approx. NOK 7 billion for the promotion of renewable energy through Enova. We have set up an energy fund that is now up to 25 billion kroner, where the return goes exclusively to Enova's work on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. We have strengthened the NVE considerably, precisely in view of the development of renewable energy. As a result, the concession treatment capacity of the NVE is roughly doubled compared to 2005. The Government has concluded an intention agreement with Sweden for the establishment of a green certificate market from January 2012. We have introduced energy labelling of buildings, which will be mandatory from 1 July this year. We have just established a maritime energy law that will be an important framework for the future development of renewable energy at sea. In this context, for example: It is mentioned that in September last year the Council of State could participate in the opening of Hywind, the world's first full-scale floating windmill, located outside Karmøy in Rogaland. This is a project that would hardly have been possible without co-financing from the public through Enova. In June 2009, Enova had its largest wind power allocation ever, with DKK 1.1 billion distributed among four projects. These are just a few examples of the pace shift that took place after 2005 in our nation's energy policy in the field of renewables. In addition to the development of new energy, the Government has also made a major effort to improve energy efficiency, especially in the field of industry. It is a major potential for energy efficiency improvement in industry. From 2006 to 2008, Enova has been involved in some 100 industrial projects and is expected to save around 200 people. 2.1 TWh per years through this work. I will mention one concrete example of this, and it concerns the environmental project at Finnfjord melting plant in my own part of the country. Finnfjord had a meltdown of 175 million. kr in aid for energy recovery from the production of ferrosilisium. The project provides 224 GWh in new power generation for Troms County and is the first step in a larger energy efficiency project. By ensuring the clean power of the industry, we are helping to secure jobs, while at the same time taking into account the climate. Securing the industry energy is important for the Workers' Party and the Government. Therefore, support for Finnfjord melting plants through Enova is incredibly important. In recent months we have also shown that we need a more robust power supply in our own country. A cold and dry winter combined with closed nuclear power stations has contributed to a tighter energy market here at home. In addition to domestic bottlenecks in the network, this has sometimes led to large regional differences in electricity prices. In order to improve this in the future, we need both better grids and not least more power. The Labour Party and the Government will in the future be the guarantor of an even more offensive energy policy, which ensures not least jobs and provides people with security of energy supply in their everyday lives – and that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2909	I thank the representative Meling for addressing a good topic as a fine follow-up to the debate on the EU's renewable directive that was raised on Friday. However, it is still a surreal situation to have such a debate in a country with 25 p.m. compared to the EU perspective. of EU water, 50 pst. of EU gas, 75 pst. of EU oil reserves and 1 pst. by the population of the EU, and yet can characterise as many areas as critical in energy supply. I fully support the reality description of the representative Meling. I'm not going to repeat it. But I note that in this debate, too, there is a recurring tone from the Government how incredibly accurate they have been. It's a reality that I didn't discover when I was at Norwea's annual conference today, i.e. the wind power sector. It's a description of reality that one didn't notice at the Annual Conference of the Small Forces Association in Haugesund last week. It explains why you do not get the potential that exists in the Norwegian energy sector and that gives you the situation you now have. The challenge in Norway is not a lack of resources. The challenge is not that a lack of professionals with knowledge and access to capital. But there is a lack of framework conditions. Then one can always boast that one gets realized some small power plants, some wind power and so on, but the point is all one is unable to realize, that is put on hold because the government's policy is unpredictable. That's what's the problem here. It has also been a long way to go in this debate that you have referred to neglecting sins, like back to the Worm Lange, six years ago, neglecting sins that both the Center Party and the Workers' Party themselves were in – so that's what they're told – so they can't just blame a Bondevik government. But one would think that in six years, of which this government has been running for four and a half years, one had started a little bit more processes than just pointing to the Statnet processes that started under the Bondevik government. Nor can this government boast that they have given Statnet much more money. They have said no to the three wishes that Statnett has made to add more capital. Then one hopes for multiple cables. I cannot disagree with that, but I am still a little surprised that the Council of State is not clearer about giving marshalls to the projects that now exist, where the industry itself has said that they must have an investment decision in relation to cabling into Bergen before this Easter. That's something I want to challenge the Council of States in concrete terms. It is okay that you have a complaint procedure. I have full respect for the complexity of this. But at the same time, this is a matter that has been lying for quite a while. Can we expect a yes-response or no-response to the project before Easter, so if the answer is yes, one can get started, and if it is no, one can immediately start looking at the other options. Or can we risk a decision-making refusal to allow this project to run for another year in time? And then I'm going to give some other real challenges. It is true that one cannot build a gas power plant or wind farm overnight. I respect that. We have often said in such debates before that it is important to get decisions going, because the project horizons are long. It was more exciting to say that in 2005. Then I actually thought that things would happen. When we say the same thing in 2010 and we're still waiting for things to get started, we've actually lost five years. The concrete thing the Government can do is to do as the Workers' Party states in Central Norway have asked, namely to ensure that the CO2 cleaning requirement is removed at the start of gas power plant concessions. At least it will be able to speed up investment decisions. Is the Council willing to do that? That's a concrete question. With regard to the mobile gas power stations, there has now been a case for consultation. So when does the decision that they're going to be allowed to start, that they're going to have a concession? There is also a process that has been a little too long. Renewable bets in Central Norway are often something that many people talk about. Special representatives from the SV and the Senterpartie talk about the potential for renewable energy – fully agree. But the point is that in competition with others, the renewable projects in Central Norway have not been prioritised by Enova. In view of the situation in Central Norway, will the Council of State bring a separate package, for example: in line with the proposal of the Progress Party of 300 million. kr, which will only go to renewable projects in that region? It's a start. With regard to wind power: will the Council of State clarify the statements of many in the industry, that he sometimes talks about the objective of 3 TWh standing firm, while he recently said in connection with Enova's performance goal that the problem of wind power is that it's too expensive, something that didn't fall into good soil? In relation to small power, can he say that he is now willing to look at a transitional arrangement to regain confidence? On hydropower: is he willing to look at the tax rules, so that the tax rules for hydropower are as favourable as for oil? And will the NVE's study be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment and not just be put in a drawer in the government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2933	I would like to use my contribution to help the Minister of Oil and Energy to respond to the challenges that Mr Meling raised with him by pointing to a measure that will improve the supply of power, to facilitate increased deployment of small power plants. I fully agree with the Council of State that there is a great need to increase that production. I had the pleasure of being on the Little Power Days in Haugesund last week, and I'm going to promise the Minister that there was great will to help secure the power supply. By the way, he was missing, there was a part that wanted to talk to him, among other things. on green certificates. The NVE estimates the potential at land level of 25 TWh for new generation from small power plants. This represents more than 20 pst. of today's power generation in a normal year and covers more than 80 pst. of the electricity consumption of Norwegian households. It provides investment in the districts for about $80 billion. It will have a significant impact on several thousand landowners and rightholders, as well as on the ring-fence of suppliers and other businesses. Small scale hydropower generation has a number of positive features in addition to strengthening the power supply. It is a renewable energy source that does not emit greenhouse gases, and it can create industrial development and new optimism in the districts. For landowners in the districts, income from small-scale power plants may give loved ones additional income. This is something that should excite an energy minister from the Central Party. I am therefore very surprised that the Council of State and the Government did not help to facilitate the situation of landowners in the districts who want to build small power plants, but instead have chosen to strain bone hooks on some of them. In the proposal for a transitional renewable energy scheme submitted by the Government, the Centre Party and the other two red-green parties have broken their previous commitment to include small power plants built after 2004 in the forthcoming certification market. Only the smallest power stations, with less than 1 MW of installed power, and small power stations built after 7 September 2009 shall be included. All others who have built small-scale power plants in the belief that they would be included in this support scheme, are now using the box. Of the 185 small power plants that have been built since 2004, only 35 are allowed to enter a green certificate market with the Government's scheme. For those who have invested in small power, in the belief that they would be included in the support scheme, this is very serious. These are landowners in the districts who have made large investments and made large loans, in the belief that politicians would stand by their promises. They are now in danger of going bankrupt and having to leave the yard. Unfortunately, this is not the only example of how the Government puts obstacles in the way of those who want to bet on small power plants. Before they have seen the earth's spade and started to build the power plant, small-power owners have to wait for years in line with Norway's watercourse and energy directorate in order to obtain a concession. Today, 550 power plants in application queues at Norway's watercourse and energy directorate are standing to get permission to be built. 100 applications are processed every year. This means that builders have to be prepared to wait five years before they can start building. Bringing this queue down will be an important measure to improve security of supply, as the representative Meling addressed in his interview. Here the Government has a lot to go on. Another measure that the State Council should look at in order to increase the output of small power plants is the entry point for the base rate tax. Today, if you build a power plant with installed power over 5500 kVA, you will have to pay an additional base rate of 30 pst. for all production, but if you build a power plant below this limit, you skip the basic interest tax completely. One should therefore consider whether it is possible to make this transition more slippery, possibly raising the entry point, so as to avoid a fiscal adjustment of small power plants just below 5500 kVA. One should in any case avoid lowering the limit further, as today's government tried a few years ago. Facilitating the expansion of small-scale power plants in the districts may be an important part of the solution to the challenges posed by the representative Meling. But it requires a completely different attitude for those who want to bet on such expansion than what we have seen so far from the Council of State and from the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2956	This is not the first time we are discussing the power situation of winter in Stortinget, and it is right. There has been a lot of debate and concern about the timing of the price fluctuations we have experienced in the country's most beautiful region, namely Mid-Norway. Recently, there has been a fear of a new price shock in connection with the repair and maintenance of the network to Sweden. Fortunately, it turns out probably not to be the case, and that's of course very good. But the debate has so far, I think, borne the mark of some electrifying agendas and some selective memory among some of the actors who are debating. I could have remembered once again that SV warned that this would happen in connection with the expansion of the Worm Lange, but the bulk of the population threw themselves eagerly at the possibility of development without taking responsibility for the security of supply in the region. And I could remind you once again that the Right Watch faith in the market is not at all against the party's sudden recognition now in winter of the importance and desirability of political governance in the power sector. And it needs to be pointed out. Something is wrong when, at times in winter, it has been cheaper to heat the driveway or bubble bath at Frogner than to cook water in the Nord-Trøndelag. I will briefly address the representative Meling's use of examples. It's actually another discussion, but I can't avoid mentioning it, since I'm from Trondheim, and that's the representative Meling's visit to Trondheim. It is something special of the Right to use the sale of Trondheim e-works as an example. It was the Right that led in Trondheim, and it turned out to be a very bad store for the municipality. Right here we see an example of the ideological skyscrapers Right demonstrated in the previous interpellation debate we had in Stortinget. I thought it was worth mentioning. But this debate I believe boils down to the following: it is not only more power generation that is needed to avoid supply problems and strong price fluctuations, it is also the control of our power. Only that way can we get predictable prices for people. The lack of Norwegian power cannot explain that Mid Norway was a net exporter of power for many of the hours the prices were highest this winter. Requirements for minimum filling of warehouses and more intelligent electricity pricing systems made possible by new technologies, more money through Enova for energy efficiency improvement, a stronger network and new renewable power generation are all the measures we are talking about, measures that most of us are in favour of, and measures that we need to take to prevent this situation from becoming an unfortunate reoccurrence. But that it also seems to be a cross-political desire to go at system level and talk about managing the power sector, I think it's very happy, and it's a new and good ideological signal from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2967	First of all, I would like to thank you for an interesting contribution to the debate, although I may have to be a bit of a hitchhiker in relation to the representative Serigstad Valen's last speech and was glad that the Right would have been a supporter of a greater degree of political governance in the energy markets. I do not know if it is that we want the price element to also be part of the criterion base for starting up these mobile gas power plants in connection with the situation in winter, which means that the representative Serigstad Valen believes that the Right has changed its mind about how much public governance we are going to have in here. The fact that the Right wants to have a price as part of the criterion base for start-up, that we actually wanted a start-up, was just to make it clear that we are doing what we can in the short term to improve the situation of electricity customers – individuals and businesses – in Central Norway. It is important to make visible that the authorities are doing absolutely what they can to ease the pressure that has been priced. Then I also think that the representative Stroem will very much glorify the situation after 2005. It is possible that it is the representative's job to do so, but unfortunately I cannot let myself impress either on the appropriations made, or on the processing capacity of the NVE that has increased, when we know the situation that is that things are going on for a long time both on the website and on the production side, and that we have not been given much new energy that has been adopted by the red-green ones, which were not there yet served by the Bondevik II administration, and which has been realized during this period. The representative Lødemel addressed the question of predictability of the small-scale power set-up. Taking advantage of the energy potential of individual landowners and farmers around the country to strengthen farming is one of the best district policies we can get, and it is also a good energy policy. Once again, I hope that in the future we will see a completely different stability around framework conditions, a completely different predictability, which means that the players want to invest, want to bet and want to contribute to the energy nation of Norway. But again, thanks for the interesting input into an important debate. So I hope that the future will also show a completely different action and completely different results of the work of the Government on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2980	Some comments on the issues raised in the debate. The representative Solvik-Olsen had two parts in his post. One part was positions formulated as questions about topics we've discussed in this room relatively many times before, and the representative is well familiar with my answers, so I don't think I'm going to take them now. But the questions that were raised that have not been raised before go first on the line to Bergen and the decision time on it. I am concerned that we will get a quick decision on it as quickly as possible. I share the concern and impatience of the representative Solvik-Olsen in relation to the situation in Bergen, and I also mentioned that in my first post. It requires a solution. And then it has to be balanced against a sound process and the proper handling of the objections that have come up with proposed solutions. But within that framework, I will guarantee the representative that I will spend as little time as possible on this matter, and that we will have a decision on it as soon as possible – but as I said, with care of the necessary need to assess objections and in-flight recordings. So also the representative Solvik-Olsen says that the process around the dispensation request from Statnett regarding the backup power plants in central Norway is an example of a far too long process in the government. There I just have to say that I disagree entirely. I think the other objections raised by the representative of Solvik-Olsen are put in a slightly special light when the same rhetoric is used on a matter where there was a derogation request from Statnett during the winter holidays. It has been treated in the NVE first, sent out to the hearing – both from my ministry and from the Ministry of Environmental Protection – and the consultation deadline expired a few days ago. It is a minimum of a responsible procedure. So if the representative of Solvik-Olsen thinks that this is an example of an overly long process, I think we're simply in disagreement about what's going on in order to have serious and good processes on important and big questions. With regard to Solvik-Olsen's questions about the NVE's work and the wish that it not be put in a drawer, I can, however, reassure the representative. It shall not be placed in a drawer. I also want the Stortinget to be involved in a discussion around it, and that we should have the opportunity to discuss and sum up together in the winter of 2010, and could also help to make the winter 2011 better than the previous one. The representative Lødemel was occupied by landowners. So am I – and now I see that the time is up. So then we get to take that debate, and some more, at the next crossroads, which I'm reasonably sure will also come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e2992	That is when the debate is on case No. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3008	The starting point for the undersigned, and I suppose most people in the debate, is that one should use our energy resources as rationally and efficiently as possible. It makes sense as a society, and it makes sense for the individual – given that it is done in the right way. For example, sometimes a few impressions that one in the energy debate, in terms of energy efficiency improvement, is going to use a crown to save ten ears. But done correctly in many ways it is a gold mine to cut our energy use, for one can maintain production in industry, one can maintain business, in the public sector, one can have comfort and prosperity in the home, even if a user uses less energy — if one uses it smarter. It is a great potential for energy efficiency improvement in our country. About 40 pst. of our stationary energy use is in construction, corresponding to approx. 80 TWh. And there are studies recently that show that the potential for energy efficiency improvement is up to 12 TWh. However, Norway does not have its own energy efficiency improvement targets, although we have some instruments through Enova. I'll come back to that. In order to improve energy efficiency, there can be a quiet requirement for new construction. It is a comprehensive, or long-haul process if you want to get to the goal, by replacing the building mass only by approx. 1 pst. This year. But it's not wrong to be long-term for that reason. But one can also think of stimulation by suffocation. The Progress Party has repeatedly raised tax and tax incentives, which give immediate benefits to people who, when they clean up their house, also isolate after-sole or find systems that use energy better. This is also in line with what President Obama did in the United States in January 2009. I mention it, because part of the red-green side of this hall is very inspired by everything he does. Alternatively, schemes such as white certificates or the like may be solved. This debate should not be a review of the various measures, but more a discussion that targets for energy efficiency improvement often conflict with individual energy conversion objectives. What is important on the part of the Progress Party is that we have consumer interest in the centre here – not just the desire of individual industries to increase their market share. Because that's how it can work for some people when one sees what technology requirements come from the Government in the form of regulations. We believe from the Progress Party that a few to the best possible energy use must allow a variety of solutions, depending on the size of the dwelling, where it is, how old it is, what use it has. Enova has a number of support programmes, but in terms of energy efficiency improvement, only projects where one initially has a consumption of more than 500000 kWh, which is brought in by Enova, and it is the very few households that have. The only exception is the power consumption management system, which can be supported by almost everyone. But the rest of Enova's measures against normal households are based on measures that do not deal with electricity. And if you're going to isolate your dwelling, there's nothing to get through these arrangements. That, I think, means that one really gets less use of the resources of society that Enova has, because the use of tools is getting narrower than it could be in relation to people's needs. I would also mention that the aid granted per. kWh for energy saving is much lower than the aid granted by the same authorities to trigger a new power generation. It is also a paradox, but it is not what this debate should be about either. There are some paradoxes in this debate about energy saving versus energy conversion, where it seems that energy conversion targets to satisfy some industries are more important than the need for overall energy saving. There's someone coming, for example. when you start talking about district heating versus passive housing. In the climate agreement, all the parties that were involved – who were allowed to participate in it – stressed that passive houses are the future. At the same time, we know that in a very large number of municipalities, there is a huge commitment to district heating, because one sees it as being a political national goal. And the conflict comes when one in areas where one wants to build passive houses, is required to install district heating. It's the very few builders who think there's any sense in it, and then they choose one. And usually it turns out that they choose the passive house standard, because district heating is something they need, passive house is something they can have. That debate is often marked by the fact that local politicians say, but we must have district heating measures, because that is what national politicians say, while national politicians, and then the government, as I refer to here, says, but it is not a requirement, it is a call. But the call is perceived as so strong that it takes priority. It is rarely appropriate to retrofit the waterborne heat in existing dwellings. This means that the extent of district heating can be quite limited in some places where you want to impose it. One says that district heating has a utility because one often uses heat that would otherwise go to play. And right there, I fully agree that district heating has an effect. But we see in some areas that it's not necessarily just waste incineration that fills up the district heating plants, there's probably so much combustion of bioresources, and not least the combustion of fossil resources. So right there, I'm going to challenge the Council of States to present a CO2 account for Norwegian district heating production, so that one actually sees that this CO2 is as good as it wants to replace. Those numbers have been hard to get, unfortunately. As far as the energy labelling system is concerned, it is a basically good and sensible scheme to stimulate the efficient use of energy, and we thought it would be independent of which sources of heat a user uses. One shall make consumers aware at the moment of purchase of the kind of energy consumption the building they want to buy has. But here there is also a conflict between different energy sources, where electricity came out well, while bioheat came out relatively poorly, and the scheme was then stopped. Lookups in Today's Business give some explanations as to why, and I refer to the notice on 15 December 2009. With the poor output of bioenergy producers, there was a lot of protest, and one had to find a system that makes bio-heating come out better in this account. Heat pumps come out best, pellets come out poorly, even with the electric panel furnace coming out better than pellets. Based on an energy efficiency problem, I see no problem in it. But when the goal is energy conversion, of course, it becomes very problematic. Then you have to be open and honest about what the energy label scheme really is about. It's also a little bit of the attention you're trying to travel in this debate. I do not feel that the EU's intention was to push electricity out, but to increase efficiency in the use of energy in general. The last point I'm going to get into is the Technical Regulation for the Law on Planning and Building, which is now on a new round in the consultation system and the Government wants to tighten up. I fully agree here, too, that one should have a rational approach to the use of energy in buildings. But the new requirements with which one is now out there do not seem to be at all caring for the interests of the builders or consumers, but only focus on one's own desire to prevent the use of electricity in buildings. It appears almost as a separate goal, despite the fact that the NVE says that the current from the wind and water is very environmentally friendly, despite the fact that one in all contexts when discussing electric cars, talks about a user's clean power. However, precisely when discussing technical regulations, it is estimated that CO2 emissions from the flow in Norway are 350 g/kWh. So all of a sudden, a CO2 emission element appears in Norwegian power when you use something Government doesn't want you to do. But when you use it in any of the governments, it's zero. A selective approach to the use of facts is now important. Today, technical regulations state that 40 pst. of energy needs should be renewable – i.e. beyond electricity – but there is an exceptional rule that says that you will be exempted from this requirement if you can demonstrate that it is more rational economically to use electricity. The new technical regulations tighten this up by saying that building over 500 m2 should have 60 or 80 pst. renewable energy use, and you also remove the rule of exception. So you can't count on electricity being more profitable – you can do it, but it won't mean anything. And then you start imposing regulations and regulations that make it very little rational in relation to the use of the best tools for builders. This is especially the point of appeal when, through regulations, you change the entire energy supply and no longer focus on the economic rationality of the builder, but just say that political we do not want to use electricity in new buildings, and that is why we change the regulation, despite the fact that § 10-3 – that is, the point before – suggests that the energy demand in new buildings should be reduced. So at the same time as you're going to reduce, you're going to put in expensive technical solutions like you didn't reduce energy consumption. There's a conflict between energy efficiency and energy conversion that makes society not using its resources rationally, and I hope that the Council of State will sort out a few points.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3057	Two important elements of energy conversion are: reducing energy use to increase the use of waterborne heat based on renewable energy sources, waste heat and heat pumps; Energy conversion thus includes measures both for more efficient energy use and for environmentally friendly heat solutions. When the concept of energy conversion was introduced, it was justified in terms of environmental and security of supply in energy supply. These are also important considerations in energy policy. This winter we have had these challenges clearly demonstrated, and that has also been reflected in the issues that we have debated today. Less dependence on electricity for heating provides safer private finances in households and more stable business frameworks. It is also an advantage for the power system. I believe it is important to take the environmental challenges in the energy sector seriously. It is important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is also important to limit the use of electricity, so that we trigger less need for power generation and power lines, and can use electricity for purposes other than heating, where it replaces, for example. fossil energy use. The government is committed to improving the energy efficiency of the building stock. Building regulations from 2007 significantly increased energy requirements and the Government will consider introducing passive house requirements by 2020. Enova processes the market to enable contractors to deliver construction with ever more stringent energy requirements. I believe this work is important. The answer to the question from the representative Solvik-Olsen is therefore: Yes, we are going to bring down the energy use in our building. That's the overall goal. And point two: the remaining heat demand shall be covered by environmentally friendly heat solutions. The government is committed to increasing the use of waterborne heat based on renewable energy, waste heat and heat pumps in buildings. So far, this investment has contributed to a great deal of activity in the district heating industry. However, the development of district heating is not necessarily a comprehensive solution. Local heating centres are a good alternative in many places. Also for single dwellings there are good stand-alone heat solutions based on energy sources other than electricity and oil. I believe that the interpellant believes that there is a contrast between investing in energy efficiency improvement and exploiting environmentally friendly heat resources. I know there's a debate going on around this, but I think the debate going on in this area needs to be nuanced. About 75 TWh of energy is used in our buildings each year. It's a long-term job to bring down the consumption. Major measures need to be implemented primarily in the context of main rehabilitation and new construction, otherwise costs become unreasonable. In 2030, about half of the building mass may still be existing buildings that have not undergone a main rehabilitation. We don't have time to wait for all of these buildings to be renovated. According to the Low Energy Commission, it is estimated that 0.6 pst. the housing stock is refurbished each year. It corresponds to an average lifetime of 167 years for dwellings in Norway. Corresponding figures for professional buildings are a rehabilitation rate of 1,2 pst. and an average lifetime of 83 years. The energy demand in these buildings will therefore remain at a relatively high level, mainly using electricity and some oil. The possibilities for converting to other energy solutions are significant. We have heat resources that can be used locally, with low environmental costs. I think we should use these resources to heat up our buildings. In passive housing, the need for energy input is minimal, writing the interpellant in its interpellation. Enova has supported the construction of over 40 low energy houses and passive houses, and we expect to gain a lot of useful experience from these projects. We see good examples of souls in passive houses that all or part of the heat demand is covered by energy carriers other than electricity and oil. Renewable solutions are used and, in particular, hot water needs are met since the need for hot tap water will be the same as in other buildings. Calculations show that the need for hot tap water in a large single dwelling with passive house standard accounts for about two thirds of the heating demand. In an exclusive dwelling after today's energy requirements, hot tap water stands for a little above a third party that the heating demand. Furthermore, passive house is dense house, with energy-efficient windows. It allows for the use of simplified, and more reasonable, water-borne heating systems adapted to the low heat demand. We see a development in this area that is exciting. We also need to remember that many of the passive houses are large professional buildings and multi-dwelling houses, where the overall need for heat will be significant, and it could mean something for profitability and for the climate to use water-borne solutions. In future energy-efficient buildings too, there will be a need for heat. I don't imagine that it should only be covered with electricity. Environmentally friendly heat resources will play an important role. It's about security of supply. It's about the environment. We will contribute to a good solution in this area by supporting the development of new solutions such as: the modelling projects. The most important job we're facing is to reduce the need for energy in our building. It's a long-term project. At the same time, we must ensure that the heat demand that the building stock will have for a long time comes from environmentally friendly heat solutions. That's this approach I want to base my further work on in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3096	There is little that separates us from the desire for energy efficiency improvement, and I have a lot of understanding about an energy conversion. I am going for the greatest possible flexibility in energy supply. What, after all, comes down as a distinction between the Council of State and me, is based on the regulatory requirements here and the flexibility to allow to users. There, I obviously emphasise a greater degree of cost-effective, rational solutions, while the Council of State appears – but he would have to correct me – as one who believes that the goal of energy conversion should be the most important. The Council of State says that the energy needs are going down. Yes, Section 10-3 of the new TEK facilitates this, and I fully agree. He says that the residual requirement should be met by environmentally friendly heat solutions, and I actually agree with that. But in my world electricity is always considered environmentally friendly in the Norwegian debate because it comes from hydropower. The fact that electricity is suddenly defined when you talk about the new TEK, that is, the technical rule, becomes strange to me, because the choice of heat solutions has to be in line with costs. One may not fully exempt the costs. Although the Council of State wants different from electricity as a starting point, the challenges of what is happening to the new technical regulation are that it removes the possibility of using electricity where it is obviously most rational for cost reasons or because of infrastructure or what it should be. Think if the Council of State could give a guarantee that if a builder, owner of a dwelling, or whoever it should be, can show that in his project it is the most rational, when he has now spent as much money as he can on saving energy, that the remaining heat demand is covered by various forms of electricity-based solutions, he will be allowed to do so. He should not spend money on either near- or district heating solutions that are far more expensive. For what you see is that although district heating based on waste is a sensible resource use rather than letting the heat go up in the pipe, it is a costly method if you are to build a large-scale infrastructure where you also have to rely on fossil energy to meet the total need. So the government will put an exception rule into technical regulations, so that electricity can be used where it is rational when one can prove it – not just mean it, but prove it – maybe wait until the main revision of technical regulations takes place in 2012. One can also include the elements of the Climate Action in that assessment. Because when you talk about CO2 emissions from the use of energy, you also have to look at where it is most rational to do this overall, and that is what climate change is supposed to answer. It's still a year ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3108	As the representative of Solvik-Olsen is well aware, the new proposal for the TEK is at the hearing. It is then sent to a hearing from a department other than the one I am in charge of. So to go into a discussion about the Government's conclusion on the draft consultation that exists, I think actually the representative Solvik-Olsen has some understanding that I'm not going to do now. I think in general that some of the challenge in this kind of work is to find a balance that meets the need to find the good single solutions in some concrete houses, because there must be a framework that is good enough. In terms of water meters and heat, we see it very well, because you can't build an infrastructure for just a few houses. There has to be a plan and a project that includes many houses, which makes the cost low enough per. connected device. So I don't think we're going to get there that I think the representative of Solvik-Olsen is, that here we're not going to put any leads on the government side. If you want to use tiles and waste with more to do than to fire the crows or let it rot in the woods, we need national frameworks, and we need a plan to use it for heat. So we're going to spend some time discussing the content of the new TEK and what it's going to be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3115	The President will encourage the speakers of the Stockholm Chair to say technical regulations, not the TEK. It's going to be a tribal language that most people don't follow us in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3118	Then I can start by calming down that I have not intended to talk about the TEK at all. The interpellant is raising an important and timely debate. In public vocabulary, there has been a lot of debate and many views relating to the construction of new energy as a single element of energy conversion. But there is too little discussion about what works best of all, namely energy efficiency improvement. I also believe that the opposition itself has been an important contributor to the disproportionate distribution in the public debate of the relationship between energy saving and energy production. Comparing opposition initiatives related to energy efficiency improvement and proposals for the production of new energy, I dare to say that the same imbalance will prevail here as elsewhere in the debate on society. A kilowatt-hour save isn't just as much worth as a kilowatt-hour produced. In my opinion, it is worth more, because it does not require new technical installations and the interventions that always follow. When our government has spent so many times as much money on Enova as the previous government, it is not unilaterally allocated to building new energy. Enova's task is to manage this money, both for building new energy and energy efficiency. In fact, if you take cost-effectiveness into account, you get the most energy back per. the cost of energy efficiency measures aimed at industry. According to figures from Enova itself, a krone used up against industry gives over three times as much energy back in support of wind power. From this point of view, it is very easy to argue that you should not spend money on wind power at all, but we have chosen to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. Why have we chosen this? We in the Workers' Party are committed to managing the knowledge that lies on the energy side in Norway, in a future perspective. Norway has a great deal of knowledge and expertise on the energy side, which it would be wrong not to pass on to renewable forms of energy. If we in Norway continue to have ambitions to be an energy storm power in the future, we must be willing to invest in the energy that the whole world will demand. The future renewable energy train is about technology development and industrial development — future value creation and thousands of jobs in an industry where we here in Norway have all the prerequisites for success. Therefore, it would be a failure sin not to be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. This means, for example: the possibility of developing district heating at the same time as the revision of the building regulations. But you have to know what you're doing, have an awareness of what you're doing, so that you don't beat the other one in half. Then it's natural for me to refer to Oslo. In the municipality of Oslo there has been a debate on connection requirements for district heating, but has been chosen to exempt passive houses. It would be quite unreasonable not to link a huge mass of buildings ready for connection, large settlements and municipal buildings to district heating, even though the development of new buildings is moving towards less energy-intensive constructions. We've done a lot of work on energy efficiency improvement. The potential for energy efficiency in industry is particularly high. From 2006 to 2008, Enova has provided grants for some 100 industrial projects and expects to save more than two terrawatt hours per year. years through that work. It's as much as the annual production in Norway's largest hydropower plant, which is Rana in Northern Ireland. Compared to the last period of government, it's twice as much. Support for energy efficiency improvement and heat conversion in Norway has doubled. It will make society more climate-friendly and competitive, and it will improve security of supply. More than 8 000 small and large measures have been supported by the State through Enova in the last four years. So we'll find the very best projects in the industry. One of them is Elkem Thamshavn at Orkanger. Enova committed 90 million in 2009. SEK in support of an energy recovery project there, which will save energy consumption equivalent to about 9 000 households. Finnfjord melting plant was mentioned by the representative Stroem in the previous interpellation debate and is also a great example of this. There is much that has been done, but also much that remains. From the Labour Party, I can assure you that we are giving very high priority to the work on energy efficiency improvement. However, it must be emphasised that this work will go hand in hand with the energy conversion work and the job in order to increase the production and development of more renewable energy. We in the Workers' Party are able to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time, and that's often an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3144	The most environmentally friendly energy is known as the one that is not used. Therefore, it is disappointing that Norway is the only country in Europe that lacks clear targets for energy efficiency improvement. A study from SINTEF shows that it is possible to save 12 TWh in construction by 2020. It corresponds to the annual energy consumption of 600 000 dwellings. A stronger effort on an island could create work for 10,000 people in the construction industry. As the Right sees it, there are three things the Government should do to trigger the energy efficiency potential. First of all, the state must go ahead. Requirements should be introduced for new public buildings to have the character A or B of the energy labelling scheme. Thus, it will be impossible to do what the Government is now doing, namely to build a government building with a mediocre energy standard. Secondly, the Government should strengthen the requirements for the supply of energy in technical regulations for all new buildings and major renovations. Thirdly, the Government should introduce a tax-deductible scheme for an investment in private homes. Private households account for 68 pst. of energy consumption in the building mass of Norway. Private individuals need simple but effective incentives to invest in an increase in owner-occupiers’ housing. Interpellant asks if the Government's investment in energy conversion is at the expense of the investment in energy efficiency improvement. That's a good question. It's essential that we use energy more efficiently, no matter what source it comes from. Energy conversion is positive where it replaces polluting sources of heating with environmentally friendly alternatives. On the other hand, it is not an objective – and directly contrary to the energy labelling system adopted by the Stortinget – to favour bioenergy rather than electricity on a general basis, as the Council of State called for in today's industry before Christmas. The main purpose of the energy labelling scheme is to indicate the energy efficiency of the building, irrespective of the source used for heating. If the intention of the Council of State with the postponement of the energy label scheme is to change the scheme so that bioenergy becomes better, the scheme will help less to inform and more to confuse buyers and sellers of buildings and dwellings. The entire energy labelling system risks becoming completely worthless. As if that were not enough, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has sent out proposals for consultation on new energy supply requirements in technical regulations, as the interpellant also had, with a minimum of 80 pst. of the net heat demand of buildings 500 square metres or greater shall be covered by energy supply other than direct electricity or fossil fuels at the end-user. For buildings less than 500 square metres, a minimum of 40 pst. net heat needs are met by energy supplies other than direct electricity or fossil fuels. In a country about 100 pst. of the electricity supply is covered by renewable hydropower, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs chooses to equate electricity with fossil fuels. This is proposed without any costs or consequences being investigated. A change in technical regulation that could significantly increase costs for Norwegian consumers is presented almost on the basis of pure vision, based on government policies. The proposal for a change to technical regulations does not strengthen the requirement for energy efficiency and the need for delivered energy for construction. The audit is a strategy for increasing energy conversion, away from fossil fuels and direct electricity – despite the fact that electric heating systems consistently lead to lower energy consumption and higher efficiency than alternative heating systems. The size target of reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions could be achieved by strengthening energy requirements based on the need for energy delivered by the building. The regulation should be technology neutral. Changes in energy use requirements in buildings must be evidence-based — not based on what is at any time most politically popular in the Government. The interpellant also raises an important issue of district heating. The Community funds spend billions subsidising district heating pipes in Norwegian cities. In many places this will be a sensible policy. Waste is a resource if we use it correctly. However, if we use the community's resources to bring district heating to passive-household-standard areas, it is likely to be wasted. The government and Enova must therefore have a conscious strategy related to the size of district heating capacity in Norway today and the capacity we will need in the future, while ensuring that district heating does not override better alternatives where they exist. At the same time, the Government must ensure that the district heating industry has framework conditions to meet industrial waste requirements. Eight out of ten waste contracts now go to Sweden, which means that Norwegian district heating plants have to fire with oil rather than waste. It's not very environmentally friendly, as we know. The government should remove the special combustion charge as soon as possible and increase the availability of waste that ends in landfills by doubling the landfill charge. The proposals are free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3178	The theme of the previous interpellation gives an example of why it's so important to think smart when we decide on different types of heating of barley. We use a lot of electricity in Norway in relation to other countries — even more than what can be reasonably explained by our cold climate. I think most of us agree. And that's really not so strange, because for decades we had enough power to absolutely everything – it cost very little money and generally gave little cause for concern in Norway. The fact that our hydropower is climate friendly has made us able to warm up houses and let the light stand on in difficult constructions around the clock without having a very bad conscience. But the world's emerging climate and energy challenges put our Norwegian relationship to electricity in perspective. In most places, electricity will not be a surplus product as in Norway. Access to clean power, which has been one of the major advantages of industry in this country, depends on the fact that electricity is not wasted in other sectors. I noticed with interest the output from Stein Lier-Hansen in the Norwegian industry for a while back. He wants to introduce regulations on the use of power in cabins. It could be exciting to hear how this fits with the ideology of interpellantan. But the main message in the play is what we should remind ourselves about now: Power is a high-quality source of energy. It can best be used for advanced devices and production; it can be used in industry; it can be used elsewhere where the access to clean power is more scarce. It is not best suited as a main heating in Norwegian construction, when we have the opportunity to use waste and bioheat. It does the countries around us to a far greater extent than we do. This is not an expression of a conflict between electricity and other energy sources, which one might get the impression at the interpellant, but it is an expression of having a better interaction than today. Electricity consumption in Norway is about four and a half times higher per year. resident than in Germany. There is no reason to pretend that this has nothing to do with our generally high energy consumption in Norway, with which we can do a lot. That is why I share therepresentative Astrup’s desire for more energysaving measures and more money for an additional measure. But I think that so-called white certificates, which require the funding of anincreased response by their customers, are a better alternative than tax havens, which the Right tends to have as a solution to many different policy issues. It's interesting to hear Solvik-Olsen's claims that the red-green policies in this field are guided by a desire to soften some industries instead of doing what's best for society and the environment. Usually, the accusation from the Progress Party is that we do not take into account any industries when deciding on something. The representative of Solvik-Olsen is himself the representative who perhaps uses most of the opportunities to run the oil and gas industry, rather than to discuss what is best for society, the climate and the environment. The representative's doubts about how clever it is to burn waste as a substitute for heating with electricity make me wonder why the Progress Party on other occasions and in other debates is calling for the removal of the combustion tax. Should we have listened to the representative Solvik-Olsen in the debate today – more than in other versions of the representative Solvik-Olsen – it could almost be believed that the incineration of waste is not so good. This suggests a slightly consistent opposition policy that creates confusion around what I think we all agree on here in the Chamber, namely the desire for a more sensible use of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3191	I'll start by quoting the environmental agents: "I'm not angry, I'm just very, very disappointed." It goes at the level of detail in the previous speaker's articles. Yes, I talked about waste, and I said that the incineration of waste and the use of energy resources makes sense. When I put question marks, it's because one, for example. knows that in some places the peak load is fossil energy. Then you get a completely different CO2 account. That was what was my criticism, and not waste incineration overall, but I understand that SV also makes a point in this case of trying to turn the Right and Advance Party policy, because they themselves are responsible for a policy that does not work very well, in view of the waste incineration tax. It is also wrong what the representative Serigstad Valen says about energy. Norway does not use more energy per year. household other than that of many other countries, when a temperature correction. Actually, we're actually using less. Yes, we use more electricity, but other countries use the more gas, or the more bioenergy – in Scandinavia in terms of district heating. That's the total energy consumption we have to discuss here. Some hang themselves in the stream as if it were a trap – one understands why the government thinks they do when one hears the argument of the representative Serigstad Valen. However, one must at the same time look at this in relation to the Norwegian objectives of expanding a lot of new electricity in Norway. Because that's the point of green certificates – building out a lot more power. And what are we going to do with it, if we're not going to use it, or export it? There is no reason to believe that in the short term a person will have so much development capacity abroad that you will not be able to use the flow in Norway. And then you have to think, how can you use it in the most rational way possible? Then it's not an argument that electricity should replace bioenergy. My point in this debate is that bioenergy should not replace electricity at all costs either. We have to look at the individual building, the individual project – what is most rational? I also do not argue that one can assume that when everything else is equal, one should use bioenergy rather than electricity. But if it is more rational in a building and cost perspective to use electricity because one has a reduced energy demand so significantly that the infrastructure costs of introducing alternative heat sources become very large, they should release it and rather be able to install one or two panel furnaces, or insert the air-to-air heat pumps needed. That's what has to be the point on our side, that we can have the best possible total resource use, because in my world it's still not that it makes sense to spend $2 on energy saving measures to save a kilowatt hour that costs you 20 or 30 cents – in a normal situation, not in a Middle Norway situation. The heat pumps also cost money to produce, and that must be taken into account. Therefore, my last challenge to the Government will be: Will the State Council, which has control of the energy labelling scheme, present it as it was in December, or will it base the wish of the bio industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3210	On the last question, I can assure the representative of Solvik-Olsen that I am not going to base any industry's views on the energy labelling system. There is a need to spend some more time on getting a scheme that is overall good enough, but there must be a solution that in content is just so good and so clear that the label gets a value. The representative of Solvik-Olsen says it's about total resource use, even the debate on electricity/bio and what the debate has gradually gone into. That formulation, that is total resource use, I'm completely behind my back. I think that is really what this debate is about. This does not mean that, in order to quote, bioenergy ‘will replace electricity at any cost’, as the representative said, but it means that where appropriate, it is an objective to be able to use waste — resources that are otherwise not used — to heat buildings in order to release electricity for other heating or for other energy uses in practice. So I think it's about the total use of resources. Within it there will be many nuances, many individual cases, but as the overall I believe that ‘total resource use’ can well be a summary of this debate, and actually be a description of what the matter is ultimately about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3217	So the debate is on case No. 11 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3231	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3247	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3263	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3279	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3295	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3313	I would like to transform the proposal of the Progress Party into a transmission proposal and not deal with it in reality today. We do so according to the good signals we received, and the opinions and good intentions expressed by the Council of State when this matter was dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3318	The representative then explained that the proposal had been converted into a transmission proposal. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3339	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3347	The size goes to voting. Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on case No. 1 has already been adopted for consideration in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3410	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3420	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3427	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the overall level of car and car charges in the revised 2010 national budget with a view to reducing them.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3451	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised 2010 national budget, to provide the Storting with a review of fuel charging principles for predictability for manufacturers and consumers of climate-neutral or emission reduction fuels.’;» The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3484	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposal No. 3, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with its own case setting the health and activity challenge in an overall perspective, and to develop a regulatory framework that provides equal treatment for all employees and for both sexes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3511	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose, in the context of the revised 2010 national budget, to exempt employers’ training cards from employer’s fees and personal taxation with effect from 1 July 2010 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3526	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Prom, right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3566	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for housing aid to be used to remedy the situation of those who are hardest hit by the sharp increase in electricity prices’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3590	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the vote and proposal No 2 by the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size empowers the government to reduce VAT on electricity and electricity taxes in periods of exceptional high electricity prices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3614	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide Iceland with clear assurances as soon as possible that Norwegian assistance to Iceland in the form of loan payments will take place regardless of what might happen to the IceSave agreement.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3636	In Case No: 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3643	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3650	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3657	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3664	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3672	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3679	During the debate Ib Thomsen has converted the proposal for a transmission proposal and the proposal is amended as follows: «It is recommended that the government draw up proposals for the necessary legislative amendment providing better protection for children who are victims of parental abuse.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3691	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Solveig Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party, presented at the meeting of the European Parliament on 9 March 2010: ‘The government is asked to put forward concrete measures against co-ordination.’ The right and left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-23.ana.ud774e3736	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
