ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e115	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e124	In this case, representatives of the Progress Party have put forward proposals for guidelines to be drawn up by the Government on the use of the State Councils in the field of travel and meetings of party politics. The case was brought before the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud, which, on 27 April 2010, replied to the Committee: ‘That is why, in my opinion, there is nothing to prevent the government from following the Council of State on travel involving political events. It must be for the individual Council of State to exercise discretion as to the tasks for which the Council of State requires assistance, but the role of the Office must also be known here. I do not see the need to draw up specific guidelines on the use of government agencies in travel and meetings with party politics." The Committee also refers to answers from Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg to Per-Christian Foss to questions, Document No. 15:156 for 2009–2010, on the same issue. Here the Prime Minister answers: ‘It will vary the extent to which the Councils of State need assistance from the Office in connection with their travels to and presence at electoral campaign events. Departments need to be in constant contact with the Council of State when travelling. Similarly, the need for assistance for press management could depend on the ongoing media issues relating to the responsibilities of the Council of State. It will therefore be up to each State Council to make a judgement as to what assistance it needs in such situations. On the one hand, the Council of State must carry out its duties as head of department also in the run-up to elections, but on the other hand, the Council of State must ensure that it does not abuse the office in a party political context.» The majority of the Committee – the members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV – point out that the issue of different aspects of the use of the State Councils has been discussed in St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001, where it is very clear that the Agency is to assist the State Councils as Heads of State. It is outside the responsibility and task of the civil service to assist the Councils in their capacity as party politicians. This principle is laid down in Ethical guidelines for state services. It is positive that the government will clarify the role of the government when they are with the Council of State on travel. At the same time, there must be a great responsibility on the part of the government and the individual State Council to ensure that the distinction between the performance of duties and purely party-political events becomes clear. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that the Governments must be careful to bring the office, especially in an electoral campaign situation. We would point out in particular that there has been a huge increase in the number of communications consultants working for the departments. In June 2005, 99.9 communication advisers were employed in the departments. In June 2009 – i.e. under Stoltenberg II – this figure was increased to 134.2. This is an increase of 34 pst. In other words, there will soon be more communication consultants in the departments than there are magnification representatives. The opposition records these developments, pointing out that this increase entails an additional cost of 16 million. kr, while this emergence of communication advisors will increasingly require the individual Council of State to be clear on the role allocation. This means that, on average, there are now seven communication advisors in each department. So there's more in each department than that number, e.g. the Advance Party and the Right has separately on the Stortinget. This is a development that, of course, challenges the rise of the border between the administrations and the political leadership of the departments even more clearly. It is essential that there is transparency and transparency about who the state councils bring on different journeys and what the purpose of the journeys is, so that the opinion can reflect on whether the purpose of the travel activity is in line with the demands of the Prime Minister for the exercise of discretion. The conclusion is that all, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, are in favour of attaching the draft representative to the Minutes. But I want to stress that the developments we see, in particular with this communication advisory body, will make it even more difficult to draw the boundaries of what is party political activity, and what is official activity. Therefore, I hope that the guidelines specified by the Council of State Aasrud can be presented, perhaps as a taste of this today, so that we clearly hear that the government takes this problem seriously, and that it is a good judgement exercise that needs to be taken into account, while taking care that mixing roles does not go too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e152	There is no disagreement between the parties as to the relationship between government and government. The office shall be, and shall be, party-politically independent. The rapporteur has presented the private proposal in a good manner, and the Workers' Party shares his principle view of the relationship between civil servants and state councils in full. In the case of the Ministry's assistance to the State Councils, the starting point is clear: the Agency shall assist the State Councils as Heads of State. It is outside the responsibility and task of the civil service to assist the Councils in their capacity as party politicians. It is a long practice, and the principle is also laid down in Ethical guidelines for state services. It is important for all parties, the government, the opposition, and not least the civil service itself, that no one act in such a way as to raise doubts about the integrity of the civil service or of individuals, or so that the independent professionalism can be called into question. However, a Council of State is the head of its department even when travelling or participating in political events. In such situations, there may also be a need for assistance from the Office to tasks to be handled by the Council of State as Head of Department. It must therefore be for each State Council to exercise discretion in relation to the assistance it needs. The Labour Party believes that government councils of different political colours have shown good judgment in this area. The same applies to the administrative management of the different departments. We have difficulty finding examples of politicians and civil servants acting in a way that does not respect the distinction between management and policy. The guidelines requested by the Progress Party in its proposal are already in place. In addition, the issue of different aspects of the use of the public office by government councils has been widely discussed in St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001. In a written reply to Per-Kristian Foss’ representative last year, the Prime Minister explained how the guidelines are understood and practised, and in a letter to the Municipal and Administrative Committee of 27 April this year, the Council of State, Rigmor Aasrud, said that she would assess the need to further clarify the distinction between the tasks and policy tasks of the Office, now that the guidelines are being revised. On the part of the Workers' Party, it is unclear which problem the proposers are actually trying to solve, and what is the motivation for promoting such a proposal. Is it true that individuals have been misrepresented, or is it going to be political coining of media speculation? In this case, there are other and more unbureaucratic ways to address such issues than to promote private proposals for new policies and practices. We have noticed that the opposition wants to do this as a debate on how the departments are organized and what it costs. There is a debate that we would like to take. However, it does not belong here, but in the discussions on the State budget. The positive thing about today's debate is that we are reminded of the importance of the distinction between political decision-makers and central government. Although the entrance port is not very constructive this time, the Workers' Party wishes to welcome a substantive discussion on the relationship between politicians and civil servants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e175	The ministry of the departments is an important ingredient of Norwegian democracy, and it is essential that any government can have full confidence in the ministry. This is particularly important in Norway because we replace relatively few people in the departments with government changes. Since the Office is stable, irrespective of government change, the use of the Office by the Government must also be adapted to such a system. It is essential for any government to be able to deal with a party-political neutral office. After the 2009 election campaign, there was a discussion about the use of the electoral service by some government councils. It went so far that the professional organization of the academics felt that the use of the office by some government councils jeopardised the integrity of the office. Against this background, the Progress Party’s main concern was to examine the extent of the government’s use of the government in the electoral campaign. The result was interesting. Some state councils almost never took advantage of missions on trips, which also had party political content in the election campaign – others did so almost always. Although Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001 discussed these issues, the practice in the departments is so different that there is a need to clarify the role of political staff in the departments and in the other departments. For example, Councillor Erik Solheim had: with the office of Vestfold a few days before the 2009 election to have a climate play with the party’s first candidate in the county. The same council had the office of Trondheim on 12 September in order to hold an aid debate. In my opinion, this is clearly contrary to what is the starting point of this big message. Such use of the office obviously puts it in a difficult situation and can definitely compromise the integrity of the individual. Recently, former State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated that he believes the Department's information departments should act almost as a kind of propaganda office for the government council's policy. Such practice will, of course, make it complicated both for the government and for new government councils at a government change. Thus, in our view, such a view is contrary to the basis that one does not, in practice, replace any staff in the departments by government changes in addition to the political staff. Nor is it easy to live with a situation in which the integrity of the ministry is to be safeguarded solely by the individual Council of State, as laid down by the Prime Minister in a letter to the WCC. In our view, there is a need for clearer guidelines in this area. That is why the proposal by the Progress Party should be welcomed with applause and have unanimous support today, but I am very surprised that this will not happen. But there are still some points of light. Firstly, the whole committee agrees, and all parties agree, on the principle of the non-cooperation of government in the political function of party councils. Secondly, I am pleased that, in her letter to the Committee, the Council of State Aasrud says that she will consider clarifying the distinction between government administration and its party political role in the review of Ethical Guidelines for State Service. In practice, situations often arise where one of the Councils has to use good judgment in travel and meetings which are a combination of election campaigns and events involving the professional responsibility of the Council of State. But in general, it is little luck during an election campaign to use civil servants on trips where questions can be asked about the actual purpose of the trip. The joyous opening of the Council of State to look closely at this is at least a small recognition that it is important for all parties that it is not shaken by the integrity of the Office, and that in future election campaigns one should be more aware of this issue as a Council of State. Although the proposal of the Progress Party is not adopted today, at least I hope that this debate, which I believe has a constructive starting point, as opposed to the representative of the Workers' Party said, helps to raise awareness, in particular, of the state councils that have moved in the border countries for the acceptable use of the government in the election campaign. It is a long year to the next election campaign, and one should not overlook the fact that even after that election there is an enquiry from the Progress Party’s big crowd to get closer to the Councils’ travel programme and travel follow-up. I would like to take up with it the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e205	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e208	I didn't intend to speak in the debate, because I think that both the post to Greece and the post to Haugli were good when it came to describing what there is, in fact, a broad consensus in the committee. The principle here is very clear; it must be at the discretion of each state council how to use the office on the basis of the principles that lie there, which are very clear. Then I believe that the representative Anundsen provided some examples showing why the Progress Party is wrong in this matter. When e.g. State Councillor Erik Solheim goes to Vestfold to deliver a climate play – which is an area that is absolutely within his remit – Anundsen believes it is wrong. When the Council of State is to take part in an aid debate and is assisted by its official staff, Anundsen believes that there is a wrong use of the agency. I think both of these two examples are good examples of the fact that it is absolutely right that the Council of State has the opportunity to use the office. If, for example: Erik Solheim, who had attended an SV event to participate in a debate on child sharing principles, I would have asked if there had been a proper use of the agency, in such a setting. But there's something else. The examples given by Anundsen show that, in my opinion, the Progress Party is very wrong, and I am a little surprised at what is the starting point for considering the proposal as it exists. In her letter from the Council of State to the Committee, she also explains that this is an ongoing subject for discussion and will be examined in an appropriate manner. I see that the whole committee, except for the Progress Party, is joining. I am pleased that all of us, except the Advancement Party, are satisfied with what is being done by the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e221	I also agree with all of Greece's comments. I think it was a good introduction to the matter, and the principles here are clearly at the bottom. As I've said before, it's like we've grown up with different childhood ideals -- some of us had police chief Bastian and others had Aunt Sofie. In our democracy, I think it is essential that we have ‘openness’ and ‘trust’ as the main words, not ‘control’ and ‘regulatory’. The creation of guidelines in areas that are clearly about people's discretion there and then, for example. assessment, as difficult as a Council of State must, cannot be made in a good manner with a legislative framework. It can be done in a good way by openness and discussion, and so it was at the previous election campaign. It is clear that government councils that are bordering here also have their trust in the Norwegian people. That's the trust we rely on, and that's the trust you get when you do the boundaries. It's a much better "legislative" than making some kind of code that you can say is on one side or the other. In many areas of our democracy now, we believe that we should be able to rely on a regulatory framework in all such matters, while I believe that openness and debate are the best thing to strengthen democracy. Then it's the mechanisms we're going to put in place and don't legislate on how to enforce these things. I believe that is true in many fields, which have also been debated this week. It's about transparency about who we meet, it's about transparency about who it is that affects all the political actions we do. I believe that we must now move away from the legislation and over to the trust. But the most important thing here is openness, and it's easy to know who's in the event. And then it's also the role of the media to monitor whether we're doing our role as politicians, whether it's here or in the government, in a good way. Against this background – this was more of a explanation of vote – we will not support the proposals of the Progress Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e236	As I have pointed out in my letter to the Municipal and Management Committee of Stortingen on 27 April, the issue raised in the proposal for a representative has been widely discussed in St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001 on the relationship between the civil service, the political direction of departments and other social actors. There is no doubt about the conclusion of the Single European Act: assisting the Councils in their capacity as party politicians is outside the remit and tasks of the Agency. The Councils of State may also need the assistance of the Agency when they are travelling. The frequency and extent of travel by individual state councils will vary over time and between the different departments. It would be necessary for the government to be able to follow the Councils of State on journeys involving both the Council of State’s office and party political tasks. In any case, it is up to the individual Council of State to decide — and as has been said from this interlocutors before today — where the distinction goes between the government and the party political tasks. On the basis of this assessment, the Council of State must also decide on the tasks in which the Office may be involved, irrespective of whether or not the Council of State is travelling. The individual Council of State must be able to distinguish, at all times, between the functions of government and the political functions of the party and allocate tasks to its officials and officials within the part which he or she deems to be under the authority of the administration. The Office must also have a clear understanding of the nature of the distinction between the Council of State’s office and its party political role, and must refrain if it considers that this limit is being violated. As part of the follow-up to the Ethics Guidelines for State Services, the ministries are also committed to having clear and tidy roles, and to addressing issues such as: these dividing lines are part of the dilemma faced by the officials and officials of the departments. On this basis, I have seen no need to draw up specific guidelines on the use of government agencies in travel and meetings in party politics. But in my response to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I stated that I would consider clarifying that distinction somewhat more clearly during the revision of the Ethical Guidelines for State Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e254	As I mentioned in my post, I am pleased that the Council of State will make such an assessment during the revision of the Ethical Guidelines for State Service. But I would like to challenge the Council of State whether, prior to that assessment, she will also review the practice of the various departments, so that one can have a real basis of experience before considering changing the legislation. In this way, it will be seen whether there is consistency between the government's use of the office in an election campaign and the premises in St.meld. No 11 for 2000–2001 and in the treatment of that notification by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e262	I have no plans to make a major bureaucratic task in terms of defining which travels have been carried out by the various state councils with and without official duties. But in the work we're going to do on creating new ethical guidelines, all departments will of course be involved in the ordinary way, so that we can find out whether the opinion we have on the matter is going to be in line with what we build on our factual knowledge and the possible change that we're going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e267	There is obviously a broad consensus here on the Storting that there should be transparency around the travels of the Councils – that it should be possible to verify in retrospect the purpose of the journeys, who has participated, etc. But then, in the letter from the Council of State, it is clarified that the civil service has a duty of obedience, but that it ‘does not impose any obligation on employees of the central administration to carry out tasks outside the scope of the Council of State’. And then the council just said that the government has to say from when it goes too far, or when they feel that they are involved in something that they should not be involved in. How can the Storting and the public be made aware of when any protests are made by the Office? Is it a logging of it? Is it taken up directly, or is it going on in writing? Can the Storting have access to the protests then made by the Office, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e274	I am not aware that there is a log of that type of enquiry, but part of the ongoing political debate between the political leadership in the departments is about what matters it is proper to have with the ministry. The management of the Ministry is good at assisting us in making the right assessments. And as I said in my article, part of the training basis that many departments are doing is working on the boundaries that lie between what is the political mission that the Council of State is on, and what is the mission of government. So it is very often, especially in an election campaign, that some events are purely official, while others are election-oriented. In those cases, you will often be dependent on having a communication job that can follow you, because there are ongoing issues that are going on in the ministry, completely independent of what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e281	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3956]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e299	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e310	The decision deals with changes in a wide range of laws in this case. This concerns the law on disposal, the law on housing, the law on real estate, the law on financing activities, the tax law and the law on housing, so there is a lot of work ahead of us. The government's reason is that in recent years there have been a number of negative newspaper headlines about the so-called low-deposit housing organised just as housing laws. Low-deposit dwellings are characterised by the fact that the purchaser does not need very much equity to finance the purchase of dwellings. Dwellings are mainly financed through joint loans addressed by the Housing Act. In practice, low-deposit dwellings are often referred to as dwellings where the common debt is 80 pst. – and consequently the deposit part 20 pst. An advantage of low-deposit dwellings is that access to the housing market is facilitated for persons with limited equity. However, it is a big problem if the buyers do not understand the consequences of what they have purchased, and the buyers do not have the finances to pay their share of the common costs when everyday reporting. There are 345,000 housing camps in Norway today. Of these, low-deposit dwellings represent a disappearing small proportion. The present proposition suggests that housing laws with too low individual contributions from unit-holders in relation to the common debt that rests on the law of residence create a problem of soundness that should be tackled by legal measures. These interventions fall into three main categories. Firstly, it is proposed to introduce a legal provision that there is no right of residence to borrow more than 75 pst. from banks or other external lenders. Second, the introduction of legal and regulatory homes, which have the common aim of making basic knowledge of purchasers of housing apartments aware of what the real financial obligations will be in the coming years, with particular emphasis on making the real price visible at the time the purchasers decide to purchase. It is therefore intended that individuals should understand the scope of the obligations they assume as unit-holders, both the operating costs of the company and the capital costs. The third action point/group of actions are several legislative changes aimed at influencing and, hopefully, at reducing the risk, if other unit-holders are found to be in default of their obligations to pay common costs and the organisation of hedging arrangements. I think, before focusing on any weaknesses in housing, that we should also be aware that, in a slightly longer perspective, housing in Norway has contributed to housing travel. It has been significant in our cities, and it has had a major impact on the housing situation in Norway in the post-war period. We have to make sure that we do not expose the form of housing to regulations that make it less attractive, so that we affect people's ability to choose freely the form of residence they want. We have to bear in mind that too many people will not have the option of self-ownership, but they will simply be referred to a purely rental market. A joint technical committee supports the proposals aimed at providing each shareholder with a good overview and information to enable him to take informed decisions. The Committee also supports the reduction of the risk through hedging arrangements for other payment defaults. On one point, the Committee has shared and on the proposed ban on higher lending than 75 pst. Of course, we who are sceptical about that limitation are not against showing caution when borrowing, but the government is proposing a system where the legislators decide once and for all the maximum level of funding, and not – as in all other loan conditions – leave it up to the individual owner of the dwelling and the bank to agree on what to own and what to borrow. We believe that such a rule becomes too rigid, and that the decision has then been taken once and for all, without any specific knowledge of the risks and circumstances of the individual. We also believe that if you look at the extent of the problem, there have been ten bankruptcys in housing laws in ten years. We also know that we have excellent solution mechanisms for cases where there is a stoppage in housing law. Even then, residents are guaranteed far more rights than the equivalent for self-owners in a bankruptcy situation. We also need to be aware that in a bankruptcy, the deposit capital is primarily protected less than the common debt, which is usually taken up by bank loans. It also means that if the deposit debt is low, the bankruptcy situation for the shareholders would be equivalent to the message. If low-deposit apartments were no longer to be allowed, it would probably increase the soundness of each type of housing, but this soundness mainly benefits banks and not the shareholders. In my view, too much attention has been paid to this measure. One can also be led to believe that other and more important relationships do not play such a big role, for example. the amount of the debt, the level of interest and how interest rates can develop. There is also a question of whether this so-called deposit is in fact a safe deposit, or whether it needs to be borrowed, and, if so, under what conditions. In the event of a bankruptcy, if you have financed your deposit as your private consumption debt, it will follow the borrower whether or not he lives in the residence. It is these and much more important matters that really determine whether the shareholders are in charge of their expenses. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessment that at least a limit on the lending rate should not apply to subsequent borrowings. Something else would be completely impossible to practice, so we support that at least this constraint is reserved until the time of formation. Nor is there any desire to change the individual ability of the shareholder to make individual payments. Housing is the most important form of savings in Norway, and it should also be possible for residents of housing camps. An overall committee also considers that it is important to ensure that the purchaser of housing permits is provided with information on the total price of the dwelling. The Marketing Act is binding on any trader who lives by selling and distributing residential sales. An industry standard has been developed for the marketing of the dwelling. It's just these industry standards that are now being written into the different laws. This is in accordance with established rules when these price information requirements are included in the law on real estate, the law on disposal and the housing registration law. The Committee considers that the proposed amendments will help to inform purchasers of the shares when making those long-term decisions. Housing investment may be one of the most important decisions taken in the family. Similarly, the Ministry’s assessment is supported that the rules should focus on professional operators in consumer sales rather than on transfers between consumers, which are typical when sold between family members. Then you have experience that some companies and people have bought far more shares than they intend to live in, or can physically live in. That's what you're talking about as speculative sales. The Committee has also agreed that non-residents may not take over the right of residence. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that a proposal has been made which underlines the obligation of real estate agents to provide information. Real estate agents often rely on receiving this information from the manager or the housing team. We would like to make a proposal – it is in the suspension – that fees and charges for the transfer will not be paid unless real estate agents have received this information. We are also promoting formal proposals on this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e354	The representative Michael Tetzschner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e357	Housing schemes and housing laws were established to ensure good and safe housing for most people. During the postwar period, housing cooperation has opened up the housing market to many people, and housing law remains a widespread form of housing. About one in seven Norwegian dwellings are currently owned in this way. Many of the challenges that housing law enforcement has faced in recent years have been linked to so-called low-income housing laws, i.e. housing law with a high share of public debt and low deposits. Many of these are established for purposes other than ensuring safe housing for people, and in the media a number of such housing laws are referred to as indebtedness traps. Unfortunately, we have seen that some builders have taken advantage of the possibilities offered by the housing policy, in order to ensure high profits in purely speculative projects. Fortunately, there are a few Norwegian housing laws that belong to this category. However, the consequences for the individual resident have been considerable in some cases. The proposals we are considering today are promoted to clean up this situation. Government parties are committed to ensuring confidence in the housing model. We're going to go in for a rule that the maximum is going to be 75 pst. public debt in the formation of a housing law – a prohibition on low-income housing law. A new ban on the purchase of speculation and minimum requirements is also proposed for providers of insurance schemes. In addition, the purchaser is required to obtain information on the total price and future financial liabilities at the time of purchase. Bankruptcy in housing law is not a widespread phenomenon, but it has major consequences for all residents. The bankruptcies that have occurred have some common features. These are private builders without any connection to housing structures, the dwellings are sold with a high public debt and the bankruptcy is due to non-payment of overheads. The rapporteur has presented the matter well, and there is broad political agreement on most of the legislative changes. Therefore, I do not want to comment on each proposal, but focus on the most important and the most important and the most controversial. An important legislative change is the proposal for a maximum limit for common debt. Following the assessment of the Workers' Party, there are two important reasons why a maximum limit should be set: the consideration of the purchaser himself and the consideration of the other unit-holders in the right of residence. A maximum limit will also enable purchasers of residential property to be rated. It will help to reduce the risk that unit-holders will have to pay the common costs of their neighbours, as a maximum limit and credit rating may prevent persons who are unable to meet their loan obligations from entering into the right of residence. The Consumer Council, the Joint Financial Industry Organisation and NBBL are among the hearing bodies which have supported a maximum limit. There has been a somewhat different view of exactly where the border was going, and after an overall assessment, the government has landed at 75 p.m. Right will vote against the maximum limit and argues in principle against the need to set a limit. The party is on a collision course with both the financial industry and the consumer authorities, and fortunately they seem to be standing alone on this matter. Second, there may be objections that the maximum threshold will raise the threshold for entry of young people and others into the housing market. The working party is concerned that everyone should have the opportunity to own the owner-occupiers. However, there is no solution to the fact that people with low paying capacity are indebted to low-paying projects that they cannot serve. Start-up loans and other instruments through the Husbank are better tools to ensure that young people can establish themselves in owner-occupied housing. It has been found that some companies and individuals have agreed to purchase many housing properties, usually before the law of residence is formed. The motive is to make money on a favourable price development in the housing market. The housing model was developed to provide housing for people. Therefore, the Burechtslagslawa has as its starting point that a unit-holder in a housing law can hold only one share and that only natural persons can be unit-holders. The idea is that the person who buys the dwelling will also live there. If companies or individuals agree to purchase dwellings and resell them before the shares are transferred from the builder, there has been so far doubt as to whether these provisions are covered by the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on In order to continue the user principle, in order to reduce the risk of default of payments and to prevent the forced sale of residential property, the Government proposes to prohibit such speculative agreements. In the Labour Party, we are pleased that an overall committee has agreed to the principle that those who buy a share in a housing law must comply with the requirements to be able to live in the housing. Amendments to the laws are also proposed to ensure that purchasers of residential housing are provided with information on the total price of the dwelling, i.e.: both deposits and public debt. This requirement shall ensure that the purchaser is aware of the real price of the dwelling. When the dwelling is sold through real estate agents, the broker has a duty to inform the purchaser. The government proposes to amend the law so that it becomes clear that the proportion of public debt is to be included in the information that brokers obligations to provide. All the hearing bodies which have expressed their views on this proposal have been positive. Similarly, amendments to housing registration laws are proposed, which ensure that the purchaser buys information on the total price and share of the common debt if the housing law is under construction. In the case of the law on disposal, it is also proposed to legislate on the right to total price information. However, this rule is limited to sales by traders to consumers. There is reason to believe that residential sales between individuals are increasing in the coming years, among other things. because it is open to advertising for private individuals on the Internet. The size of such residential sales between individuals is not large, and there is reason to believe that most residential properties sold between private individuals are related. The majority ask the government to follow developments in the volume of sales of residential property between individuals and, where appropriate, to propose changes in the rules that ensure housing buyers the same information in the case of such sales. It is important that purchasers also receive information on what the common costs will be after the end of the unpaid period. Real estate agents are obliged to provide such information, but in practice it has proved to be a problem that the real estate agents do not have access to this information. The Government will therefore amend the regulation on annual accounts and annual report on housing law. The minority wants a legal provision for the same purpose. On the part of the government parties, it is important that the input of the hearing bodies be assessed. In particular, we are committed to evaluating a proposal from NBBL that the housing laws have to draw up a statement of what the payments will be in dollars after the non-deductible period, and how much the instalments will result in an increase in the common costs of each unit-holder, given that the amortisation plan is maintained. Laws of residence, which are not established for the benefit of residents, but for the purpose of enriching the founders of the purchasers of housing, have helped to put the form of housing in trouble. The residence has always been intended for the owner. We are currently dealing with a total of 24 minor legislative changes in seven different laws. The sum of these measures will put an end to speculation in the form of housing. It has been important, on the part of the Workers' Party, to protect the right of residence as a safe, good and democratic form of residence. We are pleased that a broad majority supports the legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e406	This case is well done for both by the case-speaker and by the representative Haugli of the Labour Party. So it doesn't have to be necessary to repeat what they've gone into and done well. In any case, I want to do something for the Progress Party in this matter. Of course, the starting point is that a dwelling is an important investment, and for most people it is the most important investment they make in life. The suit is an important part of the housing market, and the form of housing has also contributed to many entering the housing market in a straightforward and easy way. There is, of course, a balance between the fact that one is required to have a frame-stroke system in which the entrance ticket is affordable and that one must have at the same time a frame-stroke system that is so robust that it does not interfere in any way, which is trustworthy, and which can be trusted by all operators in the housing market. Both the case-speaker and the representative of Haugli have argued that there is a broad consensus in this matter. The Committee agrees on most things. It is important for a person to be able to legislate with good and sufficient information, so that one simply does not get ensnared in the housing market without a real awareness of the consequences, the common costs and the common debt of the law. There's also a joint committee that's behind it, and that's good. What has been discussed in the Committee, and a little different comments on – also a comment from the Right – are what goes on in the most common debt in the framework of the framework. Here it's proposed 75 pst. part of the public debt - one must not exceed 75 pst. common debt in relation to the costs incurred by the law of the port. The starting point here is that we don't believe such a rule will have any significant effect. We believe that in many ways this is a law of what is practice today. It would be difficult to finance a public debt that is more than 75 pst. And I also think it might be difficult to sell parts of a shell layer with too much indebtedness. Although we do not believe that this will have a significant effect, it is not therefore reasonable to adopt such a driving rule, and we are therefore in favour of what the plurality is in favour of here – we think this is a good rule to legislate. There are two aspects here, as well as the creditor. One is for the buyer, and the other is for the other partners. When it concerns the buyer, we believe that it is initially the buyer's own responsibility, but when it concerns the other partners, we think that they should have the right to be relatively confident that those who buy parts of a warrant have a solidity that will enable them to meet their obligations. Although one has a maximum of 75 pst. common debt, that means 25 pst. must be provided in other ways. So there is no prohibition in this case that the 25 pst. – which is therefore intrigued – should not be financed by a bank for each part-owner and a barricade builder. But what's the point here is that then one has to go through a credit rating. Then one goes through a process where the bank goes through its revenues and expenses, and evaluates with the buyer whether he is able to bet this debt of 25 pst. of the cost of the warrants, in addition to part of the public debt. This means, of course, that if you have a If there is someone to finance it, they must use a credit rating. Therefore, we choose to support the plurality in this matter. It shall be easy to enter the housing market. It shall be easy to get into the joint, but it shall not be too easy. So not everyone is able to bet this kind of cost, and then you have to have an assessment of it. Some people don't come in, and they use them to rent a building. Another thing that's also regulated here is speculation. There is also something behind a joint committee. The point is, as has been said both by the case-speaker and by the representative Haugli, that those who buy part of a barricade team should have the ability to house in the apartment. So if you buy more parts, you won't be able to rent more apartments. It is open-minded, and therefore this is a natural regulation, a natural driving rule, which also the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e425	I have lived in many different types of dwellings. I've rented a dwelling, I've had an apartment in the same house, I've lived in a row house, I've lived in a single home, and I've lived in a housing camp. I now live in a housing camp on Tøenen and two days ago I was elected again to the board of directors of the housing team. I would like to underline one thing: I love housing. I believe that the housing model – living together, being responsible for the maintenance of the farm together, has quite good and structured rules to ensure that this is properly operated – is a proper and great Norwegian thing. I'm sure they have this in many other places as well. If you travel to Murmansk and look at Russians who live and own each of their apartments in the block, and no one is responsible for the whole, you realize that these are things that we've made work. There are two reasons why we are now implementing the legislative changes that lie here. One is that we want to take care of the people who buy flats, that they need to be sure that when they buy a flat, there must be something that is safe, like a proper and proper housing law. The second is that we want to take care of the rumors of the settlement laws. It is not that newspaper headlines led to these changes. It's just the reality that in Norway we had some little ripples of what was called the subprime crisis in the United States. We had the small ripple, and it was in that some of the housing laws that were formed outside the housing laws were created in such a way that the common debt was too high, the deductions were subject to deductions for several years, and this was at a time when the interest rates were incredibly low. So interest went up again and normalized, and that led to a bunch of people having problems, plus that the information was too bad. So there's a lot of things we could have done with this, and it would have been possible to discuss more models to make sure this. One thing everyone agrees on is that the information should be better. In the past it was that on very many of the brokers' presentations of dwellings the common debt was not listed. One got the impression that housing flats could be much, much cheaper than what they really were, because the common debt was not listed. What was about information, we did something with it already in the previous period, and we're strengthening the information for people who buy their housing flats, further now. The second piece was what went on for people's safety when everything went wrong. One of the things we noticed was that the well-driving housing laws, like that. what I live in had good insurance arrangements. I am part of a common insurance scheme which means that if one of the tenants does not pay their rent or, for that matter, is unable to pay their rent, this does not go beyond the community, because it is insured against. So we're going to get that done with the law right over here. The third thing is that we're going to avoid housing strikes coming in the critical situation at all that people won't be able to pay the obligations that lie there. There are several variants we could choose. We could choose to have a larger fuse of the interest rate. If you look at the housing laws that are healthy initially, none of them have received their funding from the House Bank, which has gone beyond the end. There could be restrictions on the right to deduct, and the legislation could be reversed as it was in the old days. I myself was involved in examining a proposal from Erna Solberg when we revised the housing law, which made it easier to create housing laws outside the large housing estate laws. One of the things the housing law has clearly stated is that there are none of the housing laws that are run by housing companies that have gone beyond the end. It's the housing laws that are created by speculators, or by others who run only one project, without regard to the entire lifetime of the housing team, that have gone beyond the end. But we chose to do what the NOU proposed, namely NOU 2009:17 Securing against the loss of common costs in housing laws. We chose to land on it, because that was what was the broadest assessment, and that was what most hearing bodies thought was right to go for, and that was going for a strengthening of what was just about the operation in the community, what was about how much debt a housing law should take up. Then we're betting that the rules we have, and the opportunities that local authorities have to grant start-up loans to individuals, who are a very good system, should still be able to give everyone the opportunity to get a right-of-occupancy apartment – and be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e446	The amendments to the law on housing law, etc. as proposed in this proposal, the Committee broadly agrees. The hearing also showed that almost all the hearing bodies were in favour of these changes. The housing structure and housing law system was established in time to ensure good and safe housing for most people. The changes proposed here are intended to ensure that this is the case in the future. The rapporteur has given a good account of what these legislative changes mean, and also of one aspect of which the Committee disagrees a little. It concerns the proposal that there should be no set-up of housing rights below with a loan of more than 75 pst. common debt. The Christian People's Party supports this. In recent years, there has been a negative focus on so-called low-deposit housing, where housing buyers do not need much equity to finance the housing purchase. The advantage is, of course, that it is easier for people with limited equity to enter the housing market, but it has been shown that problems arise where the buyer does not understand the consequences of what they have purchased and where they do not have the economy to pay their share of the common costs. There are in particular two considerations which are taken into account here: the consideration of the purchaser himself, and not least the consideration of the other unit-holders in the right of residence. Such a maximum would also reduce the risk that unit-holders would have to assume the obligations of neighbours in the event of default of loan obligations. Another aspect of which there has been a great deal of agreement is the obligation to disclose when buying such dwellings. In particular, the brokerage association referred to this in its contribution during the hearing. Under the law in force, real estate agents have an obligation to disclose the terms and conditions of the loan for the redemption of the common debt and the calculation of the monthly common costs and other determined costs. However, if the brokers are to be able to explain this through a sale, the real estate agents must also have the opportunity to obtain this information from the owners of the housing laws. As it is today, the real estate agents do not in many cases receive information from businessmen who broker actual obligations to disclose. And so, in order to put in place such an obvious obligation to provide information, the minority makes the following suggestions: «Compensation may not be required without the owner or broker of the commercial driver/sharer having provided any information relevant to the trading and execution thereof.» The Landsförbund of Norske Boligbygelags is also concerned with this in their input, where they decide that a statement of what the instalments will be in dollars after the non-deductible period and how much the instalments will result in an increase in the common costs of each unit-holder, given that the amortisation plan is maintained. I hope that the government will take the opposition's proposal with them in its further work, and if the Council of State had given a signal about this, it might be interesting to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal, to ensure that this is assessed even after we have finished the case. For this proposal, a proposal is also extremely beneficial to the individual purchaser and the type of shares and the type of living quarters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e469	This case comes after a promise from the government when the Left promoted a Document No. Eight proposals for many changes to the law on housing law. The government wanted to go through the law and get back to Stortinget with a uniform review. So we are pleased that the government has done this review, and we agree with most of the proposals. They are in line with the original Left proposal, both in terms of marketing and in terms of the safeguard mechanism. We have also seen that the repayment length of first-home bank loans has been increased from 20 to 30 years, and so is the Left. What we today disagree with the government is § 2-14, which goes on a loan basis. I have to admit that there was a concern after all the media releases that led to the Left-Feared Document No. The 8th proposal. The review that has been followed by how many bankruptcies it has really been, and how it has been compounded, shows that the problem was much smaller than it could look like at the beginning. We don't see any reason to limit the lending rate, because we don't see how it can stop the projects that we don't like. I also notice that everything that is not collective or public is speculation. I wonder if SV thinks that all the purposes of making money by definition are speculation, or whether there are other definitions of speculation. The proposal we in the Left have been much more likely to consider when it comes to regulating this market is going to limit the number of years of discharge. Because it would have given a much better incentive to avoid exactly what we've seen as a result of the law. Now we haven't promoted it here today, but we're still open that it had meant better regulation than the proposal that the government has put forward here. So we want to vote against Section 2-14. I'm a little uncertain about whether the Presidency or the Hall notices what I'm saying now, so I'm going to say it again: we're going to vote against §2-14. Otherwise, we support the proposals to the government, which we believe to be very good, based on our original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e482	In recent years, there has been a lot of negative focus on so-called low-injection buildings and burets. In the media, we have written about some projects in which young people have let themselves be lured into buying housing at a seemingly low price. Responsibility for public debt, the possibility of increased overheads and the responsibility for the payment problems of the neighbour have been sub-communicated to purchasers. This has caused some buyers to have problems complying with their debt obligations, and the entire shell model was at risk of getting into trouble. After the government released Prop on 30 April this year. 115 L about changes in the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law, etc., I have generally only heard good words about the law on the law. I'm glad – not because the government gets commended, but because the aim of these rules is to prevent new problems for individuals and the law. I have particularly noticed that during the hearing of the proposals of the Municipal and Administrative Committee on 12 May of this year, the review was a positive assessment of the government's proposals, and that there were objections to the legislative proposals. I am also pleased that it seems that all the proposals will be adopted today, and that a broad majority in the Enlarged Committee will end up with most of the proposals. In particular, it is important that all parties will prevent speculators from entering into agreements with builders on the purchase of building buildings that they are not allowed to own themselves. The form of the framework shall be a safe form of a bow for individuals who are to bow in the dwelling themselves, not a speculation object for persons with short-term profit motives. This user-responsive perspective has been a basic pillar of the framework model, and this is something we must also focus on in the future. All parties agree that information on the total price and cost development of the warrants must be improved. It shall ensure a better basis for potential buyers to assess whether to purchase the particular housing type. This is a very important step in preventing new problems with shelling sites. The sale of building constructions usually takes place through professional operators. The seller's obligation to provide information on the total price will only apply to professional operators, such as real estate agents and lawyers. This is due to an unanticipated knowledge of the law of private sellers, and to the fact that such choices are likely to occur within the family or between others. From the end of the year, private individuals can choose to build a building for sale on Finn.no and other electronic sales portals. In connection with this, I have noticed that the majority of the municipal and administrative committees ask the government to follow the scope of the private hall, and come back to the Stortinget if there is a need to extend the information obligation to also include private sellers. Of course, we should follow these developments. I note with some surprise that the Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed to the proposal to set an upper limit on the communal debt of the Bouretschlag when the layer is formed. After the government's assessment, setting such a limit is 75 pst. an important step to prevent new problems with low-injection buildings. This rule will lead to the need for small capital holders to apply for additional private loans in order to finance the requirement of own funds. They must be given a credit rating, and long-terms are obliged to warn against borrowing from unpayable borrowers. The aim of the rule is, of course, not to make it harder to enter the housing market. Persons with low paying ability may receive loans in private banks or start-up loans through the municipality, even if they have small equity. On the other hand, the point of law-enforcement agents is to save people who have no ability to pay from entering into a debt trap and to protect the other unit-holders from financial losses caused by payment defaults from people without means to pay the common costs. Another important step that we are proposing is to lay down rules on hedging arrangements against the loss of warrants due to payment defaults by the unit-holders. It is not appropriate to require a warrant to enter into such a hedging arrangement or to require existing hedging providers to include all warrants in the arrangement. The supply and demand for such a product would be a matter for the parties to clarify on the basis of an assessment of the premium to be included and the risk of taking up cage layers in the scheme. The purpose of the regulation is to ensure that the supply provided actually provides the necessary security, and to prevent anyone from buying false security. There is still some regulatory work to be done. It should be in place during the fall. Finally, the transmission proposal: I think it is difficult, as these are legislative proposals, but I will take with me the recordings that have come here and pass them on to the Ministry of Finance, which is the responsible department for that part of the legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e502	Laws of residence have always been a form of ownership intended to secure housing for all, regardless of financial possibilities. And because good and safe housing for all has been an overall political goal here in the country, the housing laws have also played an important role in Norwegian housing policy. It is also reflected in the prevalence — about 14 pst. of all Norwegian dwellings, or 345000 dwellings, are residential properties. The basis for the residence is a sense of solidarity. There is a mutual obligation of solidarity between the residents to answer for the total obligations of the residency court. In recent times, we have also seen examples of one or more residents not being able to answer for their obligations, and in some cases this has also resulted in the law of residence as a whole not being able to answer for their obligations, for example. by not paying their interest and instalments. In its ultimate consequence, this has led to bankruptcy in housing laws. Luckily, it's rare for housing companies to go bankrupt. However, in the context of the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, the number of bankruptcies has increased. Overall, seven bankruptcies have been opened since 2002, although most occurred in the period 2008–09. Although these are not very many bankruptcies, they may have major consequences for those affected. A hedging arrangement may prevent financial losses and risks resulting from the non-payment of common costs and could therefore also provide a security for the individual rightholder. At present, there are several different insurance schemes, but the area is under-regulated. The Ministry therefore proposes, in the light of the 2009 NOU:17, safeguarding against the loss of common costs in housing laws, new legal provisions to regulate the insurance schemes and to give them a minimum of rights. Furthermore, it is proposed to require a minimum amount of capital so that the hedging arrangements can cover any losses that may arise. It is important to stress that the conclusion of a hedging arrangement would be voluntary for the housing laws. In this way, the new provisions will not impose unnecessary expenditure on residents without their own acceptance. The legislative provision proposed that those seeking to provide a hedge must be authorised to carry out non-life insurance or financial activities will ensure that the operators have the capital necessary to cover the losses that may arise. It will also contribute to the generalisation of hedges in relation to other insurance schemes. This bill will provide security for the economy of housing rights that provide protection against the loss of common costs, thereby increasing the security of the individual rightholder. In addition, there is a basis to assume that the subscription of hedges can provide better loan conditions for banks, as the hedging mechanism also reduces the bank’s risk of lending. It is therefore noted with pleasure that a unanimous committee is joining the proposals on the hedging mechanism for losses arising from the failure of the common costs. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, in their comments on the matter, points out that some legal provisions contain judgement, and thus the parties' costs of legal advice will increase. Any legal provision contains a greater or lesser margin of discretion, which in its ultimate consequence is the responsibility of the courts to clarify. It will always be such that there is a balance between the complexity of legal provisions and the need to secure the parties through legislation. I would like to remind you that we are dealing with issues that could lead to the loss of own housing, which for most people will be dramatic. It is therefore clearly in favour of emphasising better regulation, although this may lead to an increase in the cost of the housing laws for legal advice. For me, it is at least clear that the consequences of the loss of owner-occupied housing weigh the most heavily in this case. Then I register that the representative Skei Grande has a touching concern for the freedom that individual should have to assume loan obligations. This gives me reason to recall that there were a wide range of hearings at the hearing, including: by the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council, the Landsförbund et al., which supported the proposal to limit borrowings, precisely in order to protect the individual rightholder.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e525	The Labour Party wants people to be able to buy their own home. It is then important that the housing market has dwellings in different price classes and ownership forms. The fact that we set up housing laws in our time was an important tool for people to secure their own housing. What has been a challenge, and that has put the form of housing in a bad light, are the so-called low-deposit homes, which are closer to 80 pst. the value is common to the law of residence and only the remainder is capital contributions from the purchaser. It may seem provocative, but it's a premise that you can also pay the share of the common debt and not just the interest and repayments on loans you personally have in the bank. The legislative proposal we are dealing with today will have a positive impact on the housing market and will prevent similar situations from happening again by setting a ceiling of 75 pst. on what the public debt may be of the total liability of the dwelling and that there will be an obligation to provide good information on what the total cost will be when purchasing a housing law apartment. The bill also deals with Santa Claus for housing properties. In connection with some low deposit projects, fixed conditions have been established for dwellings due to land already being built up. This is done by investors purchasing older urban estates that are rehabilitated and then sold as housing properties or joint ventures. The plot is transferred to a company that attaches it away to the law of residence or the joint venture. It appears that in such a case, the fastening institute is an instrument for increasing profits. The establishment of a fastening relationship means that disputes may arise concerning the regulation of the fastening charge, the availability of land, the extension of the fastening contract, the redemption of the land, etc. It can also make it difficult to value the dwellings properly. The Government therefore proposes a ban on fixed conditions in built-up owner-occupied areas when the construction is mainly to be used for residential purposes. The Right Party and the Advance Party want this to also apply to recreational dwellings in housing law, but the Workers' Party believes that this is a very small problem and that leisure accommodation is in a position different from the one in which you are to live. The working party believes that housing needs special protection. Otherwise, I notice that the right of the comment claims that in some cases more regulation of the law brings greater disadvantages than benefits, and that the law becomes too detailed in relation to the problem it has to solve, but that they would like to regulate leisure property owned in housing laws with parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e540	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e543	I thought I'd start by drawing the congregation's attention to the international economic situation, where we know that housing speculation has been a significant driver, and too much and too cheap credit over time now threatens our economy dramatically. Many have believed that this was done. There's no reason to believe. On the contrary, there is great concern at international level, even in our very immediate countries. In the Netherlands, yesterday's elections were held. The Liberal Party won because they promised the greatest budget cut above public budgets. The point of this is that the world can also change for Norway in the time to come, and perhaps in a way that we are not able to understand today. I mention this because I believe that the law we now have for treatment can be placed under the heading «Requirements for soundness and accountability». And delimiting the possibilities for people with low paying ability to assume obligations they do not have power is good politics. I believe that this is an important contribution to ensuring a healthier housing market in this segment. If we look around us, there are also many countries that are now considering introducing, or having already introduced, different regulation of their banking and financial sector, thus imposing more stringent requirements directly or indirectly on the soundness and accountability of the housing market. In this way, it is not certain that what we are dealing with now is specific, but that it may become more of this type of regulation, more of this kind of discussion, also in the future, and in other parts of the housing market than in the housing type. Furthermore, the rules are clarified by prohibiting speculation and by ensuring that all information is on the table when it is purchased and sold. The result is the securing of an important form of residence. I also want to add that the broad consensus that is around the most essential of this bill, the citizen of broad disintegration. My point is that it's done a good job, and it's a timely job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e556	I asked for the word again because I was injured to say that the Progress Party is against the proposal to set an upper limit on the community debt of the burette team when the layer was created. It does not make the progress party. Although the game has critical comments, they do not go against them. I think it's right to fix it, so it gets tidy. Since I have been given the floor, I would like to stress the importance of having a maximum limit for the common debt. When borrowing common loans, future unit-holders are not credited. It is clear that without credit rating and non-advisory obligations, which are now imposed on long-term workers, the buyer himself risks losing money, the neighbours can be stuck with the bill, and, in the worst case, the law can go bankrupt. It has also been a central feature of the SSU action package, which went through the problem of low-injection housing. Some have claimed that the caregivers will make it harder for young people and others to establish themselves in the housing market. That's hardly right. People with payment skills, as I said before, can get a start-up loan to finance all or part of the deposit. And those who don't have that ability shouldn't be tempted to become owners either. Through the barricades, many people have been given safe and good housing over time. In the case of the legislative changes adopted by the Stortinget today, the aim is to further develop and secure the system of barricades as a good and safe way to own homes for many in the future. Norway is special, because it's a very high proportion of the people who own their own dwelling. Being able to put the key in the door, go in and know that one is home in one's own dwelling, is a great value that we should also bring into the future. I am very pleased with the broad connection that is in Stortinget today so that, in form, the burette layer can further evolve into a safe and good part of it that owes it to ensure the greatest investment in life, easy to buy its own dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e569	I would first like to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State was up and correcting the misunderstanding that arose by the Council of State believing that the Progress Party went against the 75 pst limit. Whether it's because I've expressed myself unclearly from the pulpit, or it's because one has a manuscript like a letter yesterday, before one started the debate, I'm not going to wonder, but at least I'm glad that this is corrected. The party of progress is behind the plural in this matter. We don't think it has any great effect to introduce a maximum limit of 75 pst. public debt such a situation is today, because it would be difficult to finance more than 75 pst. public debt for a shell stock. It might also be difficult to sell shares with too high a common interest. How the situation is in five years, in ten years, in fifteen years, we know little about, so we thought it might be good to have such a driving rule, and legislate such a driving rule, despite the fact that this will not have the big effect today and the next few months. What is important to ensure that a person enters the housing market is to facilitate cheaper housing, cheap access tickets, especially for young people. But one has some building regulations that go the opposite way, on which we have different estimates, for example. we have received some feedback that the size of the disabled toilet and such things will cost the entrance ticket for many. Otherwise, I would say that I have rarely been so in agreement with the Council of Ministers of Navarsete as I was in what she said in her last post. I mean, it's important with this maximum limit of 75 pst. And I wonder, in fact, that both the Right and the Left are totally opposed to such a regulation. They say it should be possible to record 100 pst. common debt. So that means that you can get a share of 1 heads that can be translated. I find it hard to see that this is a positive development when we have seen the consequences of this, both for the individual and for creditors and other barbers. They have had great consequences for bankruptcy. So the Progress Party is going to go against that we're not going to have a limit. We support the plural and want a maximum of 75 pst. common debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e580	If you think of 100 pst. common debt means, of course, having one borrower, while in reality today it is said that a typical flat for housing is financed through the common debt, such as the law of residence, and thus also the unit-holders, are responsible for more indirectly. In addition, there are either savings or additional loans. Now, in the childhood of the co-operation, there were ambitions that the members would save a considerable amount before drawing shares. OBOS was, for example, based on such an idea. It was at first with Oslo and Omgn Bolig and Savelag. So they changed the abbreviation from OOBS to OBOS. After that, the savings were completely gone. So it's very common that you have to finance this part of the loan. Those who are then poorly funded tend to draw up credit cards and other financing which are very expensive and which they carry on with them in a possible bankruptcy. I want to inform Stortinget that a lawyer has gone through and analysed these ten cases of bankruptcy and found that the lack of payment is only one of the problems. Where the non-payment by joint owners has been included, it is due to an increase in interest during the period and not to an amount that was too high initially. Another common feature is that the projects have remained unsold. So, those who have bought have had full risk from the first day, and there have not been people to pay common costs in the unsold shares. So it doesn't have to do with default, it has to do with unsold shares. The last major explanation element was that several of the housing laws had provided apartments with defects, which had then incurred large repair costs. So if we look at what you're magnifying to be the main problem, which is to defend this intervention in a relationship between the bank and the borrower, it's going to be a very small problem, and where you probably choose a very wrong and inappropriate tool to fight it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e591	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e594	I would like to stress that I am not dissenting from the fact that there are other risks, too, that go on with unselling shares, and also when it relates to interest rate development and total debt and such things that can be at least equal dangers. But the point is, if we're going to allow 100 pst. common debt, unfortunately, would lead to many entering the housing market being unable to defend their obligations. It will create problems for them, it will create problems for the others in that type of barricade, and that will, of course, lead to some bankruptcy. Unfortunately, this may also lead to more or less future I don't think anyone would want to light it up. That's why we support the majority in this case when it applies to a maximum of 75 pst. common debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e599	It was Michael Tetzschner's post that made me draw again. The reality description of the problem we're discussing today is that the weaker averages withdraw the credit card, it can't be overlooked without commenting on it. The challenge of low-income housing law is that individuals are put in a difficult economic situation because they lack an overview of the obligations that lie in the law on housing in the short and long term and buy a share without being able to operate the obligations over time. It's a problem, and we're trying to solve it by proposing a 75 pst rule. When the right vote against it, they are on collision courses with both the financial industry and the consumer authorities, which have issued hearing opinions supporting such a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e606	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3957]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e622	The proposals we are now considering, which deal with changes in the Planning and Building Act – the building case section – are a series of corrections that have nothing to do with them but correcting errors in the legal text. There is a good deal of clarification, and some points are about giving more precise regulatory homes – or giving regulatory homes at all – to the department and to the government, so that they can develop regulations to ensure that the construction process can go better in the coming period. I thought I would link a very small note to a problem that has been raised in the discussion. I would also like to say that this is something to which the committee subscribes unanimously – without any counter-proposals or warnings that any part of the law will be argued against or voted against by any of the parties. So these are things we agree on. But there's one thing I'm going to link some comments to, and that's the question that's about cracks. There has been a persistent problem, especially in the Oslo area and some other parts of the eastern region, where we have had extensive construction work. We've had a development in the direction of the closest slum-like trends linked to standing cracks. The flares shall be temporary. However, there is room for them to remain for more than two years, which is the general concept of temporaryity in the law. They shall be able to stand there for two years if they are linked to specific projects. It makes it easier to start building them. Lower requirements are also required than for other buildings. On this occasion, we would like to stress that, on the part of the government – and on the part of the majority of the population – we believe that the municipalities have sufficient tools in today's planning and building laws to ensure that a person does not get this kind of slumming. They have the possibility to impose removal and demolition and rectification in this respect. But we're going to follow this development carefully, because it's extremely important that we don't get – let's say – parts of an area with more or less permanent set-aside standing, with significantly lower requirements, and with significantly less possibilities for regulation by the municipalities. So we agree on the law as it stands, and that's why we expect this to go right through the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e635	This may indicate, as several speakers have not signed up for case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3959]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e651	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e660	The proposal for an increase in the use of binding referenda has been promoted by five representatives of the Progress Party. Their aim is to increase the influence of voters and to increase their turnout. Objectives are an overall municipal and management committee. However, a large majority of the Committee disagrees with the rapporteurs that binding referendums are the way to go. The guiding idea of democracy is that the people decide. It's from the ancient Greek urban communities, and it's more than 2,500 years old. The free men of the day – and it was only men, for women and slaves were not citizens – met in the square to decide important questions in hand-creeding. referendums are an example of the fact that an undemocratic principle has survived – as a niche in a state system based otherwise on representativeness. Binding referendums have little tradition in Norway. At national level, we've never had it. The Alcohol Act gave rise to former local citizens’ initiatives and binding referenda. The scheme was terminated in 1989. However, local referendums have had an important place in the development of Norwegian democracy and are still common. In 1892 there were rules for referendums on the choice of educational objectives at school, two years later on the sale of alcohol. In both cases, women had the right to vote. In Norway, women were first given the right to vote in direct local democracy. Since, in these days, we mark the 100th anniversary of general female voting rights for local governments, it is worth mentioning that women have had the right to vote in local referendums for almost 120 years. Consulting referendums were recently incorporated into the municipal law § 39(b). Municipalities are free to avail themselves of this access. Number from the SSB shows that there have been 679 local referendums since 1970. The advice given in these votes has been followed by the local government and the county council for approx. 90 pst. of the cases. The proposers are concerned with voting participation. International experience shows that referenda contributes to the activation of voters in exceptional situations, while electoral participation is low where direct democracy is often practiced. Decisions taken by a minority of voters, and by a small majority, do not have the popular anchor that the proposers want. Referendums were the subject of the Election Law Committee. They had four main objections to the increased use of referendums: low electoral participation, special interests against public interests, selection competence and possible governance implications. The issue was also assessed by the Control and Constitutional Committee in 2005. The majority of those expressing concern for action group democracy and that referendums may be influenced by becoming ‘minor anchors’. In countries with federal governance systems, binding referendums are more common. The proposers refer to the referendums on minarets in Switzerland and property taxes in California as successful examples of the use of such referenda. It is gratifying that a large majority – all parties except the Progress Party – establish that these are examples of referendums giving a little overall policy. The result in Switzerland is contrary to its international obligations, and the budgetary situation in California has been almost unmanageable since the loss of control over the income side by the representative bodies. Proposals are particularly concerned with toll-funded projects. It is not so difficult to understand, as there is an inconceivable case in the Progress Party and it seems that it is probably easier to transfer responsibility to the voters than to take responsibility for correct, but controversial, positions. Today, toll-financed projects are anchored in municipal and county decisions before the case is further dealt with in the State Road Administration, the Ministry of Transport and then in Stortinget. The majority believe that it should still be up to local elected bodies to conduct referendums in advance of the local treatment of such cases. It is an important aspect of democracy that voters can hold political parties responsible both for individual decisions taken and for the whole of the policy pursued. The majority of the Committee believes that referenda is an important niche in representative democracy, but believes that there are serious reasons against binding referenda. We therefore propose that the proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e690	The next speaker is Bård Hoksrud, then State Councillor Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e693	The Progress Party wants to strengthen Norwegian democracy by shifting power from politicians and bureaucrats to people most. The goal is for most people to have more power over their own neighbourhood and the government of the country. In the proposal for a representative, document 8:60, we therefore propose an increase in direct democracy through binding referendums. There is no doubt that the referendums on the EU created a huge public exposure, and the turnout in 1994 was a total of 89 pst. Why should we not then be able to use the same tool when it comes to e.g.: data retention directive, immigration policy, toll financing for infrastructure projects and other important issues? In addition, the position of the centre party in the EU vote, where they would not follow a 'yes' majority, shows the need to secure a system of referendums. The Government and the Minister for Municipal Affairs, Liv Signe Navarsete, apparently feel high above most people and deliberately promote the concept of 'weak electoral competence' in order to argue against the use of referendums. So the government parties, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party claim that most people have no competence to address difficult political issues, and that it is therefore best for bureaucrats and politicians to make decisions for them. It is not by chance that the same parties are attached to sky-high taxes and taxes, precisely because taxes and taxes shift power from people most to politicians and bureaucrats. I'm a politician, but I hadn't slept very well at night if my only political vision was to increase the power of the politician over the individual. Jens Stoltenberg used his New Year's Eve to talk about consultation and involvement, and the Center Party has gone even further by talking about the difference between grassroots democracy and elite networks. Unfortunately, it may seem that the government parties are in charge of elite networks rather than grassroots democracy. For they have deliberately weakened local democracy through, among other things. shifting power from the municipalities to the county/region through the administrative reform. I have the impression that the voters first and foremost associate this government with empty promises and inconsequential rhetoric, and our proposal on referendums was a golden occasion that the government should have embraced if it meant it was serious. It is very sad that all the parties on the Grand Duchy, apart from the Progress Party, are in favour of a comitology that claims that binding referenda provides a little general policy, because what they say indirectly is that it is only the political elite that is able to see the big lines. I'm not surprised that the left-hand side means this, but it's sad for a FrP to see that our friends in the Right and Christian People's Party are involved in this poorly obscured power arrogance. Let me conclude by making some comments on the proposal on tolls. Every year, the government receives up to 60 billion. NOK in taxes and charges on the car, while the drivers only get back above 20 billion. kr in the form of operation of the roads, maintenance and investment in the road network. Now the new bombs are being built all over the country, and the government is putting two hands on so-called local toll initiatives. But where do these initiatives actually come from? The Government’s national transport plan contains 63 road projects where toll financing is reserved. So the initiative comes not from local politicians at grassroots level but from the top level of the government apparatus. This is blackmail to local politicians all over the country, who have been so frustrated by waiting for state road investment that they say yes to toll financing. Technology now gives us better opportunities to move power from politicians and bureaucrats to people most than ever before in history. Let's seize that opportunity and further develop our democracy by using the new possibilities. I would like to take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e710	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will recall the importance of drawing up early in a debate so that the President's information on who the next speaker is can have some meaning. It is previously stated that the next speaker is the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete, but in the meantime the representatives Michael Tetzschner and Heikki Holmås have signed up. They get the word in that order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e715	What made me speak was that Hoksrud's representative distributed the characteristics of the democratic attitude of other parties, and then the attitude towards binding referenda was the decisive feature. I just want to stress on behalf of the Right that, first of all, we are a strong supporter of representative democracy and are keenly concerned about what can be done to improve the functioning of representative democracies. Secondly, we do not, in principle, object to referendums if they are advisory and can also take place locally. I have a little feeling that there is really the resistance to tolls that are the driving motive behind the representative Hoksrud's involvement in local self-government here, because if we see it in the context of the attitude of the Progress Party, which just now became clear in the context of the delivery of the municipal proposition, there is very little faith in the democratic intermediary between state norms and users. There will at all be no support for framework funding and distribution keys. There you will only have legal, need-driven standards, state standards that must be trampled down on local democracy. So, finally, I want to be so bold as to say that with regard to the functions of representative democracy, perhaps the Progress Party can also look a little at its own organisational practices and its own party culture, because I have noticed – if you are to trust the press, which you can not always, but even with the reservation – that it is probably the basis for stating that the Progress Party is one of the most centralized Norwegian parties. They let out notices to the local states about who to nominate in connection with deposit elections, etc. So I think these are improvement points for democracy. I agree with the representative. But maybe you should start sweeping at your own door?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e729	Actually, I don't want to hear what I stand for being called 'empty promises', 'contentless rhetoric' and 'powerful arrogance', when that representative Hoksrud himself came here, so until those degrees were inconclusive rhetoric and empty promises. I am a very strong supporter of referendums. I'm for it. SV is for what we have programmed that we want referendums to be used in local and concrete matters. We're followers of it, and we've gone in for it and used it in several different municipalities -- won in some and lost in some, and that's what it's supposed to be, because people think different things. Then the politicians in that municipality have followed up the things that are there. The second part of the proposal here, to vote in favour of binding referendums, we have no tradition of that. It is about the seventh and last time that politicians are elected to the different local governments, who have to sit with responsibility. I'll give you one good reason why it should be like that. Then I'm going to challenge Bård Hoksrud on a couple of points. For example, if a road project like Bård Hoksrud makes a referendum, it's scheduled to cost 100 million. NOK, and then it ends up costing 1 billion. kr, so that the toll costs are significantly increased for the inhabitants of the municipality who voted in favour of this, and who have been tricked by the politicians in their municipality to vote for the project, because they have in some way been suggested too little cost of the project, is it possible for Bård Hoksrud to sit there and say yes, but you voted for this? Does not Bård Hoksrud see that then it is an advantage that he is, as a politician in that municipality, who agrees to vote for this project and who has received a council, who is actually responsible for the road project that is being carried out? Another, quite specific example is Oslopackak 3. The wolf split has become several times as many animals as assumed. There is no doubt that Oslopackak 3 – we are struggling with it in Oslo now – is going to be much more expensive than the stipulations that were originally there. If that's how everyone has agreed to finance Oslopacket 3, where there are both environmental toll projects and toll projects to go to public transport and something to do, and people have voted for this project on the basis of it, and then you end up saying no, we have to cut all the collective funds, then people have said yes to a package, but there's just not enough money in that package. Does not Bård Hoksrud see that then it is an advantage that politicians are responsible for this? Or what does Bård Hoksrud think you should do in such a situation, if you have a binding referendum? Let me just do one last thing about this. With referenda, will Mr. Bård Hoksrud, as an advance party representative, be willing to follow what people say, even if all the FrPs who have voted in that case have voted against? In that case, I think it's positive. At all: referendums are great. There is nothing that has mobilised for referendums as much as the European Union vote, as Mr Bård Hoksrud himself had in mind. But it has to happen in limited cases, where it is possible to give some simple answers, either yes or no. It's in those areas where referendums work best, and not in very complicated matters. Finally, I would like to say to what was about ‘contentless rhetoric’, which Mr Hoksrud believed that the parties of government, and in and of all the parties in the Chamber including the Right and Christian People’s Party, stood for: No parties in this bigotry are more governmental than the Progress Party. The party of progress has clearly warned that they, for example, are do not want to include childcare allowances in the municipal economy, which will mean a transfer of responsibility and money to municipalities of large size – the largest inclusion ever. The promotion party wants to deprive local democracy of the responsibility for key tasks – health care, care for the elderly and school. The country shall determine the amount of money to be spent on this. The point is that there will be much, much less left to rule for through economic frameworks if the Progress Party gets an impact on its policy. No party is more state-friendly and will gather power in the country on fewer hands than the Advance Party wants. The rest of us are quite democratically oriented and for local democracy to have great influence and power. Choosing to give room to say that we want to let people locally decide whether they want to go in for toll financing is actually local democracy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e748	It's a question of great principle value that's been raised in the Grand Duchy's hall today. If one had chosen to vote on the proposals of the Progress Party, this would have brought about something completely new in the representative system we have in Norway, which is applicable at both national and local level, and which is enshrined in the Constitution and Municipality. It's a system that fortunately has great legitimacy among people. It's a system that opens up advisory folklore on important issues. We have had some of these, which have been mentioned – perhaps the EU votes are what most people will remember. There have been several of them. At local level, there have been quite a number – 660 in the period 1970–2008. So today's system doesn't prevent one from righting the people, both locally and nationally, to the extent that one wants. But from then on, moving on to binding genocide, is something completely different. The representative democracy we have in Norway gives room for soundness. There is room for different moments to be placed on each other's behalf. It gives room for those who are elected by the people, and will rule for the people, to take the responsibility that comes with it, and that they cannot rely on single voices, one might say, in the people, who can be triggered, where individual groups can run running with the result that one might not have thought, and which turns out afterwards to have a rash that had not thought through in advance. Examples of this from Switzerland and California have been mentioned from the pulpit. We should be proud of the Norwegian representative democracy. We're going to build it under it. Through that, we're actually referring to what people most think. We hear that especially when there are choices. People can choose the representatives they best care for their wheat. But it's also a whole system. I don't think those who go to choices, necessarily choose a game that has a special position in a single case. I think most people are well able to see the sanity of their own lives, which means that one will choose a party where both ideological and practical politics sees that there are not empty promises, but that one sees that one is working to achieve goals that one is some about reaching. The relationship with Grundlova and Kommunelova is – as the letter from me and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs – a main reason why one does not want to go along the lines of proposals. This has previously been a matter for Stortinget i Ot.prp. No 44 for 2004–2005, where it was assessed that there were no constitutional obstacles to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg being able to introduce a settlement in the municipality of El Salvador allowing binding local populations. Nevertheless, it was not recommended to do so. The Storting's multiplicity didn't want to do it either. The representative system that we have in Norway makes it possible to ensure holistic policies to a greater extent than public opinion. Action group democracy can be strengthened at the expense of representative democracy through the introduction of binding referendums. There is also uncertainty about the effects of such a system. I have not changed my view of this. I'm glad that there's a broad majority in this room that, in the future, too, wants the elected representatives to take on the responsibility of being a good one when a candidate is elected and elected, whether it's in local government, in county councils or to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e762	The Council of State boasts unrelentingly of its commitment to democracy and local democracy. But when local politicians are about to put a gun on their head and get the message: either you're voting to go in for tolls, or you're not getting any way at all – I don't want to say that there's exactly a lot of democracy inside the picture. I want to ask the Council of State if she thinks this is an excellent example of democracy. So you're holding your gun against your head and you can't do anything, because if you don't do that to the government and the government, you won't get anywhere. Then I want to ask about the centre party's grassroots democracy. The council said she was busy listening to people. But if you don't agree with the people, you shouldn't listen to the people anymore. Then you do what you want. Is that the grassroots democracy of the Council of State and the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e770	With respect to reporting, I think it's going to be easy rhetoric when you don't see that through the system we have, toll projects are going to be decided by both local and county councils. No one's pointing a gun at anyone, no one's forced to adopt a toll project. You can choose to wait a project until it enters the set of permissions specified by Size in the annual budget. If you want a faster performance, it is up to the local authorities to decide locally with other parties. It's a good system, and it's a separate better system than if you were going to go for it. The grassroots democracy works. We listen, take it with us. But we also have a responsibility to rent, in a holistic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e777	The Council of State is quite right that this is a matter of great principle value. It's about something new in the representative system we know. And that's what the Progress Party is dedicated to, namely, developing this further and shifting power from politicians to citizens. Why is the government more concerned with non-binding advice than letting people decide for themselves through a binding referendum? It is true that the political platform for the majority government speaks beautifully about: ‘A living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is essential for meeting the societal challenges’. Is not the widespread use of referendums, and not least binding referendums, a good way to revitalise a living and decentralised democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e789	I see the Progress Party's desire for binding referendum as a desire to go from representative democracy – a strongly representative democracy – to single-handed democracy. It has many sides attached to it, as well as the principle of law against constitution and municipal law, and it is also a question of who is being heard. What group will have power then? Are they the ones with the most money? Are there those who can run big campaigns to get their things through, and who have big financial muscles, who would be hearing? Are there the weak groups, who don't have these financial muscles, that will be heard? Is it those who can hire communication consultants and big companies to talk about things, that will be heard, or are they not so high-level in society to the everyday life? We as politicians have a responsibility to right everyone, and also to separate what power they can put behind the demands – both financial and otherwise – and then weigh it up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e794	I think the last Council of State takes up here, is quite interesting – who rules democracy? At least there is no doubt that in much of the democracy debate now there are just some of the groups that really have influence, money and opportunity, which are very active to influence in order to make local compromises. My question goes a little further. So, the Council of State says it's important – and she was very concerned about it – that this is good for democracy. But we actually see that there are people who really want to get involved and who are engaged – that is, individuals. Among other things, the Stop Data Storage Directive is a good example of that, and it actually shows that referendum had been very suitable. Doesn't the Council of State see that there should be more of this, and that that kind of case is suitable for having local or national referendums on, not least in terms of tolls, where we know that there is a great deal of commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e799	I'm busy with a living democracy. A living democracy also includes people's voices at both local and national level, and we have a system for what we can have today. I think it's great, and we have a good example that it can vitalize community life. So I'm not against it -- let's just say it in this room. But from then on to going to a binding public display, I think I'm a wrong step, that's the wrong way to go. We should rather rebuild and strengthen the representative democracy we have today, and add even more legitimacy to it. It's up to us who are active politicians to make sure -- not to rush down on a fantastic system that we've managed to build up in Norway, and which we'll be very proud of, and which I experience, out there among people, has legitimacy. I would like a lot of discussion about the Data Storage Directive – fortunately we have it in society today too, there is nothing to stop it – but from going to a binding referendum, I think I am wrong to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e806	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e811	I am pleased that there will be a little more debate than it might seem to be initially on such an important matter, as the Council of State has just stressed that this is. It's a pleasure, isn't it? I have noticed that the case rapporteur first spoke warmly about the ideal and then warmly against introducing a binding referendum. I also notice that the expression 'complicated matters' is used to justify giving people power. It tastes a little bit of skepticism. For the Progress Party, it is important that the empowerment is strengthened and that the political power is actually replaced by the community power. We have no bad system in Norway, but it can actually get better. And we in the Progress Party believe that it can actually be better by having a statutory right, a statutory opportunity, to use binding referendums both in the national parliament – then there needs to be a constitutional change to which we are committed – and also at a lower level, i.e. at municipal level. As for the level, it's actually about a change in the municipal law, and just that, in order to get a warrant for a binding referendum. We have both a general and a special approach to this. One is the general one, which may relate to a number of different, but important issues that we believe the citizens should take a decision on. The second is of course – as we also show in the proposal – related to toll-funded projects. We believe in the Progress Party that requiring binding local referendums to be conducted before, if necessary, promoting projects based on toll financing to the Stortinget must be part of the local initiative that the toll trailers in the Stortinget are so committed to. If you reject this, it's actually an indication that you have a well-developed fear that people can actually think of something. Anxiety for it does not have the Progress Party. On the other hand, we have great respect for most people, and great respect and belief that most people sort out "complicated things", and great faith that people actually want to decide more themselves. We're not afraid of the people, but it might indicate that all the other parties, who don't want this opportunity for the inhabitants, are actually a little bit afraid of what people can think of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e824	It's important that most people can show their commitment. It's important to listen to the people. In many things, it is quite natural to ask the people for advice, such as: in the case of groupings of counties and municipalities. But what is particularly important in a referendum is that when we ask the people for advice, we follow the advice we receive. It's convenient to put a case out for a referendum if you're almost sure in advance what the outcome will be, but in important matters you can't let your personal convictions rule if you vote for or refuse to put a case out for a referendum. On 1 January 1992, my municipality, Øyestad, was merged with Moland, Tromøy and Hisøy and Arendal. This was done after a referendum. The referendum was held in three of the surrounding municipalities. In Øyestad, my municipality, was 94,5 pst. Contrary to aggregation, in Moland was 89 pst. On the other hand, on Tromøy there was 86.1 pst. who voted against. This cannot be called moods, as the Council of State said, but a sun-clear no to aggregation. In old Arendal there was no referendum, for it was those who wanted this merger. There was also no referendum on Hisøy. What happened? Well, at a pen stroke, there was coercion, despite the massive resistance. The result was incomprehensible, and there is still an arrears in the population over this treatment that was subjected to after a referendum. referendums, which are not binding, are thus in favour of supporting the political debate. The politicians ask for advice, but do not choose to follow the advice given by the referendum, as I showed in this example. That is why it is an important matter that we are debating today. We have to trust the people when we ask them for advice. In my opinion, something else is totally unacceptable. We're all "people most," no matter what we work with. Everyone can get involved in the issues that are up to a referendum. If you don't think that people can get involved in the issues that have been promoted to a referendum, as some politicians claim, then I can understand that you don't want binding referendums. But as I just said -- I think and know that people can get involved in things, I know that people care, I know that people like to get involved. And that is why I am in favour of legally binding referendums as part of the Norwegian democratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e840	It's in itself both exciting, important and fundamental aspects of the issues raised by this proposal, and for my part I think it's time to discuss it. There is probably not so much doubt that some of these mechanisms could have been used more. But I agree with the representative Tetzschner when he says that it seems as if it is aggravating toll projects that are behind more than a general commitment to referendums and to local democracy. So I think there's reason to think a little bit about what you want to achieve. At least for my own part, I think it's important to keep your tongue in your mouth when it comes to where the responsibility lies, and what matters are appropriate for this kind of question. Many representatives have been involved in this with financial management, both in relation to this room and in relation to municipal and county halls: it is essential that matters of an economic nature, that not only is possible but also extremely important that the responsibility is placed entirely in a hall, in a forum. If not, it is my opinion that we are undermining representative democracy, and we are also undermining local democracy. I find it exciting to discuss – as much as the Storting demands that there should be referendums – that there should be different mechanisms for initiative-driven referendums, i.e. that if you collect enough information on a particular issue, it is possible to bring the matter up to voting or some kind of treatment. It is not a matter of concern at all in this proposal. However, local democracy is also short-circuited by saying that referendums will be held, even though local authorities do not find that there is any reason to do so. And just to say that: there is no reason that, in Oslo – when Oslo was introduced – a referendum could not have taken place. So it was not interested in the Progress Party. On the contrary – they were in the game and introduced tolls. It is worth noting that in those places where the Progress Party has power, they are equally often involved in carrying out toll projects as elsewhere. Then I noticed that the representative Hoksrud was elected into the central government of the Progress Party, with strong demands for central guidance that the Progress Party – wherever it was – would go against property taxes, and would go against toll projects. It was the big thing, and it obviously got a hearing. But it did not go more than a few days before his own municipality and his own community introduced property taxes. I would say that is in line with good Norwegian tradition and healthy peasant sweat, but not in line with what Hoksrud has preached here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e856	It's such a typical debate technique from the Progress Party that instead of going into some real issues around the proposal they're travelling, it's going to be a label debate. We who have a slightly different view of these considerations are accused of being afraid of the inhabitants and of being arrogant in power. I would like to ask the representative Hoksrud if he can think through at least this evening if you can't see it in a slightly different way. Take, for example: The EU case, where the Progress Party will not take a stand because they say we should leave it to the people. Yes, all parties agree. But you can see it so that when the party seeks a light path out of a matter that is controversial and difficult, and where the people are divided, it can be called disclaimer. Another way to think about it is you have a party that always tries to follow the prevailing direction of the wind. It can be seen as a warring party, rather than taking on the responsibilities that also lie in politics: having a direction and having a point of view and trying to get people to agree to it. So I wish you could think through the dilemma that the vast majority of political choices are balances between different considerations. It's about finding solutions where different and possibly conflicting considerations are balanced against each other, and finding a balance point. The referendum is, by its very nature, divisive. It's engaging, but it's divisive, so it's a little suitable tool to try to find the balance point that's necessary. Fewer and fewer cases are suitable for this type of treatment, whether binding or advisory. Democracy is based on two principles. One is of course that the majority decides. But it is also based on the principle that the minority should be taken into account. It is also an important principle. Vote on minarities in Switzerland, I think, is a good example of how little suitable referendum is. It remains to be seen whether there is a breach of international conventions, but I think at least there is a breach of taking account of minority rights. So there are some things that can be appropriate, for example. whether or not to have a kingdom, EU membership or not. Because there is another principle that is at least important to me if we are to use referendums, and that is that the majority must bear the burden of the outcome. This is why, for example: referendum on property taxes is not appropriate, because it is not the majority who bear the burden of getting less money from municipalities. It's the older people who don't get services, it's the school kids who get too poor education. That is why I do not share Heikki Holmås' enthusiasm for referendums. I think politicians should take the responsibility that the Council of State says they are elected and have asked for trust, namely to make the decisions and meet the voters in elections next time and stand for what they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e871	The issue of binding local referenda was raised, among others: investigated in Ot. pp. No 44 for 2004–2005 following a request decision of the Stortinget on 16 June 2003. Then the majority of the government asked to investigate issues related to local referendums. The investigation was to cover both the fundamental consequences of binding referendums and the impact of a model where a certain number of citizens in a municipality could demand a case for referendums on local democracy. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, at that time, dismissed the right to hold a binding referendum at local level. The reason was that the system that we have with advisory referendums is working properly and provides municipalities with the flexibility they need to implement referendums as needed and as desired. I support this assessment and do not consider it necessary to further regulate the legislation of referendums. The system of right of initiative for citizens in the municipal law has been in force only since 2003, but has been used on several occasions. Therefore, there is reason to believe that this provision covers the needs of citizens to put matters on the agenda or to call for a referendum. It is worth mentioning that the Progress Party also meant this when Ot.prp. No 44 were treated. Toll-funded projects must be anchored in municipal and county decisions before the case is discussed further in the State Road Administration, in the Ministry of Transport and then in the Stortinget. There have been, from time to time, organised referendums in advance of a local policy handling of such cases. It should remain up to local elected bodies to implement referendums, including in cases involving the introduction of toll financing. The Christian People's Party supports the majority in this case, which does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e885	It's no surprise to anyone that both the Labour Party and the Right as such are skeptical of such a kind of proposal, because none of the two parties have any good experience in referendums in Norway. You've both lost, and you've experienced on your body what this means in practice in your own party. Then it's not so strange that you use this chair to say that it can be very'splitting' to have referendums. But isn't it the case that, in respect of local democracy, we should actually listen to and hear what the people out there actually mean? It was referred to California and Switzerland – completely out of control. We don't have to go that far to give examples. We can go to Finnmark, where in 2005 a large majority of the population were trampled on by a Finnish law that has both an ethnic point and a contrast. This will lead to more ethnical peaks in Finnmark in the future, not least when the Commission is to carry out its work on the location of individual and collective property rights after the age of use, where not least the ILO Convention 169, which relates only to indigenous peoples, takes precedence over the Finnish law. It's bloody unfair to people. But do you want a referendum on that? No, you don't want to listen to your own people. You actually think it's more democratic to three this down their heads. When the Progress Party calls for a binding referendum and not an advisory referendum, it is actually in respect of the people, the resolution and the majority and in respect of local democracy. Worse than that, it's not for us. But I feel that it's a lot worse for other parties, who don't want to respect the majority of their own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e894	The President is not going to interfere with the debate, but will just remind you that Norwegian history goes back further than it did in 1972, so that mentioning the two referenda might be a bit unexplained. I would remind you that it has not been long since we debated a draft constitution on the Republic or the monarchy of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e902	I thought it was so exciting when the Progress Party made a proposal to discuss binding referendums, until I saw that it was actually a toll proposal to be dropped into Norwegian law and given both a local and a national envelope. Today’s debate highlights the fact that constitutional and local democratic issues in the Progress Party have been left to the four members of the transport fraction. It says a little about what angle the Progress Party gives this matter. It is my good old colleagues, Mr Hoksrud and Mr Sortevik, with whom I fought for four years in the Transport Committee. And here's the two councils that were involved, too. But this really has nothing to do with a binding referendum and a real debate on it; it is simply a receipt of the promises of Bård Hoksrud and others at the National Assembly of the Progress Party. Then trying to wrap this into something more than it is, I think it is unnecessary. When Fredriksen also draws up the Finnmarks Act, for which I was the case rapporteur, and talks about it being totally undemocratic and had no anchoring – there is no matter what has been dealt with in such a special way as the Finnmarks Act. The Storting took its position, but before the debate, the case rapporteur and representatives of those who made up the majority travelled to Finnmark and received a treatment in the county council, received a treatment in the Sameting and thus placed the emphasis on both the county council and the whole thing's broad support. It was, in fact, a unanimous unification and a large majority in the county for that matter. To come and say that this was totally undemocratic and was trodden down on people's heads, is not in touch. I recommend to the Progress Party, when they're going to go further in constitutional discussions, that they maybe pull someone other than just the transport fraction and try to raise it a little bit more in principle and higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e913	It can be nice sometimes that people who are busy with transport are also concerned with other important things. In fact, referenda is very important for the Progress Party, whether you're sitting in the transport fraction or you're sitting in other fractions. I'm very happy, because I feel that here there was at least one point in the debate, and there was a longer debate than you might initially have thought. I think it's a positive lot of what Ola Borten Moe brought up. It was very interesting there, but this isn't just about tolls. As I said in my main post, there are many other things it can be very reasonable to have a binding referendum on. The Data Storage Directive is a matter that is very hot at the moment, and where there are strong and clear opinions out there in the population. It may definitely be a matter on which a binding referendum could be held, because it would also have other consequences if you chose to say no to the Data Storage Directive. Unfortunately he also made a little mistake in his post, because he said that there was no proposal for a referendum in, among other things. Oslo and other cities. It's actually done. It has been promoted both in Oslo and Bergen and in Askøy at least, and also in many other municipal governments, proposals have been made on themes other than just tolls from representatives of the Progress Party. We have great faith in local democracy, but we also have great faith that the citizens are able to take into account both the whole and the consequences of the elections you make in any referendum. So I think it's a little special to listen to the representative Heikki Holmås. It's always polite. He's very busy with the referendum, but we'll just listen. If we don't like the answer, we vote against it. That is the response of the Socialist Left to this debate and the proposal under consideration. Heikki Holmås challenged what he would do if the people in a referendum were to vote for something that the representative Hoksrud did not agree with. In fact, because there is a binding referendum, the representative of Hoksrud must vote in line with the majority in that referendum. Because when you have a referendum, you have to take the voters seriously and follow what they say to do. In the case of the discussion around e.g. Ulven–Sinsen, who has become much more expensive, I believe that poor project management, poor project work, should not ensure that democracy is not taken care of, and that democracy should not be allowed to decide. I think it's very important. With regard to this, taking over responsibility for important tasks, yes, the Progress Party wants the financial responsibility to be with the State, but of course it is local to make sure that the offer is made. Then you also have the local freedom, and that's what it's all about. Unfortunately, many people do not understand it. So it doesn't depend on the economy of each municipality. You should actually get what you need, whether you live in Finnmark, Telemark or another state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e934	We have had a different debate than the one I had imagined, and I must say that it is absolutely incredible to hear the argument of the Progress Party here today. The similarity between binding referenda and democracy is unhistorical, and the accusations of arrogance and electoral contempt do not belong anywhere. I would like to draw your attention to a comment from the Progress Party in the vote, where they mention that property taxes can be a topical theme for binding referenda. But then they add to ‘until the Progress Party may have obtained a majority in order to repeal the Property Tax Act’. Yes – so deep does the Party of Advancement respect for most people. If they want the same thing as the Progress Party, they will have to decide the question by referendum, but if they think otherwise, the Progress Party will decide here on the Stortinget. The proposals of the Progress Party and the debate here appear to be more a pretext for showing contempt for politicians and attacking minorities, and not least repeat their resistance to tolls than a genuine attempt to raise a debate of principle. That's a shame, because we could spend time here discussing democracy and participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e943	I noticed that neither Jan-Henrik Fredriksen nor Bård Hoksrud went into some of the real issues. They're going on with this label debate. Fredriksen said that the Right Party and the Workers' Party were against referendums, because we had had such bad experiences with it because we had lost two referendums. I have an experience with a referendum – it's the same as Inbjørg Vokskesen has – in terms of municipal association. It's an example of one of the dilemmas that I wish you could at least think through. The municipal authorities of the municipalities of the Fredrikstad district asked for the advice of the people. Like the Arendal district, it was quite a massive no to the community. The decision should be taken here in this room. But who is under the pressure that the Stortinget did not follow the advice given by the local authorities in these areas? Yes, it's the local politicians. I wonder: does the Advancement Party see a pit of a dilemma in this system? Then you have to have respect for the people. Yes, of course you have to have it. But what do you do in a situation of a municipal association between two municipalities where there is yes in one and no in the other, and it's quite even? Who should be respected? You can't possibly satisfy the inhabitants of both municipalities when you want to have an association, and you say no in the other. Is there a glitch of dilemma here? The Progress Party it – or is this just arrogance of power and little will to listen to the people? It is important to engage the people in local policy balances, and it is now done in many different ways – in the preparation of municipal plans, etc. But I believe that people also have to be invited to participate in, and be part of taking responsibility for, the difficult balances – not only say no to tolls, say no to property taxes, say no to a new road, and leave the balances and dilemmas to the local government. Being an active participant in a democracy is not just being allowed to raise your hand, whether it's at the polls or in a referendum. It is also willing to choose which side of the road is to go, which garden owners are to be taken. It is a banal choice, but it must be chosen, and the elections must also be open to the citizens if they are to be part of an active and participatory democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e954	In short: We in the Progress Party are concerned that, under given conditions, with basic legislation and new provisions of the municipal law, we give citizens the opportunity – which they do not have today – to express their opinion through a binding referendum. That's what's in the matter. We record that we have had a broader debate than we could actually hope for. We also record strong unwillingness and strong counter-representations from all other parties in Stortinget against giving the inhabitants more power. We'll record it, but it's a shame. What made me take the floor was the post from the Right Representative Trond Helleland. Perhaps the greatest expression of contempt in this debate is just in that article. In any case, I do not understand why the committee in which the different representatives of the bigots are sitting should limit what to engage in, what to have opinions on as a elected representative in the national assembly – that one should therefore be less valuable if one has opinions on matters other than the matter area of the committee in which one sits. It was obviously the honour of the representative of Greece. At least it's a vision that we don't share. Those who have spoken from the Progress Party here today are proponents. Although the matter, that is, the proposal for a representative – which is correct – has been dealt with in the municipal committee, we believe it is right that it is the proposers who take part in the debate. We believe that we have the same assumptions, at least we have good assumptions, in order to do so, in line with the representatives who sit in the municipal committee, and in line with all the other representatives in the Stortinget. At least that's our vision, obviously it wasn't Right's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e963	Let me first just say to Arne Sortevik that it's hard to understand how he can use the expression to have ‘dain’ for people's opinion, when several of us here in the main hall have raised local referenda in several important issues. Then it's like either he doesn't hear, or he won't hear – just like Aunt Sofie, in a book mentioned earlier in this room. I would also like to point out one more thing to the Progress Party, and that concerns referendums used in the field of property taxes. The Right and Advance Party run Bergen. Last year they cut the 150 million. NOK in property tax. Was it the case that the Right and Advance Party in Bergen called for a referendum on whether to use this money to cut the property tax, or whether to use it for well-being, school and care for the elderly, which Bergen's people desperately need? No, then there was no talk of democracy, then there was no talk of referendum to decide whether the money should be spent on welfare, or whether they should be used to reduce property tax. Then the words of democracy were completely gone. I took the floor first because Bård Hoksrud said something wrong in his post, second because he obviously did not understand a central element of the Progress Party's policy, and thirdly because he did not answer the challenge and the question from me. What was wrong with what he said was that SV did not follow local referendums. That's not right, we're following local referendums. I was very clear that we were doing that. We want to use it as a tool to promote local democracy. The second key point is that Bård Hoksrud obviously has not understood the policy of the Progress Party. I argue that there is less local democracy and more state governance. If one introduces unit-price financing, it is the state that decides how much money will be spent in each area. This means that if the Progress Party controls and wants to deprioritize bets in school, and there is less money per student for schooling in the individual municipality, the Stortinget determines the rate – and local democracy is given less power. If Bård Hoksrud doesn't realize that it means less power to local democracy in the field of schooling, it's very hard to understand that he has understood the party's program. Finally, he did not respond to a central challenge. I said, what about Oslopackack 3, when it gets more expensive? Do you have to vote in favour of raising toll prices? Should a referendum be held on whether to cut the collective effort, or whether to cut some of the crazy road projects contained in this package? Should this be put to a binding referendum, or has Bård Hoksrud thought that the Progress Party and the Right in the City Council of Oslo should decide this for themselves? He must answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e978	There have been some short variations on the theme of ‘binding referendums’. Locally, it is then its case – and probably also unproblematic for this hall. We're a nation state, and by definition, all power lies in this hall. Therefore, the municipal map is clearly also a responsibility attached to this hall. So there's a question of how clever it is. I think the Advance Party and Sortevik are crossing some lines when you say that you should also have binding referendums nationally, given the freedom of action that this House can have. And the good reason for that is the Constitution. The basic law is valuable because it gives us minority rights. Some things we have had a referendum on. The EU case is a good example of surrendering national sovereignty, which requires a 2/3 majority – a minority right. Then it's ownership. Then it's freedom of religion. Then it's freedom of speech. Then it's the state form. Is the Progress Party serious that it should be possible to put forward a proposal to abolish ownership, that 51 pst. by the population will then have the opportunity to adopt such a proposal in a referendum, and that Mr Hoksrud and Mr Sortevik will vote in favour of the proposal here in the Grand Chamber? It's, with respect to report, very stranger. I would recommend the Progress Party at least to think through the fundamental consequences of the proposals they are making, before arguing for them – at least in the way that it is done in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e987	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Let's go to case No. 5, and the president reminds me that today's case list has 15 cases. [[See page 3960]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1005	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1014	After hearing the previous debate, I would like to say that now we are going to discuss something a little bit more ground-based. But it's not, it's actually a pretty high-flying matter we're going to discuss, and it's also very important, namely the air supply to the population of the northernmost part of our country. There is no doubt that it is far north to south in this country. I come even from the north, so I know a lot about distances, about how far it is, and how dependent we are on planes. We don't have trains. We have fast routes, speedboats and buses, but it doesn't last, we need to be able to have an efficient transport solution. We rely on aircraft to carry passengers, to get the mail, for business to have good competitive conditions, and to get to the hospital when we need it. We also rely on a flight offer that has a high regularity and high frequency – and planes that go when they're going. Air fares are also an important question. When you don't have other alternatives, like trains or buses, on long routes, and the plane is the only option, we depend on prices not being unreasonable. On the Committee's trip to North Troms and West Finnmark a few weeks ago, we got a lot of good illustrations on how important a good flight offer is for the population and business in the north. This is precisely why it has been an important point for the government to ensure a good flight offer in Finnmark and Nord-Troms by buying unprofitable flights, ensuring a good flight offer throughout the country. This has been underlined in both Soria Moria statements. In 2007, the government also proposed a sharp reduction in air fares on the routes in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. During the night, the prices were 20 pst. lower, and this was an important handshake to a population living at extremely high flight prices. It's important for people, and it's important for business, and a visible proof that we have a red-green government that means what it says when you're committed to ensuring good communication solutions across the country, and having a policy that ensures a nutritious district. A unanimous position at almost all points in this case shows that there is a total size that underlines the need for a good flight offer in the north. Another aspect raised during that committee's visit was the need for better coordination with the commercial air routes and the so-called FOT routes known as those routes. I would like to illustrate this with a local example from Nord-Troms: On Sørkjosen Flyplats it has now become so that the aircraft that previously left at. 07.45, and which made you take the morning plane to Oslo, now it's late. 08.45. Then you don't reach the morning plane anymore. Then you come down here quite late in the morning. This has led people now to start using the car to get to Tromsø to reach the morning plane south. Of course, it was not the intention to extend the contract and also increase the allocation. It is therefore clear that the ministry’s annual hearings with air carriers must address this issue in order to improve coordination between the FOT routes and the commercial routes. Then the committee is also very concerned about the fact that the tender procedure carried out led to more expensive operations than intended, and that we have to increase the appropriations by 26.7 million. kr. It is not a good development that a private monopoly has now emerged in many ways. The Committee is concerned that we need to obtain more operators and that we need to look at the criteria for the tender. We therefore support and are satisfied that the Ministry has notified an evaluation and a review of the tender criteria with a view to reducing costs in future bidding rounds. I would like to stress that the goal cannot be that it will only be cheaper for the state, but also cheaper for the passengers. Because even though this government has made a big deal, it is still disproportionately expensive to travel from north to south, and perhaps especially within the North Troms and Finnmarks, so this becomes important to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1035	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party has no desire to extend the debate unnecessarily in this matter. In general, we support the proposal as it stands, especially after the government has addressed several of our comments. Nevertheless, when I have asked for the word, it is to clarify some of our comments, our policies and our common challenges in getting the best possible regularity and quality at airports. After all, good regularity is a necessity for good quality. In this way, I would like to refer to a written question from the representative of Sortevik to improve frequency and regularity in general, and in particular to improve competition in aviation. In particular, the Party has taken note of the following part of the reply from the Council of State: ‘Indirectly, improved competition for the tendering routes may result in lower expenditure for the State and thus provide financial room for action for the Ministry of Transport to assess improvements in the transport offer purchased within future budgetary frameworks, for example. through a lower maximum ticket price.’» It is therefore worth noting that the government, through the volume of public purchases, can also affect ticket prices, which is completely in line with our policy. There is a clear link between regularity and quality, and the state can contribute through more public procurement to improving this situation. This can also be done by strengthening the investment side in order to strengthen public infrastructure as part of the North Region Initiative. Another is the tendering period. It is high time to go from investigations into this to active measures that will increase the time perspective for the tendering period and strengthen the competitive factor in the national part of the country, not least to the benefit of the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1049	Only a few brief comments from my side on this matter. I am pleased with the positive attitude of the Transport and Communications Committee on this matter. It is good to have a joint committee, throughout, at most points behind it in an emphasis on the importance of regional air route provision for people and businesses in the District of Norway. So I would like to stress that I have noticed what was said here about the coordination of routes. I will include that in the further work when it comes to routing. When it comes to the competitive situation, I have announced that a longer supply period may have an impact both on competition and, in the next round, on the quality of supply, because we have the overall ability to use the funds in a better way. It is true that the offer of regional scheduled flights on Finnmark and Nord-Troms has been open to all airlines within the EEA territory. But we have only received offers from one airline – the existing operator, Onkøe. But the offer is given in a market with potential competition. Then it is all the more important to look at the possibilities that exist to strengthen that basis. Then I might have expected someone to raise a question by concluding a contract before Stortinget has given its consent. We have signed a contract with us on Stortinget's agreement. I am happy that the contract is now standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1064	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1067	During the Committee's visit to West Finland and Troms, we experienced that Sørkjosen has a major problem of regularity. I also know that Banak in Porsanger in Finnmark has a problem with regularity. The county councils feel completely overrun and are not heard as to their desire for regularity. It's the same thing about the municipalities that are involved and that have airports. Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that the municipalities that have an airport also become a hearing body related to the award of tenders and regularity?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1074	I find it right when such experiences come to me, to take them up further – further on with Onkøe! The agreement has now been concluded and the route programme set out in this round. But I share the opinion that those who are going to use these routes have to be heard. Then it's not certain that everyone can get it the way they want – it has to do with the total frames, and there's a lot to fit together when you're going to sew in a bunch of routes. But I'm going to take with me the call here that they have to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1081	The rapporteur has made a significant contribution to the Committee's opinion on this matter, and a question was raised in advance of mine. When we were on a tour of Finnmark, there was another theme that came up, namely that there was only one offerer, namely Onions. Now, of course, we're very happy with Ontøe, all of us, but it's now that a private monopoly is as bad as a public monopoly. It was told us that it was possibly the navigation system, the approach system, that was the reason why it was only Ontøe who could give bids. My question is: will the Council of State look at that issue, so that there are no provisions in the call that will only be selected?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1088	I want as a policy that the questions that are asked, both when I am travelling, and when the committee is travelling, and the questions I get from the users, we'll look closer. I have noticed two things myself: one is getting the papers out earlier, and the other is longer supply periods. But I'm also going to bring this with me that the representative Myraune here mentions. I believe he has much more technical insight than the Council of State, but I will make sure to check this out more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1095	The Christian People's Party also joins in what the case-speaker brought up here. One of the things the representative Bjørnflaten took up was better coordination between the commercial routes and the routes where we have government purchases. It was also with pleasure that I noticed that the council said this had her branded and wanted to take it with her. My challenge is whether it might be an idea to get a user organ, because there are changes here, for example. on the commercial routes which also mean that the routes purchased by the State may be less for users. Could it be an idea to get a user body, so that we entered into closer dialogue on precisely the challenges that the Committee has highlighted on its journey?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1103	Let me underline one more time: it is important when the government buys a route offer, that we use the funds in the best way for the users. And then there's a question about letting the municipalities be hearing authorities, and there's a couple of tips for improvement. If a user organ can be active, I will not sign it out here or now. We have to remember that these are very wide distances and slightly different interests in terms of how they are to be coordinated. But I'm also going to take this tip with me and review it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1110	I also have a follow-up on the inspection tour in Troms and Finnmark. The price level of the tickets is of concern. A direct question: will the Council consider increasing public purchases? It's one tool that can bring prices down. The second is that not only the grid, but also the airport network, there are concerns. There are several airports that need improvements and upgrades – in fact, there is also talk of moving and establishing new ones. And then the question is, is it being opened up within the Avinor system today so that from regional and local level you can go into the owner's side, the financing side, to raise, advance and support improvements of that type of airport network itself, or will the Council of State, if she does not answer yes, see if it can be opened up to such regional involvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1119	This replication in a matter where few initially had the word, has been a great effort to improve both the offer and perhaps the airport network itself. I thank you for the good contributions that have come. The government has already reduced prices just in Nord-Troms and in Finnmark, but it's clear that we can say that they're still at a high level. I can't stand here and promise lower prices. I just have to remind you that now, mid-year, there are 27 new million for a new bidding period as well as what is already in existence. But I'm also going to take with me the views that Sortevik brings here, and then I get to come back to Stortinget – in turn and in order – with a closer assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3960]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1142	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1151	The mountains and the West have extensive value-creating activities. Traffic in Western urban areas has increased by about 30 pst. in the last 10 years. There is a high level of activity, especially in relation to the oil industry, which is the main driving force behind this growth in traffic. The mountain range also attracts a lot of people, and the forecasts suggest that the population will grow a lot in the mountainous region in the coming years. As a whole, traffic will also grow. In this situation, it is crucial that the infrastructure is developed, and then in such a way that it becomes attractive for people to choose the most environmentally friendly way of travel and travel. The Bergen programme includes projects that will contribute to better emergence, lower climate emissions, reduced local pollution and noise, and reduced car traffic and increased prosperity in the centre. The Bergen programme has four main parts: other construction steps of the city railway involve a lengthening of the line in the south at 3.6 km from Nesttun to Lagoon. Other construction steps on Ringveg west involve a new four-field road south from Sandeide and Liavatnet with associated ramps, crossings and collective terminal. Programme area measures amount to 154 million. Every year, for bicycle paths and for pedestrians, measures which would be more conducive to public transport, environmental measures at the centre and road safety measures. The Skansen tunnel shall run in two fields between the centre and the area north of Bryggen, and shall relieve Bryggen and Bilge Square. An extension of the Bergen programme now makes it possible to continue the work with Ringveg west and Bergensbanen – not Bergensbanen, but the City Railway – without delay and with good progress, and it will significantly increase the benefits of the investments already made in the first construction steps. In addition, the program contains a number of other projects that can meet the transport challenges in the area. The application for the toll is made by decision of the Bergen City Council and the Hordaland County Council. Decisions also contain a clear priority of 200 million. kr annually from the county road frame of the programme. The mountains face major challenges in urban traffic and environmental and health problems resulting from road traffic emissions. These problems appeared especially now in the last winter. The municipality of Bergen, as the responsible governing authority, implements a number of measures to improve air quality in the short term. The situation also showed that municipalities need to have even better access to both long-term and short-term tools in this work. Here, the government's work on facilitating the creation of low-emission zones and the use of road pricing and road pricing will be important contributions. In the proposal, the government, in line with local policy decisions, is leading to a development of the transport system in which the provision of collective services and the organisation of cyclists and cyclists is central. The mountains have also recently adopted an ambitious cycle strategy aimed at increasing the bicycle part of the transport to at least 10 pst. and complete the main road network for bicycles by 2019. Therefore, if costs or revenues change, these measures must also be screened to the greatest extent possible. The City Railway is a forward-looking project. On 25 May 2009, Bergen City Council decided that the municipality would develop a concrete plan for the continuation of a holistic collective service with the City Railway as its backbone. Here, the mountains see an offensive hold and a large-scale bet on the city course. This is a stake that is important for Bergen and for the region. In addition, this effort is in the process of influencing the debate on transport in other cities as well as at national level. There is a broad political consensus that the urban areas that combine bet on public transport with the means of reducing car traffic and climate change emissions should be given priority when awarding rewards. Purchase pricing or differentiated prices in the bombing rings can be a useful tool to strengthen public transport and, if local and regional support is provided, can become an important contribution to the further development of the Urban Railway. I have now done some good for the main features of the committee majority, a plural that at all points consists of the government party and the Christian People's Party, but where the right is also behind large parts. I assume that the various parties themselves will do their utmost to improve their vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1182	I'll explain to you the point of view of the Advance Party. It might be tempting to begin by remembering that the city railway crashed before it opened, but I will leave it lying. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter – in short: state funding of the road actions. Seemingly, this is another toll package in one of Norway’s four largest cities. In Bergen we've had tolls for a long time. It was the Right who introduced tolls in Bergen in 1986 and promised a period and then never again. Since then we've had it. Toll financing is an additional transport tax. It is the Stortinge that adopts extra tax recorded locally, as the great majority of the Stortinge, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, do today. They're going to do it again many, many times in this period. The Progress Party will have State funding for road and rail construction. The Progress Party will have State funding to build decent transport networks in the major cities. We want a big-city package and a collective effort in the biggest cities to solve transport needs. I refer to our proposal in connection with NTP 2010-2019. I refer in particular to proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, in this case, where we are asking for a strengthening of the collective offer in Bergen and the mountain region without requiring the introduction of a rush-time charge or other traffic regulation measures. This case again shows how incredibly expensive it is with toll financing. Overall, the expansion of the Bergen programme is 6,8 billion. kr. Cars, businesses and individuals must contribute approximately. 3.5 B.C.E. kr. They shall also pay the collection costs and operating costs of the toll company of more than 600 million. kr and the interest on the building loan of $1850 million. kr. This total is going to be 6 billion. DKK in tolls in order to contribute €3.5 billion. kr to the total investment package. It's messed up. So the billing and collection costs are almost 2.5 billion. kr. We remember that the Bergen programme is a programme for transport, urban development and the environment. The Progress Party believes that the extension of the Bergen programme is now much clearer than an urban development programme and an environmental programme. We think it's flying under a false flag. The term ‘tolls’ is deliberately used to give the impression that it is to be paid for more and for better roads. Instead, two thirds of the money goes to something other than the way. 35 pst. go to the so-called programme areas: planning, collective actions, road safety measures, pedestrian and cycle road measures, environmental and centre actions. Almost $2.50. kr shall be used for these purposes, which the Government Parties would like to protect. I'm also adding that over 2 billion. kr is used for the urban runway. The Progress Party believes that the Bergen programme also does not solve the task of public transport, which according to the objectives of the programme is – and I quote: ‘establishment of competitive public transport services with higher capacity and capacity reserves than in current bus services’.» The city track, where the first stage is now to be opened, is a hopeful future with the speed of the past. The city track will take 2 minutes more on the trip between the Bergen Centre and Nesttun in 2010 than the railway used in 1924. In foreign cities that are not comparable to Bergen but are still comparable with the urban railway trailers, developments in light rail solutions, quasi-rail, are moving towards few stops and high speed. The city railway in Bergen has low speed and many stops. The city track appears to be a transport experiment based on the drivers' money. Evaluation is rejected; it should only be further built, cost what it costs, for the car drivers' money and at the expense of road construction in the county. - I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1209	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1212	The representative of Sortevik starts his post by harping on the city track and the small accident we had during the test drive recently. I think I'll wake up to the claim that the savings we get in road traffic in terms of damage, accidents, etc. Because now we're getting just a city track, will compensate many, many times the little accident we had with a pen during the test drive. This is a new funding plan – or a supplementary funding plan – for the Bergen programme, which we adopted in this Chamber in 2006, which we are discussing today. I would like to thank the people of Bergen and also forward-looking politicians who are able to think visionarily and get a big hold on improving the urban environment and getting a modern communication structure in Norway's second largest city. I do not join those who have expressed in the media that we who are sitting here should be thanked. No, in this case, the opposite. 70 pst. the cost of financing is paid by the users. We must have great respect for that. These are the two main elements, the City Railway and the Ringweg West, to which the case-in-law's rapporteur excellently explained, which lies in the matter. In addition, the Skansen tunnel lies in the case, which is of course an urban development project, as Sortevik said, where you can open the city to the sea and get traffic away from the street level. It does not seem that there is money for it in this round either, even if it is in the plans. We're sorry about that in the Right. We think it would have been a very reasonable project to get in place for the city. Programme areas are also included in the package. These include smaller measures such as walking and cycling roads, environmental measures and a wide range of planning means. So far, everything's fine. But then the government parties blend the reward scheme into a funding package for these measures in Bergen, with 70 pst. self-financing and with powerful measures to improve the urban environment and reduce car traffic. Yes, it's actually in the government's own proposition: ‘The city is an important part of a forward-looking and environmentally friendly strategy for a better transport system [[...]] That's what I think I'm good at. It is almost impossible to achieve a more powerful measure to reduce car traffic. At least I think you should look for it for a long time. If it was ever the reward scheme that could really come to justice, it was when one realized a city track. To the right, it is completely illogical to turn this over to the point of introducing a road pricing scheme to get money to realize the Urban Railway. It brings me to the last point that I thought I'd say a little about, and that's road pricing, which is a completely different piece of legislation. It is linked to the Road Traffic Act and has a completely different purpose, namely to limit traffic. It was also stated, when the Act was promoted in 2001, that road pricing and toll financing could not be used simultaneously in the same area. Today we are adopting a toll scheme until 2025. It is a step forward before it can be replaced by a road pricing scheme. There are also a number of other things in the system that make this uncoordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1236	I would like to thank the case spokesman for a good job, not least by trying to create a width in the run-up to the policy that Stortinget wants to apply to this important area. It's a shame for Sortevik that Bergen now gets a new attraction, a city track that's going to go there and that's going to annoy Blackevik, safe night and day, as much as he's been trying to get Bergen to avoid investing in this new 'wonder', which I'll call it, and which most people in Bergen now want. Here, the Storting is completely in line with most people, and the people most of the party The Progress Party is on its own course – out of course, it is. On June 22 it is a great day; the city railway opens. We continue with other construction steps here today, but I have to say that I am a little jealous. I'm from the Stavanger region. SV proposed a city track there in 1993. We've got the Stortinget to grant $6 million. kr for the planning of the urban railway. I mean cities in Norway should be where Bergen is now when it applies to the city railway, and preferably longer. But we must note that other cities, including my own, do not follow the swings. So I see – and it's a little funny, I think – that the Right Party and the Advance Party spend a lot of time saying that this year it's been an exceptional year, an extraordinary event, given the winter that has been. Yes, it has enough, but when it comes to the climate problem and greenhouse gas emissions, there is no doubt that we will get more of this. The party of progress denies that there is a problem, and that one of them is trying to get away from what happened in Bergen in winter, I must say it's amazing. But that Halleraker and Right are in on it, I guess that's what surprises me the most. There is no doubt that car traffic is creating health problems. No one can deny it. The more car traffic, the more health problems — and more accidents. There's no doubt that one must have that item with us when we're going to put in a city path. So I thought it was especially when the Right now is on the glide away from the climate agreement. There is no doubt about what the climate agreement, which Right and Halleraker have signed, says when it concerns transport. There's a number of points on the transport. It is clear that transport is linked to different measures. If you don't see the City Railway in a reward scheme or a once- and-a-bike strategy, you have to be on earth. There is no doubt that when a person is given an urban runway, and when a driving force with urban development, as the representative himself said, the totality is important. That Halleraker then tries to run away from the responsibility he has today, and does not agree with what he has been involved in the climate agreement, I think I am strange. It's actually the way the Right and the Advance Party are now the two parties that are countering what the NHO wants. The NHO says that they can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while seeing that goods transport benefits greatly if some passenger car traffic is removed. The representative Halleraker knows very well what she is in Stockholm. 23 pst. of passenger car traffic disappeared. So he's going to use half his post to tell us why there's not going to be anything about coping here. The other parties on the climate deal say this is important when it comes to a total strategy for the city of Bergen. I don't understand the right doesn't understand this. But it could be related to a very specific town councillor, who might be right on the Stortinget let himself be led by. There is no doubt that the environmental movement, business, truck owners and other groups now want cities with a rush-time charge to reduce traffic, bring down pollution and thus improve the health situation of those who have to stay in traffic. That right now has shifted side in this case, is strange. If I had run in Bergen – I don't – I would have asked myself: if you have a lot of parking spaces down in the city and lots of parking spaces, will many cars come to the city? – They should think about and limit the number of parking spaces inside the centre of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1255	This is a great case for Bergen and the West. There is great value creation, which the rapporteur has presented in a very good way, and it is growth and development – and it is going to be in the future. It's a happy day because an extension of the Bergen programme with the implementation of the second stage of the Urban and Ringvei West will make you take advantage of the investments already made, in a very good way. An extension of the Bergen programme facilitates the further development of a more environmentally friendly, efficient transport system, with a focus on good collective provision and improved conditions for pedestrians and cyclists. I perceive that there is a great deal of political consensus in Bergen that car traffic needs to be reduced in order to ensure a better environment. I don't think anyone wants such a winter to, like the last winter. But I'm recording that maybe the methods to reduce car traffic are different. There is also a great deal of consensus in this case that it must be attractive to choose the most environmentally friendly ways to travel. The mountain program just contains this. It shall improve the availability, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reduce local pollution, reduce noise and reduce car traffic and, with it, will create centre-level well-being. The centre party believes it is absolutely right to demand that motor vehicle traffic be reduced when long-term agreements on reward schemes are concluded. I hope that Bergen and Hordaland will use it in their work on this matter further. I think that would be absolutely right and absolutely necessary. I want to end by congratulating Bergen once more. I am delighted to travel to the city and take the City Railway. It deserves the mountains, and it deserves the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1268	It is quite right, as the representative Sortevik says, that Bergen introduced tolls in 1986. The mountains were first out in Norway, but actually also in the Wedsamanheng passed the Bergen lead. It was that time only Singapore had tolls. As the representative Sortevik here says: Bergen was first out, and the world has actually seen Bergen in this area. There's an area where they've gone before. I also have to point out that it wasn't just the Right that was involved. The Christian People's Party also took part in this decision, which made Bergen a town that went before, who was willing to bet, who was willing to think new, and who was first out. I also feel that the same symbol is the Bergen program, which we are now going to adopt a new extension of. The first time a decision was taken in the Bergen programme was 17 September 2003, and there was a new round in the Stortinget in 2006. But what I think is worrying is that every round of the Bergen programme, the state part has gone down. This emerged, among other things: by the representative, Mr Halleraker, made his statement. It's worrying, I think, that we want an expansion of the City Railway, because it'll be demanding with the state part we have today. If we are to have an extension of the Urban Railway that goes to Flesland, to Åsane, to Haukeland, to the Filling Valley, we need even more state resources. But the City Railway is a progress project. Some of the things I want to point to that is very exciting about the Urban Railway, is that this also leads to a coordinated policy when it comes to transport and land. We now see that the municipality of Bergen and the town of Bergen are in full swing with denseness along the urban path. It is dense with both housing and commercial property, and thus the city railway actually helps to give new land to Bergen city. It's good environmental policy, and it's good land use. The paradox is that Bergen as a city should not eze too much out. Then it becomes more difficult, both in a collective perspective and in view of Bergen as a good bike town. So June 22 is an important day. Then we'll have to open up the city track. It will probably be almost the evening of the ladies in Bergen, with Queen Sonja who opens, with Minister of Transport Meltveit Kleppa, with Mayor Meland and with County Spokesman Selsvold Nyborg. However, I would like to mention another woman, and it is City Councillor Lisbeth Iversen, whom Bergen's Official Journal has described as a godmother of the City Railway. I just have to – and I want to do it from this pulpit – give her a great deal of thanks for her efforts, just to get into place the Urban Railway. He's important. He'll be important to get a new trend in the car traffic development we've seen in Bergen. We must all say that those developments have not been positive. In the last 30 years, car traffic in Bergen has increased too much in relation to collective investment. That's why it's so important to get the city track in place. The air problem in winter has been an example of this. I will give tribute to the City Council which took action in the situation that then came up. We have also commented on the climate agreement. Yes, the Christian People's Party is in favour of restrictive measures. We've been pointing at several of them. It's for parking, it's for zones, it's for rush time, and it's for tolls. But as is also said in the climate agreement, this should be decided locally. It's important. Finally, I have to be allowed to point to a small paradox, not only in relation to the Bergen programme, but also in relation to Oslopakt 3 and in relation to Trondheim. This is because we want to reduce car traffic. The paradox is that it contributes to creating challenges when it relates to the financing of the parts that we adopt today. In the end, I also want to thank the case spokesperson for a good job. He has created a broad alliance and has been involved in this both the government party, the right party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1285	As many have said here, the Urban Railway is an important part of a future-oriented and environmentally friendly strategy for a better transport system in Bergen. The mountain area is an area that attracts a lot of people and competence. The mountains and the West have a vast value creation. The Committee on Transport and the rapporteur on the subject points out that traffic in urban areas in the West has increased by about 30 p.m. in the last 10 years, and that economic activity is the driving force behind much of this traffic growth. The left believes that the Urban Railway in the mountain area is a good measure to slow down the growth of car use and increase the share of public transport. The city railway in Bergen was adopted when Left was in position in Bergen, and when Torild Skogsholm from Left was Minister of Transport in Bondevik II. The urban railway project is a good project with which it has been working for several years. This will slow down traffic growth, and the Bergen Centre will be protected from unwanted traffic pressure. This further results in reduced environmental impact and fewer accidents. Bergen has shown a good and strong local willingness both to invest more in public transport and to impose restrictive measures against car use. The left has made proposals locally in Bergen that the city should contribute to the further financing of the Urban Railway to Flesland and to the other urban areas. Upon completion of the construction process, increased means of reward should be provided for the collective effort in Bergen. The left will strengthen the reward system. The left will also extend the scheme to include planning and investment in urban railways, such as this one in Bergen. If the reward scheme is increased, as the Left wishes and has entered into its budgets, Bergen could have at least 250 million. kr more per year, against today's 40 million. kr. Following Mr Langeland's speech today, I expect him to support the Left's proposal – in case No. 13th@item: inlistbox I'm glad. Finally, it is gratifying that the Committee, in its recommendation, is in favour of extending the Urban Railway from Nesttun to Lagoon, so that construction can begin immediately. The left, however, sees that if the reward scheme had been strengthened in line with Left's policy, this could lead to a faster expansion than what we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1305	There is real reason to congratulate both the Hordaland County Municipality and the Bergen Municipality with good interaction and with the future-oriented solutions. We have given this matter a high priority in the Department and have done what we have been able to do to ensure that progress is made to enable the Committee to deal with this matter in our own time. That's what the committee did. As we have seen, we all have in every way involved that the county council and the municipality of Bergen could experience related development. The mountainous region is facing significant growth in population and traffic for years to come. The main challenge is to manage growth through a adaptive, efficient and environmentally friendly transport system. The revised Bergen programme facilitates the further development of a transport system where both the Urban Railway, the Ringweg West and the provision of pedestrians and cyclists are important elements. The municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland have entered in order for the second stage of both projects to be completed as soon as possible. This is to make the most of the investments that have already been made in the first stage of the Urban and Ringveg West stages. They've gone far. The municipality and the county have funded preparatory work both in 2009 and 2010 through increased borrowings, savings and re-priorities within the Bergen programme – all to get the works started quickly. The size has previously been granted permission to increase borrowings to finance the necessary planning, design and land use. There are no government projects in the Bergen application anymore. After the administrative reform, the County Municipality is responsible for the Bergen programme, including the construction and operation of the Urban Railway. In the proposition, it is well known how any increase in the cost of the Urban Railway and the Ringway West should be managed. With the support of good governance of the Bergen programme economy, this gives great flexibility in my opinion. The preparations for the second stage of the Ringveg West and the Urban Railway have also come so far in terms of design and external quality assurance that there should be no basis for major surprises. The borrowing is large and the interest income is uncertain. It is therefore a premise that good governance and reporting procedures are established in the Bergen programme. I'm going to initiate a dialogue with the municipality of Bergen and with the municipality of Hordaland about this. Reducing the maximum discounts has been considered locally. I am in favour of such a change that will provide a better economy in the programme. The tariffs have also not been changed for several years. This is a matter that has a broad number behind it in the committee. I think we should have more opportunities to contribute to discussions and follow-up in order to improve the appearance, well-being and air quality in Bergen. This winter has given us an important reminder. There are many other events that have underlined how crucial it is to commit to reducing climate change. There is already a discussion in Hordaland about restrictive measures against car traffic. The last thing I have registered is that the county council should have a matter of pricing/time differentiation. This is an important theme that we both in the government and in the Storting have the opportunity to follow up. We've laid a foundation in this proposition and made some statements. For me, it is quite obvious that such measures must, in line with the guidelines laid down, be evaluated in the context of the reward scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1327	Let me take one thing in this program, namely the continuation of the Urban Railway, which can be said a lot about. But I have a question in the line. That's the way we're giving green light to go on with a new stage. So you do that before the first stage is opened, before you get a start and an opportunity to evaluate the use of the new 2 billion. kr before you see the effect of the 2 billion. kr you have entered in the first stage. Where is the quality assurance? Where's the state's concern about what you spend $2 billion? kr is a good measure, before you know anything about the impact of the use of the first 2 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? I would like to remind you that the City Ship Tunnel has now been sent out to a new investigation for the seventeenth time. The submarine we debated here in Stortinget a week ago should also be re-examined, and one should re-examine. The professional advice on the Urban Railway was negative. Why be so eager to use the car drivers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1334	I thought it was so good that the Urban Railway in Bergen was started on 22 June. I'm very fond of the local and regional commitment that has been to get it done. Then the projects in this proposition are locally initiated, and they should be followed up locally and regionally. It's the county council here that has it overseen responsibility. They have come so far with the preconstructions here, both in the case of the West Ring Road and the City Railway, with the design and external quality assurance that there is no basis for the big surprises. But there is a great need to keep progressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1341	It is very good that the Council of State is now rejoicing over the Urban Railway and that it is being extended. She boasts of both the city's politicians and state politicians that they have got this done – and I agree with that. Then is my simple question to the Council of State: is it not in itself worth a reward in the form of the reward scheme's means, when really taking such heavy measures as building rail-going, improved collective measures to reduce passenger car traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1348	I believe that the Halleraker representative is well aware of the first climate agreement, of which he and his party are a part, and the second is the guidelines that lie here when it relates to the use of the reward scheme. The reward scheme is intended to be used to reduce car traffic and strengthen collective provision – I could have mentioned this in the opposite order – but it is therefore a commitment to be able to participate in the reward scheme that one is willing to introduce restrictive measures against car traffic. I mean, with the debates going on in Bergen and Hordaland, there would be great possibilities ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1353	I notice what the council says she wants a good dialogue with Hordaland County and Bergen Municipality. The Council of State has otherwise been given the honour of having had a good dialogue in the course of these processes. We know how successful the reward schemes for public transport – introduced under the Bondevik II regime – have been. In that context, there is a letter that I have sent with a copy, which has gone to Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. It is from the municipality of Bergen, where they launch a reward scheme for bicycles. I understand that this is not something that the Council of State can decide on here directly, but can I ask an open question: Does the Council of State seem exciting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1360	Let me first highlight the happy experiences that have been done so far with the reward scheme, including – if I should say so – the modest amount, but nevertheless a start, which the Bondevik government has taken on, to the scheme that today amounts to 330 million. kr, which could be much greater with the ambitions of the city councils now and with the local debates and the commitment that this scheme has initiated. So for bicycles: in the national transport plan, there is a specific bike strategy. He did not allow me to spend so much time on him for natural reasons, but I thought it was an exciting idea that the representative Hareide, the leader of the committee, took up here. For my part, for the first time in my life, I'm going to evaluate putting a reward scheme for bicycles into the second reward scheme, i.e., that commitment to bicycles becomes a criterion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1367	It's nice to see the Council of State looking forward to the City Railway. I'm afraid the joy may be short-lived, but it will show time. I think it's a little special that the Council of State in answer to Arne Sortevik pushed this on and said this was the responsibility of the regional and local authorities. I don't want to get rid of it so easily, because when you start projects from the state, you're very clear that it's going to be proper quality control and review of the projects and thorough evaluations before you start. But here you just start right without having the same quality control. I also want to ask if the Council of State doesn't think it's a little strange that you should spend 1.8 billion. kr, which has not yet been decided on how to dispose of it. After all, it's all the drivers that are going to pay this bill of 1.8 billion. NOK without knowing where the money should actually go. Will the Council of State ensure that the drivers also enjoy the money they then pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1374	I was early in the hall today. I was present at a debate where the Progress Party was very eager to stress that one would listen to people locally. I would recommend the Progress Party to read both the proposition and the setting carefully and to engage in the local involvement of those who represent the people, who are elected by the people, both in the city council and in the county council – the commitment there is to get good solutions. To be honest, I did not think the Progress Party should discuss the preliminary work done here, which concerns both design and external quality assurance, rather the fact that this is a municipal responsibility, and in cooperation with the municipality of Bergen I am confident that they will facilitate good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1379	The reward scheme has been the topic here several times today. I would like to hear how the Council of State assesses the amount of alcohol paid against other car-reduction measures. Rushtime charge is good in the period that it is rush time, but it is a large part of the day when you do not pay anything. So how does she evaluate it against other measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1387	I share the pleasure of the Left over the debates that are now local in many urban areas – the debates that are, and the commitment that are for different car traffic regulation measures. So I believe that if the rush time charge fits well in Stockholm, it is not certain that it can be transferred on any other urban area. There is no doubt that both Stockholm, London and other cities have good experience. What is my task now is to provide government and Storting with various local tools, so that a local person can evaluate which one is best suited there. That's what we've said very clearly from the government in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1392	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1397	Let me remind you that the Bergen program has three main fields. One is road measures, the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel. Let me remind you that the Progress Party wants to implement and build those projects as quickly as possible with full state funding. The second is the City Railway, I'll come back to that a little bit. The third is the programme areas. As regards the programme areas, the Progress Party considers that it does not belong in a toll package. We believe that it must be financed through ordinary budgets, both for the municipalities concerned, for the region and for the county. The city track is a transport experiment. There is reason to remind you that these investigations by professional teams, among other things. from the Transport Economic Institute, which has been in place for a long time and from the start of the treatment of this programme back to the municipality of Bergen many years ago, warned of the lack of effect and warned against the fact that the increase in the transition to the use of collectives is not expected. But what you'll get is a transition from bus usage to railway use. There's reason to remember that the trail you're going to open with a pump and adorable in two weeks goes beyond the county's largest workplace, Haukeland University Hospital. It emphasizes, in addition to low speed, that this is an old-fashioned solution and a little less effective solution. The mountains have major transport challenges. We need a decent road network. We have a lot of transit traffic, which now has to pay for a number of environmental measures in Bergen, without them enjoying it. We have large and growing traffic between the urban areas, and there it is precisely so that neither the first stage of the Urban Railway, the second stage or the third stage can in any way respond to the need for transport that is in increasing transport between the urban areas. However, there is reason to congratulate the government parties that they are still able to get enough of the voters to believe that tolls and road pricing are actually necessary. Because it's not! The nation of Norway has a state fund that still runs out of money, which can of course be invested in new roads and new railways — with state resources and without a single toll crown. That is precisely the alternative of the Advance Party – railway crowns to the City Railway. We want another rail-based solution in Norway's second largest city. We want a completely different railway effort from this railway-smooth government that is not interested in railway development in Bergen, unfortunately. We want a completely different focus on railway development and development in Bergen, both as part of local trains and also to provide good transport hubs, rail to Flesland and rail to new berths.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1410	I think perhaps the Council of State was not present – at least not the very first part of the debate – because then probably the Council of State had also got what is my mind about this with democracy, and how important it is with referendums, which should also have been held here. Then it could have been that the outcome had actually been a little different. However, I record that the Council of State is really simply indebted to local politicians and allows local politicians to take full responsibility for this project. I think it's a little special. It's nice to hear the speakers who have been here, at least from the parties that have wholeheartedly supported the Urban Railway and all these so-called good actions. So the point is that you have to make sure that it's completely different from those that actually have to use a lot of these measures to pay the bill. But I record that this is something you think is right. We know that we had a case in ESA in the previous period, which, after finding out that you had a bit of a bad case, you did over and made sure that it wasn't problematic to let others pay for something they wouldn't be happy about. That Halleraker is satisfied that we're going to spend 2.1 billion. kr to the City Railway, which goes two minutes later than the train did in 1924, gets so far to be Halleraker's thing. I think it's throwing 2.1 billion. kr out of the window when you know that the result is that it should go later than it did in 1924. I also think it's a little special that this is such an eagerness to just run, start, despite the fact that you're now about to open the first part, and it cost 2 billion. kr. Before you burn another 2 billion. kr, it might be good to figure out what the result of the two billion you've already spent on the city track has meant. Then it is also nice that someone – what to say – is coming to tell you that they were also there in 1986. The representative Hareide was very concerned to find out that the Christian People's Party was at that time in 1986 and made sure that Bergen became a toll town, and that was what he thought was good. I don't think it was good, and I think there are many other things that you should come to Norway and see and learn from, rather than this with tolls and toll financing. I still think that one of the worst things, as I see this proposition, is that you have to take 1.8 billion. kr from the driver's wallet - dig them out of your wallet. So it's almost 2.5 billion. kr to be taken from the drivers. But, uh, $1.8 billion. For the time being, you do not know what you intend to use for. It also means that they are likely to be used for measures that are completely different from those that are important for the driving lists. I think that's the limit to something I don't like at least, but I understand that saying it from this pulpit is not supposed to do, but you can imagine that this is a robbery from the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1425	The President has doubts as to whether it is parliamentary – as the representative also understood, the President understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1428	This is a matter that has created a lot of local commitment as well. I have been involved in treating it in the city council in Bergen, and I know that there is a lot of temperature when this comes up. Some have congratulated the people of Bergen and Bergen on this. When I hear that, I'm thinking a little bit of an English diplomat, Edmund Burke, one of the Right's ideological ancestors, who after the French revolution got a letter from one of his friends and was asked if he wouldn't congratulate them on the revolution. He wisely wrote back that he would not, for he would wait and see how this developed, whether it was actually something to congratulate for, and whether it was a good thing they had received. In that situation it turned out that it was wise black, and I think it will be in connection with this case as well. The council was about listening to the people, that you have to listen to people locally, listen to what people actually want. Well, when this was under trial in Bergen, a large majority of polls were against this project. It's kind of strange, because in the presentation here, it sounds like it was almost a gift to Bergen's people to get the City Railway, but it's actually a gift that people have been against – at least during the process. It's almost like giving a Christmas present and congratulating the gift, and then adding a giro for payment of the gift afterwards. It's a little bit of the same thing that happens here. You give a gift that people themselves have to pay, and to congratulate on it is almost paradoxical in itself. I would also say that we proposed a referendum on this in Bergen and were voted down by all the other parties. We wanted the people to be there and decide that it should be listened to by the people, but we were therefore dismayed. You wouldn't. You would run this project, no matter what people actually thought about it. With regard to this with a further investigation for further investigation, I find it strange that there are no greater requirements for assessment and investigation now. We had a lot of demands for it in the first phase. There are also some questions raised in these external investigations. First of all, the part that you've built up is the one that's going to start now, the most populous area. If it doesn't pay off there, it can be guaranteed that it won't pay off in the other areas you now want to expand the path to. The other thing is, as Sortevik had said, some of these reports show that there is a risk that much of the traffic is shifted from bus to train, not from car to track. There are also independent experts who have expressed it. If that happens, it doesn't help anything either for the air climate or for any of these other things that you've been talking about – you spend billions on a project that you don't know about has an environmental impact. The last point I want to make is funding. Now you've invested at a low interest rate of 4.75 pst. These expert assessments say that it can be 6,5 pst. and up to 8 pst. It means quite considerable extra funds if interest rates increase. My question to the Council of State is, if that happens, what is the solution? Well, there's two things, increased tolls again, or cutting out some of these other projects that have bikes and the environment, the urban environment, etc. to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1445	It was the representative of Langeland who made me draw again, just to get the opportunity to tell you that the Right is not at all drifting in the climate agreement, rather on the contrary. We are very impatient with what this government does on the climate front. It's not more than a couple of days since we had the Mongstad case here, where we seem to have a crash landing on one of the most important things. In the last period, if it wasn't the period before, the representative Langeland and I had a discussion about renewable energy, where Langeland said that if only SV came into government position, one would be able to get 20 TWh renewable energy in place by 2010. That, I think, is a piece from the world of reality, too. But what's a little strange here is that you're so one-eyed and you saw the one-track of one single action, that's road pricing and cow pricing. And then Langeland – and it's a little snarling – takes NHO into its argument. I can add Hegnar, the well-known self-defined capitalist, who says that he thinks this is a great idea, because then he'll be alone on the road. He would prefer to set the rate at NOK 200. This is, in fact, to introduce a tax on car users, which is not to be applied to the measures taken by the current tolling system. It says in the bill that I remember, which was promoted by the Stoltenberg I government. I think maybe that's what provoked Langeland so strongly, so that we got the violent commitment from his side. When I say this has nothing to do with the reward scheme, it's because what refers to car reduction measures. There's not a word about road pricing or cow pricing. I want to spend the last few seconds on a question to the Council of State. The Council of State and I very much agree that there are two main measures in this package, namely the City Railway and the Ringweg west. But then there is a small note in the setting, which says that the application areas should be protected as much as possible if there are exceedances. Now there's almost no cut list left, I'm familiar with it. So if you're going to follow this 100 pst, you're going to have to postpone or delay the City Railway or the Ringweg west to give priority to the programme areas first. Is that correctly understood? Do the Councils agree to this? It's not in her proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1456	I think this is a happy day. The staging shall adopt the extension and funding of the Bergen programme, and we shall have an extension of the Urban Railway from Nestun to Lagoon. I've had the pleasure of following the mountain policy before I entered the Stortinget. There is now a multiple to expand the Urban Railway to all parts of the city. I've also had the pleasure of following mountain traffic. But what's scary there is that now one with just the eye sees how traffic has slowed down to the last few years. One sees that reports show that the growth in car traffic between 1990 and 2007 was 70 pst. That means we need restrictive measures. Looking away from political agreements, there's now a real plurality for cow pricing in Hordaland County. Purchase pricing will improve output, reduce environmental emissions and be socially viable. The county councillor has set up the county council to introduce time-differentiated toll rates from 1 January 2012. The purchase price report has shown that increasing car maintenance and population growth in the mountainous region will result in a traffic growth of 40-50 pst. over a 30-year period. My point is that we can't build ourselves out of this challenge with new paths. We need a further expansion of the Urban Railway, and we need restrictive measures. The majority of the population today are positive about the introduction of cow pricing in the mountainous region. When it comes to reward funds, it was Bondevik II, with Right, Christian People's Party and Left, who introduced the scheme. Looking at the regulations from then on, there was already a premise that if the municipalities were to receive funds, they would have to be able to demonstrate restrictive measures. Purchases and parking restrictions were specifically mentioned. That's why it's weird that Right now is negative to this. They did not exactly carry the reward scheme for baptism. It was the Left who did. But at least they were fathers. So they're negative to something that they're premissing themselves. We also see that in right-hand Bergen there are no parking restrictions. I tend to say that the parking spaces in Bergen disappear under the ground, and then they disappear. We're going to listen to children and full people, and the only comment my children have when they see the City Course is, why don't we get him out where we live? It's young people who use the collective offer, and I'm absolutely sure that the Urban Railway is going to be a success, as most people, including the voters of the Progress Party, are going to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1471	It's interesting to sit and listen to the debate today, because it's possible to observe at least the following: the Progress Party reveals itself as the party that focuses on the major investment projects, but does not have the same mention of the programme areas. Arne Sortevik refers to the programme areas of a previous post as a sort of secondary measure, as I heard it at least. And then you talk about collective action, you talk about road safety measures, it's about walking and cycling routes, it's about environmental and centre actions – important actions for most people in Bergen. It's about the extension and conversion of the bus station, the upgrading of stops, the terminals in Åsane and Loddefjord. It is about signalling lanes, securing pedestrian crossings and road safety audits on routes with many accidents. It is about walking and cycling along the Hjellestadwegen, along the Totlandsvejen, along the Haakonsververvängen. It's about environmental and centre measures along Strandkaien, King Oscar's Gate, extending the Håkonsgat and upgrading Peter Jebsen's road in the Outer Arna Centre, plus noise measures along existing roads. All these are measures that are important to most people in the mountains and mountains, and that are as important to most people in the mountains and mountains as the large investment projects. That's why we from the government fraction, along with the Christian People's Party, have been concerned about saying that this is so important that it's not these programme areas that are to be cut only if there are exceedances, or if something happens on the income side. But I can reassure the representative Halleraker that our remark is not such as to understand that you protect the programme areas so that it goes beyond the Urban Railway. That's misconception. You have to follow the cut list first. And when the cut list is followed, you have to cover the program areas. And then Halleraker also knows what's left. The mountain is a pleasant city. But Bergen is a little special too. And it's very special to observe the Progress Party in Bergen, which goes out and in by the City Council as a kind of yes after when you make the decisions about toll financing, and when you don't get them. I am now recording that the Progress Party is actually inside the City Council in Bergen, because the difficult decisions on funding are now taken. This will help to realise and implement these measures. Understand who it is who wills!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1480	I found it exciting to follow the Progress Party in this debate – the party that wants to be impatient on behalf of most people. But when they talk about the city track, they say that things happen too fast, a desire for a piece of work, a desire for a bureaucracy, a need to listen and use the experience that will come when it comes to this project. I think it's a paradox, when we know how the Progress Party normally tends to be in this room, that they want to behave in a different way. The representative, Torkil Åmland, says that when he was signed, there was considerable resistance to the Urban Railway. That's absolutely right. It was a significant resistance to the Bybanen. But it was courageous politicians in Bergen who went before. And it's happened before, in other cases in this room. The same thing happened with the Smoking Act. There was considerable resistance in the people to the smoking law. But then some brave politicians chose to go ahead. And today, there is a great deal of support for the smoking law. I think that had a walk on the street in Bergen in winter, with the air problems that were there, and asked people if they wanted to get in place a city track, faster and better, so I'm sure there was a great deal of excitement about it in Bergen town. So to the representative Hoksrud, it's absolutely right that I'm proud that we've been involved in toll financing, because it's been part of a good project. And that's how the money that the Progress Party uses in this room is also paid in by the Norwegian people. So the option of user funding must be tax increases or withdrawals from the pension fund. There are no simple solutions, which the Progress Party is trying to instill in us in this debate. Then I will also comment on this with walking and cycling paths and a reward scheme. The government has added bicycles to today's reward scheme. My concern is that it can lead to a leaching of the system. I therefore think that we should think about a separate system for walking and cycling roads. Ensuring security for walking and cycling is very important. I felt that the Council of State was responding in its reply, even if one has inserted it. So I'm worried that you're going to get a leaching of the system. So I think a separate system is something the government should consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1491	A little visit to the Progress Party, which had as slogans at the last election: ‘We want to renew Norway.’ But when it comes to this matter, we can’t really talk about the renewal of Norway. There we talk about one going in the good old track that one has walked in the whole way, more asphalt – asphalt, asphalt, asphalt – and more car. So I also thought it was interesting when the Progress Party is trying to look like "pure and rank," which it is called, in some ways, that one is against tolls; tolls are robbery; money is taken out of the pockets of people, a Christmas gift, and then put one at a giro. Perhaps the Progress Party is about to make sure to go to trial against Søviknes, or Myhre or others in the Progress Party, those who have been with and introduced tolls, instead of standing here and yelling at us others. Clean up your own game! Make sure they're honest! Now they appear to be double moralists, for whom they want results, while in this Chamber they are, as they are, opposed. No, this is too cheap. Then I have to go into Halleraker too. He has an important representative in the City Council leader in Bergen. The game Right is split in Bergen when it comes to rush time charges. Many in Bergen Right will have something that results from greenhouse gas emissions, and will have reduced car traffic. Others in the game, maybe a multiple, don't want it. But at least that's how Halleraker then uses time to try to avoid Bergen joining in on the solution that works. He has been given that as he says the most important task today. I have to say that is disappointing in relation to what Erna Solberg has signed up to in the climate agreement, and that now Halleraker will not be on. As the only party among those involved in the climate deal, Right is now pulling out. He can't get away with that truth. We all see that, and we also see that in the right-hand form of a comment. So the Right can increase its trust by actually standing on what's in the climate agreement, and make sure that Erna Solberg and Right do not lose face in Bergen, rather by listening to the whole Right, and not to a town councillor in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1503	I wanted to use it now to thank you for a good debate, but now I see a few more speakers coming. So thank you in advance for what is also going to be said after me! What we will adopt later this evening is a follow-up to what the municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland will do. Several have been involved in local democracy and popularism in a debate earlier today. What we're doing now is following up what Bergen and Hordaland want. That's what I think we should do. I have to be sorry: I had a conversation in my main post, where I was injured to say Bergensbanen instead of the City Railway. And when that damage has happened, I can say that I sincerely hope that even when it comes to upgrading Bergensbanen, we will continue the work without delay and with good progress – even if it is a different matter. Then the City Railway has been called the path of the ladies. There's a lot of ladies lined up, and I'll call it a couple more. Anna Elisa Tryti, former municipal councillor in Bergen, no county head of culture in Hordaland, was called the mother of the city railway. Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen has done a lot for the City Railway. A drum with ladies! I'm going to use it myself, so I'm going to assume that it's also a master's department. Once again, thank you for the debate that has been – and the one that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1516	It is not often you thank for the debate until it is finished. I hope that was not thanked too early for a good debate. But I have a few comments, including: to Hareide's comment to me, where he talks about courageous politicians, who are going against the people's opinion and do not want a referendum. On the one hand, we are criticized for not listening to the people. When we listen to people – when we want referendums, when we want them to come through – we are criticized for not being brave against the people. I can't quite place things here. But I think the basic thing is that it's actually the mountains that have to pay for this. Then the mountains must also be taken on board. That's why we think this should have been put to a referendum in Bergen to find out if you really want the measures that you're launching here. So a little bit about this with the evaluation of the project, and it's almost ridiculed that the Progress Party will have an evaluation further. We know how many risk factors there are in this project as far as it is now. The part that is now built on the Urban Railway is in the densest populated part. Only there is so little population there that you have to have a comprehensive feeding bus system to bring people to the city track to get enough people on the track. And that's the densest populated part. So now you're going to build this out in all other celestial directions as well, where there's a much smaller population base than that where you're already building. But then you're not going to know if this is actually going to pay off – whether it's population-based. Then you're just going to start. Why? Well, because you, I think, have come to some kind of 'point of no return'. So many investments have been made in infrastructure, etc. To make it look like it pays off, you have to build on what you've done today. Then there's in a way no way back, and then it's almost like you don't want to figure out in advance what the consequences are. I'm going to go back to the question that I had in my first post: now you've added up to an interest rate of 4.75 pst. That's an extra cost of 1.8 billion. kr, which the drivers have to pay – they spend a few years paying it. If this goes into 8 pst, like the State Road Service has estimated, they say there'll be a few billion more at extra cost. It's not unlikely that it will happen during this period. Then my question is, how do you deal with such a situation? Is it with increased tolls, or do you want to cut down on bicycle paths and all these other things? It has been said that also advance part pickers will take the Urban Railway, and you should have been in Bergen and seen in winter when the situation was as it was. I live in Bergen, and I was there in winter. I can rest assured that I cycled every day – not just for the environment, but for myself as well. The city track will only be 20 pst. for the benefit of the population. The other 80 pst. is still going to use the bus. What happens now is you don't build a good bus system because you put everything on this path to the 20 pst. It's actually a misalignment for the people of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1529	The representative Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1532	There are cheap points from the representative Langeland. The Progress Party will renew with exciting railway development and more asphalt. It is the Stortinget that adopts an extra tax, which is why we have the matter for consideration today. To the representative Susanne Bratli on the programme areas: No, we do not think they are secondary measures. But we think they should have other funding. In the Bergen programme, there is a balance between three areas – transport, urban development and the environment. We still want more on the transport side. It will also provide better urban development and a better environment. So to the representative Hareide: we want to be sure that actions you are now adding two billion to, actually have a good effect. Professional competence gives reason to ask questions about it. We want to be sure. And also to Hareide about what the option is – user finance, tax in one way or another? No, then I think the representative Hareide is speaking against better knowledge. He agrees with the Progress Party that with state enterprises and loan arrangements, we can invest much more than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1541	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1544	No, the right does not fold in the climate deal. And just as in the climate agreement, we're going to continue to push the government into such important issues. I never hear that the representative Langeland is talking about the message that the government made as a starting point for the climate agreement we finally got. This is about a total load for the users. And then I'd like to remind Langeland that even here in Oslo, there's nothing going on from SV and for example. The working party for road pricing. No, there is a large package here and good things are achieved in the field of car-reduction. What law should be applied? Is there time-differentiated rates within a tolling system, or is there road pricing within that law? I would like to remind you that increased rates will mean traffic rejection. Finally, a very open invitation to Langeland: the right has made proposals for 3 billion. kr for urban railways. It must be supported by Langeland, if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1553	Let me confirm some questions that have come. The first was from Øyvind Halleraker and applied a comment from the plural where an underline how important it is that ‘The measures within the programme areas may drive bicycles and public transport as transport modes, and my programme areas must be protected as far as possible if costs or revenues change’. I refer you to Susanne Bratli's post - an excellent argument for that very thing. Then to Torkil Åmland. It is amazing to sit here and listen to a representative who himself tells me that he has been involved in debates on this in Bergen. So he brings up this local debate, which is going to take place in Bergen, and then he wants the Stortinge to review the decisions that have been made for the longest time by the populace in Bergen and in Hordaland County on behalf of the people who are going to be users of the track, of Ringveg west and of the measures otherwise. Then he presents this as a gift – that is, as if the Bergen program were a gift, but as a carist and others had to pay. I find reason to remind you that there is actually an application from the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland that we are dealing with here. It was one of the first things I met when I came into the department, via a question from Bergensavisen – it was councillor Monica Mæland who thought I was training a case about the Bergen programme. I replied, as it was true, that I did not know anything about the Bergen program, which was in the department. This led to a new look: it was tragic for the Norwegian people – I quote it not entirely word by word, but about – who had a government council that didn't know what things were in the ministry. Later it turned out that things had not come to the department; things were in the Directorate of Roads. I knew the commitment that was in Bergen, and I have made my point that this matter came forward quickly. But let me underline one more time: it was an application from the municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland. Then it says in the proposition that these are tasks related to risk, where the borrowing is large, and where the interest rate is uncertain. That is precisely why it is important to put in place good reporting procedures and good dialogue. I am confident that if any of the officers here were to fail, the county council and the municipality of Bergen will take a roundabout on how it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1571	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3961]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1587	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1596	The majority has already agreed to include Regulation (EC) No. 1370/2007 of 23 October 2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and by road, the Public Transport Regulation, and repealing Council Regulation No. 1191/69 and 1107/70 of the EEA Agreement in their treatment of St.prp. [[EF]] [[EEC]] No 82 for 2007-2008 and Innst. S. No 32 for 2008-2009. The issue we are dealing with today is to facilitate the implementation of the collective transport regulation and is a national adaptation to the regulation through amendments to the Professional Transport Act and the Railway Act. The general rule of the Regulation is that a public service contract is to be awarded on a competitive basis, but in some cases it may be awarded directly without prior competition. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, are committed to the security of workers. We are pleased that there is a clear possibility in the regulation to continue the requirements of the Working Environment Act on the rights of workers in the event of transfer of activities and to support the government's enforcement of these requirements. We have noticed – and stressed – the involvement of employee organisations in this matter. We are committed to ensuring maximum freedom of action within the regulation and thus strengthening local self-government. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party indicate that the general rule of the regulation is a ten-year contract length, with a view to extending the contracts up to 15 years in special cases. We believe that there may be cases where extended contract time may prove useful, and therefore propose a different wording than the government in the second paragraph of Section 27 which ensures this space of action. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party are satisfied that the Regulation will not apply to commercial express buses and that rail transport is not subject to competition requirements. We believe it is important that long-distance bus services are developed and can become a real transport option on even more routes. There is a view that is well described in the setting of the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. That approach pointed to the challenge that could arise for cross-border bus/express buses when public transport in one of the counties is put out of competition or otherwise reorganised. Many express bus routes have a local route function on the assignment of the county on partial sections, and many entry routes/corresponding routes are operated by agreement with the county municipalities. We see this issue being updated in the context of the new legislation, and we believe that the Ministry of Transport is closely monitoring the situation and is engaged in a good dialogue with the county councils, among others. ensuring national objectives to strengthen the express bus offer. Government lots refer to the opening of the Regulation to fix maximum tariffs for all passengers or specific categories of passengers. Access to maximum tariffs for e.g.: students, children and pensioners can ensure equal discounts irrespective of means of transport and regardless of whether the offer is part of a publicly purchased transport offer. We believe that this can be an important tool in helping to develop a special express bus offer, as lower prices will provide more passengers. We therefore ask the government to consider maximum tariffs as an instrument for developing attractive public transport. The practice of today in the field of outsourcing is different in the counties. Even I am well aware of the assessments and experiences of a county municipality where it has been decided not to put out public transport. There is good experience in concluding long-term agreements after negotiations with the companies. This is also one of the first county municipalities in the country to have seats and seat belts installed for school students. It shows that there are also possibilities within other forms of contract. We therefore welcome the gradual implementation of the rules on competitive outsourcing over a transitional period of 10 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1617	Let me first address the proposals of the Progress Party. Let me also say that we in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities will subsidize proposal No. 3, from the right. The general rule under the Regulation is that a public service contract is to be awarded on a competitive basis, but in some cases it may be awarded directly without direct competition in advance. I quote from the setting summary of the proposition: ‘The Regulation lays down rules which set out the requirements to benefit from competition in the purchase of services and the award of single rights in the road and road public transport sectors and the content of public service contracts. Once such competition has been implemented, there is no additional obligation to compete in the market. The rule in the first paragraph of the current Section 8 of the Transport Act is that competition is voluntary. This rule must be amended in order that Norwegian law does not conflict with EEA law. The other amendments to the Transport Act are adaptations to this amendment. The Railway Act does not currently have any rules on the obligation to postpone competition. It is necessary to amend the Railway Act in order to provide for a regulation on the implementation of the Regulations for the railway sector.’ In the Progress Party, we have taken note of the background to the proposal referred to as follows: «The regulation shall ensure effective public transport services through regulated competition. This means that an obligation to compete in the market is imposed.’;» Just as a blind hen can also find some grain, there can rarely be good things from the EU. We in the Progress Party are pleased that, in line with the regulation, the government proposes that clear rules for the use of competition in the purchase of public transport services by road and rail be laid down by law, regulation or administrative action and that the use of competition should become the general rule. We consider such a turnaround as favourable for transport users and favourable for the public in order to be able to obtain good effect from public efforts when both framework and public purchases relating to transport are determined. That is why we are satisfied with the reversal of existing legislation. We are not satisfied that government parties are trying to mitigate the impact of the new EU guidelines. So the government feels compelled to accept the regulation, but tries to mitigate and reduce the effect of such an acceptance. The Progress Party wants the most competition possible, and we therefore believe that regulation should be replaced by legislation. We therefore promote proposals for implementation by legislative amendment rather than by regulation. The express bus offer – or long-distance bus offer, as it says in the cancellation – is affected by a new regulatory framework. Long-distance bus services are important. The development of the express bus offer has shown that this mode of transport covers a high transport demand and has at the same time underlined the importance of the road network within a total national transport production. The progressing party recalls that when we have had both train stop and air stop earlier this year, it is precisely the express buses that have met the need for long-distance passenger transport. We want to facilitate the establishment, operation and development of cross-border bus routes/express buses independently of the national organisation or reorganisation of bus-based public transport. The Progress Party therefore considers that a system of State legislation and state approval of long-distance bus offers should be considered in any case. I stress that such a regime must be established in order to facilitate the establishment and operation of such a bus service. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The government requests the submission of a case assessing a system of state legislation and the approval of long-distance bus services crossing county boundaries in order to ensure the proper functioning of express bus services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1656	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposals he referred to and has announced that the Progress Party supports the Right's proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1659	Now this is a matter of implementing a regulation and at the same time repealing another Council Regulation. The rapporteur has explained the matter from the Committee, perhaps with a slightly greater focus on the comments of the position than the Committee itself. Both the representative Sortevik and the case rapporteur have gone through what this matter is actually about, and I am going to spend a very short time. I just want to say that the Right is actually very comfortable with that government put forward, and finds no reason to weaken what was the government's original proposal with a regulation. I take up the proposal from the Right and briefly understand the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1666	The representative Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1669	This is the case for the implementation of Regulation EC 1370/2007, the collective regulation in Norwegian law. It is a regulation that was implemented in the EU on 3 December 2009. The size has in Innst. S. No 32 for 2008-2009 consented to its inclusion in the EEA Agreement. Collective transport, in accordance with this principle, shall, within 10 years, by 2019, be excluded from competition, but with clear exceptions: the Regulation establishes how competent governance powers, within the framework of EEA law, can intervene in public transport in order to ensure the provision of services of general interest, which have a right frequency, are safer, better and more reasonable than it can achieve through market forces. The Regulation determines the means by which the governance can grant access and/or exclusive rights to operators in the bus and rail sectors in connection with the fulfilment of public service obligations. As seen above, these exceptions are examples of the fact that the EU also sees that market solutions have their limits. The general rule for the award of public service contracts is that they are to be awarded on a competitive basis. The main exceptions are that competition is not required when it is applicable to the first railway on the national network, the second where the administrative authorities themselves or an internal operator carry out the service, third where the value of the contract or the output contracted in the contract is below certain thresholds and, fourthly, in emergency situations. What about them then? When it applies to the rights of those added by means of competition, it follows from the Regulations that they may be added with the same rights as in the case of the transfer of business. This means that the rules on the protection of rights conferred on them will be maintained, as demonstrated by the Transport Act and the Railway Act. It is a continuation of previous decisions. The government has chosen a minimum resolution. The proposed amendment of the law is essentially limited to changes necessary to implement the regulation in Norwegian law. I mean, it's going to be possible to incorporate this regulation into regulation. The Professional Transport Act today states that the granting of rights may take place in the event of competition. This rule must be changed so that it does not conflict with the regulation. The other amendments to the Transport Code are essentially adaptations to that amendment. For the railway system, a new rule must be included in the railway legislation, which allows for the regulation of the incorporation of the public transport system in the railway area. In some respects, the Regulations allow national administrations to choose what should apply. Among other things, it is up to national administrations to make the rules of the regulation applicable to national maritime transport and to make use of the possibilities for exemption from the competition requirement set out in the regulation. I believe that national and local authorities should have the greatest possible degree of freedom to adapt the rules to the local needs, and therefore do not intend to restrict regional and local authorities' freedom of action more than is necessary. Among other things, where the transitional period of 10 years is involved, before the rules on the use of offers are fully in force, I will leave it up to local authorities to assert that contracts are gradually established in accordance with the principle of a call for competition. Then it's positive that they can add their rights to it. Cross-border express bus routes operated on a commercial basis are not covered by the rules of the Regulation. Some cross-country express bus routes today received support from the county municipalities on parts of the section, and are then included. I agree with a joint committee that believes that the express bus offer is an important part of the collective provision in the country. I am asked to follow developments closely. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1695	So we're going to have a turnaround – there's competition that's the general rule and competition that apply. What benefits does the Council of State feel that transport users receive when we receive a competitive concession as a general rule? And if this is what the Council of State sees for advantage, are there advantages that cannot be used in the railway sector, since the railway sector is to be ‘look at’, if you can use that expression, for this good effect of competitive outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1700	I don't think I'm one of those people who see the benefits of a competitive postponement the same way that the Progress Party does. I believe, on the contrary, that so far it has been wise in this sector to deal with the individual areas, according to the local authorities. This means that in some states, one of them has put in place good competition, improved quality, at lower prices. In other areas, it is a great advantage that it is the public that operates the routes. On the railways, as it has the right to do so far in our country, I cannot see that there are some advantages to some particular increased competition compared to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1708	Now, and I'm sure the Council of State heard that the Right promoted the proposal that the government originally made. What does the Council of State think about the opposition in the Stortinget dealing with the government's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1713	It's the contents of the different issues that are always the point, and not the ones that present them. I record that the result of the treatment in Stortinget has been as it has been. As the representative Schou probably registered, this proposition is not the one I would give myself the highest priority if I had been free, but here is a previous decision in the Stortinget that requires us to facilitate the putting in place of this regulation. It is now done, and I am happy that the government has come to a minimum solution, and that the Storting thinks we should follow the situation carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1718	Interestingly, those who only use and can use the railway will not benefit from the competition. They should only experience that trains are standing, because they are not going any longer, while others using buses and other collective services are going to enjoy what competition offers in every possible facet of good new offers. I really want to challenge the Council of State on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party, which runs on buses that run across the county boundaries. If you sit on the bus down here on the bus terminal in Oslo, you can drive by three different buses to Kristiansand. But the three different bus companies that frequent this route are not allowed to stop for example. Larvik. When we have a government and a majority who are very concerned that people are going to use collective services, you should make sure that those buses can get rid of people and bring people, so that people actually have the opportunity to use the collective offer. But because of today's legislation, there are some county councils that refuse to do so. How will the Council of State deal with this situation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1727	Let me just say to the railway that what I've seen as the most important thing here is to create a track that allows the train to go, and then it's the railway station that manages it with good help from different suppliers in different fields. That's that side. Then there's some competition on trains. Right now I didn't think it was the most important thing. I have wondered a little about proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party, because it is an interesting proposal in the sense that it may seem that the liberalisation that has taken place in this field, i.e. when it relates to express buses and the transfer of responsibility delegated to the county councils, is not the party with which to progress. They want this back to the state. I mean that the question that Hoksrud is asking here must be a right to the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1736	I would like to say that some of the things that lie in the proposal that the Christian People's Party and the Government Party are making for greater flexibility for the ministry in the performance of the important tasks they are about to have in the future. The representative Hoksrud took this up with some routes that depend on county support. So we see that now, because the state regulates this, it creates challenges for paths that go between multiple states. For example, Hordaland County pays the route from Bergen to Odda, while the national route from Oslo to Bergen could take some of the tasks. Is the Council of State thinking about the political challenge of state control of all this, while we also have some national needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1745	Let me acknowledge the change proposed in Section 27, because I agree with that change, and I think it is good with the flexibility that will allow more people to adapt to the regulation for a longer period of time. So to the express buses: yes, I have recorded that this, in spite of the Western Council and what else they had to be called, and the coordination that is taking place within the county councils differently when it comes to these routes, are some questions that are being asked and that are being asked with good reason. I think I'll stick to what the committee has also underlined there. I will follow the situation closely when it comes to express buses, and see if we can contribute any coordination there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1752	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1757	I had to take the word after the line change with the Council of State. The whole point is that there is no liberalisation that has happened. It is such that some power has been transferred to the county councils in this area – to be responsible for the coordination of permits and to grant concessions. The challenge here is for all customers, when it is the case that a county municipality – in order to protect its own bus companies operating in its own state – will refuse to allow the buses passing through the county to carry passengers and to set off passengers. However, if you choose to do so, you risk losing the concession to do express bus business. The problem is that if I go to the bus terminal and sit on one of the express buses, I come to Telemark – because you are allowed to stop there. But if I'm going to Larvik, for example. So to Bommestad, which is a little outside of Larvik, I can't use either the competitor, the Southern Express, or the Low Price Express. I can use the Torp Express, but then I can't get where I'm going. The problem for all those living along the road is that there are almost no buses going there. That means you really don't have a real collective offer. There's buses running past the unit, but they're not allowed to stop and put people off or bring people with them. That is exactly the opposite of what we have discussed earlier today: the importance of using the collective offer, and that people should have the opportunity to use the collective offer, and that we are going to discuss later today. So the result is a worse offer for those who want to use the collective offer, because a few people sit and fence about their own companies in their own county. That's exactly what we're critical of. Then it's not a liberalisation, then there's someone who wants to sit around and fence their giant. We're very critical of that. It is important to have an express bus offer, it is a huge offer, but it must be possible for more people to use the good offer, especially when there is extremely little local offer that can be used on the same route as the express buses are running – and not allowed to allow customers to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3961]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1782	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1791	I would first like to congratulate the representatives who have promoted the proposal. There is an important issue concerning the safety of children. The Committee refers to previous deliberations on this matter – with similar proposals from representatives – also during the previous period. This winter there have been several bus accidents with school children, and it renews the debate on child restraints using seats and seat belts. The Committee then notes with satisfaction that, in its opinion to the Committee, the Council of State confirms the need to assess common guidelines in order to ensure the availability of all school children's seats and seat belts in the school bus. It is such that schoolchildren are transported across the country by bus to and from home and school, and it is important and necessary to facilitate a safe and safe journey for schoolchildren using buses. The debate and willingness to ensure safe and secure school transport for all children and young people is important, regardless of where you live in the country. It is unacceptable that the economy of each county municipality should be crucial for the safe and secure transport of each school student to the school. Today, county councils and municipalities are responsible for the school kiss. There is a great deal of freedom in the design of this cloud offering and in making demands on the contracts and invitations to tender for which carriers compete. Many municipalities are actively involved in road safety and school kissing, among others. by requiring the seating of all school children, the maximum and average age of the bus equipment and the rules of the cloud for drivers and school pupils. This has been less the case with regard to seat belt requirements. We believe that attention should be focused on the damage potential, and the possibility of preventing this precisely by the use of seating positions and seat belts. The Minister of Knowledge has taken the initiative of setting up a joint working group, a working group to address current issues related to road safety and school noise on a bus, and whether there is a basis for any legislative change. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of making changes as soon as possible and the need to adapt the practical implementation of the dialogue with the county councils. The urban buses – referred to as Class 1 – should be kept out of the scheme, in the same way that this category of vehicle is also not included in the seat belt directive. Urban buses are specially designed for a large number of parking spaces, built for fast access and disembarkation, and are also used in areas of lower risk, i.e. cities and agglomerations. These are also, in particular, exempted from the obligation to install seat belts under the EEA Agreement. That's about. 200,000 children who use school buses daily, and in many buses, seat belts are missing. It is also estimated that 10,000 children are missing seats. It is a paradox that taxi passengers may be fined if they do not wear seat belts, while children are forced to stand in the middle of a school bus without any form of restraint. Compliance should be established between the requirements for the protection of children in the passenger car and the safety of the bus. The duty of schooling must be followed by a right to get to and from school safely. There are currently considerable differences between the different municipalities. These differences also help to ensure that students in some states have safe school transport where all students have both seats and seat belts, while other students in other counties have neither seats nor seat belts. This is about a year. 40 injuries caused by school transport. Fortunately, there have been so few serious accidents, but that does not mean that there is no risk of accidents. Only in the last year have there been several near-misses and accidents where there have been only coincidences that have caused children and young people not to be harmed. A hearing was held on this matter on 5 May. On questions related to this consultation on the need for legal regulation, the consultation revealed that the proposals contained in the document were fully supported both by the Children's Ombudsman and by Safety Traffic, and I refer to the proposals that have been made in the case. So I would particularly like to mention suggestions from the Right and Right points of view. We regret that so far it seems that the government has chosen not to take any action to ensure that all schoolchildren receive safe and secure school transport, which ensures all seat belts and seating, but responds by putting down another sample. Seat belts for children in school buses have been the subject of a series of years, and it is, as I said, the county councils that are responsible for this. I'll come back to our views in a later article, and I'll take up the suggestions then.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1828	Traffic security is the main basis for transport policy. Making sure that we can all travel safely and safely is important. Safe transport of our kids to and from school is both a legitimate, important and right requirement, and it is a paradox that there are strict rules for securing children in cars, but that in school buses it has been free for a long time. There have been standing places and buses without seat belts for a long time. But there are great improvements around the country. Several municipalities have been nice in this area and understood that they must actually take responsibility for what kind of noise they offer to school students. I myself, as the county board for transportation in the Nord-Trøndelag, have been responsible for putting in first seats for all the students and then seat belts for all the students, and from 1 January this year there were also seat belts in all the buses in the Nord-Trøndelag transporting school students. The experience I have from my work on this in my home country has given me an insight that suggests that things are not as straightforward as they are initially presented, and it has given me a lesson that the cost is not necessarily as great as you thought. I think it is nice to note that there is actually a cross-political consensus in the Stortinget – in all the parties – on the goal of seating and seat belts for all the students. I think it is nice to note that we agree that this is something that is urgent. Then it is that the opposition believes that most things can be solved through representative proposals in Stortinget, while in the position we are continuously working on matters, including: together with political leadership in the Department. During the treatment of the state budget last autumn, the government fraction had a note on seat belts, where we asked the government to continue working on the matter. And this has been followed up by the Joint Working Group between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Education, which is to address current issues related to road safety and school bus. This is a work that is actually about more than seats and seat belts – it is a work that will reveal what the right means are in the context. It is also a question of changing traffic rules when it comes to passing school bus/bus, it is a question of standardising school bus, and it is a matter of different issues that we assume will be assessed by the working group. When it comes to the uniformation of school buses, I would like to refer to the government parties' remark on page 4 of the setting. In the event of an incurrency, the EU bus directive has been referred to with the wrong number. The appropriate number shall be 2001/85/EC and shall be implemented in Norwegian legislation with effect from 13 February 2004. For me, this case is too important to turn political coins on. To that I – and the rest of the government fraction, and to that extent the rest of the committee – have too much commitment. I am recording in articles in the newspaper today that the proposers are not of the same opinion. Trying to create the impression that there's no consensus about the goals, that not all parties agree on the goal that all school children should have seats and seat belts, and that not everyone has it busy, is distorting reality. That opposition and position have different approaches to resolving matters is actually nothing new – we experience that every time and in every case when we are dealing with representative proposals here in the Chamber. Finally, I would like to add that it is not forbidden for the county councils to take seriously the responsibilities they actually have today. It is the duty of the county councils to ensure that a safe transport is actually provided for school students, and I do not think it is sustainable – as it is done in many ways – to blame for the lack of finances. The economy of the counties has been considerably strengthened in recent years. It's about priorities, and those priorities we challenge the county councils to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1847	I have to say I was kind of provoked by the previous speaker, because this is a typical way of explaining that you actually haven't done anything. This is not a matter that was raised for the first time now – this is a matter we have been dealing with for many years. Mostly every time the government has said that this is what we're doing about, this is what we're going to get back to, this is what we're going to clean up. And that's exactly the same thing you do in connection with the decision that the government parties are now making, just saying that the matter is attached to the protocol. With respect to reporting: This is a matter that we have spent over five years on – I have at least participated in discussing it for five years, and I know it was up before that too. There has been no lack of promises – the promises have been in piles. And you have reduced sample sizes, you have been asked to produce reports, but the reports have shown that there has been no need, because the cost has been too small to do anything about this situation. So the last thing now is that this spring you should have finished working in an interministerial working group, and as far as I know, we are in June now. That means that that report should be completed, and one should be able to get answers from the Council of State on whether or not there will be protection for all children in school buses from the fall of. Yes, it is the responsibility of the county councils – and it has been a disclaimer from the government parties the last time we have discussed this matter. The problem is that the county councils must give priority, and this is not a statutory task. That's one of the things we put forward, and that's one of the proposals of the Progress Party, that we are going to legislate on the safe transport of the children. At least I think it is unacceptable that the county economy should decide whether or not our children will have safe and secure transport. Yesterday I was at a conference on child safety in the car. This is a requirement. If you do not make sure that your children are safe and secure, you will be fined and ordered to make sure that your children are well and safe. But where the public is responsible, this is not the same requirement. There you can say, and if you're lucky, you might even get a seat belt in some county municipalities, because there's someone who's been able to find room for it, but a lot of people don't. So it's 200,000 children who use buses every day, and it's 4,000 to 10,000 who don't have a seat or seat belt. Most people don't get seat belts. But the paradox is that me and all the other adults who sit on an express bus are guaranteed both seats and seatbelts, but our children are sending us around in the oldest buses, without either seatbelts or – for many of them – a place to sit. I don't understand the logic of it. The conclusion of the SINTEF report, which the previous Minister for Transport used as an argument not to introduce this last time, was that the costs of deployment were too high in relation to the accident costs. I mean, here we can't put a price tag on our kids. But the government has obviously done that, as you continue to push the matter in front of you. Then I have to get into a couple of the suggestions. I think it's a little special that the Christian People's Party and the Right are promoting a proposal to have a five-year transitional arrangement to replace the old buses, when the companies say we do that in 4.3 years, without any more transitional arrangements. Then you get the buses replaced before, and then it's quite silly to come forward with a proposal that allows a person to spend longer time and get a longer transitional arrangement than is needed, according to what the industry itself sees. It would be better to conclude on the proposals made by the Progress Party to take action to further reduce the transition period, and to ensure that all children are given seat belts when they are being transported to and from school. All children are required to be at school. I believe that there is also a requirement to have a safe and secure transport between home and school, which is the work of the children. That is why we have promoted this proposal. But I am now eager to hear whether the government will ensure that all children now get safe and secure school transportation, with a seat to sit on and seatbelts, or whether it is still going to be such that this matter is allowed to continue indefinitely, before taking a final position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1862	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative took up the proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1865	I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1870	The motions in the vote were then put to the vote by the representative of Hoksrud. The President would also point out that the term ‘fair customs’ — on suggestions from others — is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1875	I'll try to be engaged, but not as indignant as the previous speaker was. Traffic safety is important. There is no doubt that it is important that we ensure both our kids, ourselves and others when we are going to and from work, and when we are going to take advantage of our leisure time. In all respects, road safety is important. The centre party is also concerned that we should ensure that our kids have a safe and safe school path, which also means, of course, that they should be secured by bus. It is very gratifying that it is a big deal that agrees that this is an important matter. I think that's very nice. Like the representative Bratli, I refer to the comment that was in the state budget, which shows that we are repeating that work. A working group has been set up, not just to work on the matter, but to find solutions to how it should be done. It is the responsibility of the counties, and the counties solve their road safety work in many different ways. Traffic safety is a work that I feel the county councils take very seriously and work well and seriously. I would like to remind you that there are some of the states that are actually doing this, without the law. Bratli referred to Nord-Trøndelag. I can refer you to Nordland, who has solved this by demanding seat belts in the tender review. That's one way to do it. I trust that the job done by the government will lead to the establishment of the dialogue that is going to take place in the county councils, and that we will come up with the proposals that will allow us to secure our kids on the bus as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1886	In Norway, we have an obligation to go to school. Then the Christian People's Party felt that it is natural that this is followed up by a right to come safely to and from school. That's why it's good that all the parties in this room are some about the intention that we get a safe school road, that we have seats for the children, and that the seat belt should be in place. That's why I thought it was interesting to right the reflections of the representative Susanne Bratli, who so clearly shows that we can do this when the political will is there. I'm impressed by what one's been given in the North Trøndelag, where one's had politicians who have seen the significance of this, and have gone on leading. I also thought it was interesting when you said that the cost was not as high as it would often have anticipated. But then I would like to point out that a decision has been taken on this earlier. In this Chamber a decision has been taken in the light of an opinion delivered by the Committee on Transport and Communications on 26 February 2008. A decision was taken on 13 March 2008 to: ‘introduce mandatory seating for schoolchildren in school pillows by bus. [[...]] Work starts after the report on ‘Security related to the transport of school children by bus’ has been submitted to the Ministry of Transport.’ On that basis, when we know that this can happen when it's political will, I feel that it has happened too little in the matter. It is therefore a paradox, I think, that the representative Hoksrud criticises the Right Party and the Christian People's Party because we do well to set a deadline. The same representative points out that he has been working on this matter for five years and has not done anything, and then he criticises the parties in this Chamber who want to set a deadline for the work to begin. It is not only the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that have been impatient and pointed out this matter, but also the Riksrevision has done so. They have also pointed out the critical nature of this. At the hearing, a representative of the Children's Ombudsman said: ‘In 2010, where I can be fined if I am sitting in the back seat of a taxi without wearing seat belts, children are forced to stand and dangle in the middle of a school bus without any form of restraint.’ Seat and seat belt use reduce the risk of damage by at least 50 pst. in the event of an accident. That's why it's important that we make progress in this work that's bigger than what we've had in the last few years. In the same way as the representative Bratli, I have registered that the Progress Party has tried to draw another picture of this matter in the media. In the Agderpost, it was found that the representative Vosskensen met with counterclaims in the position from the majority. The majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party point out that the municipalities and municipalities are responsible for the school kiss. Yes, we have been told that the county has been able to sort things out. I would like to give the representative credit for this proposal, but I do not share the presentation given in the Agderpost. Now this is not a direct quote from the Vosskense, but I hope that even the representative Vosskensen sees that the proposals made by the Right and Christian People's Party here are presented because we are impatient, and because we believe this matter is so important. That's why we've seen a deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1908	I share the ambiguity expressed both in the committee setting and in various articles here today. I can't take responsibility for this field for the last five years, but I can take responsibility for the last eight months. I can assure you that a working group that is now set up and is run by the Ministry of Transport, not, as Hoksrud put it, will be a work that goes in ‘infinitely’. On the contrary, the government is busy with all the schoolchildren having a safe school road, the school cushion being carried out in a safe and defenceable way. It appears from both the draft representative and from the letter I sent to the Committee that this matter has been dealt with differently in recent years. It is a good example of county councils that have got this safely and well in place. But I found it necessary, not to train this work, but actually to get ahead, that the two departments that have the most to do with this, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Education, together form a working group. We saw that there are, in fact, some problem settings that need to be assessed a little bit closer. There are a number of administrative, technical and practical problems that need to be resolved by the introduction of common guidelines. Workgroup is in progress. The various solutions must be assessed in relation to the practical implementation of the county councils. The working group looks at the scope and scope of such an obligation, both in terms of the requirement for seating and the requirement for seat belt in the event of a school shower. It is an objective to make rapid changes, but at the same time it is necessary to consider the practical implementation of each county. The challenges I think are slightly different from the county council to the county council. Through this work, it has been, of course, good contact with the county councils. There's an engagement there, too, there's an involvement in many of the county councils for this matter, and the news now suggests that there's an increasing number of county councils that dimension the school skyscraper supply based on the fact that schoolchildren are going to have their seats during the school transport. At the same time, several county councils point out that there are some challenges when it comes to securing a seat for all schoolchildren in the cases where the school pillow is integrated into ordinary public transport or is operated by so-called class 1 bus, i.e. city bus. There are some who are already demanding seat belts. Let me take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee for the good recordings that have come, and which are important contributions as they now stand, into this work. And once again, let me underline: I understand illegitimately. I'll share it. But there is a working group going on that has good progress, and I hope I will be allowed to come back to Stortinget with a reasonable conclusion quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1926	It was good to hear that the working group is working. But what the State Council has given feedback on to the Committee is that it should be done in the spring of 2010. The problem with this case is that every time it has been up for treatment, a sample is to be dropped, or someone is to do a job – but it will be a long time afterwards. The council has, at least not so far, given an exact answer to: When are you done? When can a decision be made? Is the Council of State behind what she has said to the NRK Super, where she promised that from the fall on there will be a solution to this with a seat and seatbelt for children in a school bus? It is quite important to know now: Is this how what has been said to be followed up? Why do you have to have a new group to work, if that's how the Council of State has promised that this comes from the harvest of? I now hope that the Council of State can confirm that from the autumn of this year there are children in a bus secured seat belt and seating position, which she guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1933	What I have said is that it is my intention that we should have come much further with this matter to the fall. That is still my intention. I already have one case in Stortinget that should be finished before I take a vacation. I still hope that this matter will be completed by the working group before the holiday, but I think I should be careful to set a date. What I want to underline is that this is a matter of high priority in the ministry and also in the Ministry of Knowledge. We see that these are some practical challenges. I have done well for some of them, but we have registered – and share – illegitimately getting a safe school pillow for all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1940	Now the Council of State has explained that she does not take responsibility for all the five years that have been, but takes responsibility for the last eight months. To that it is well to say that government is government, comfy. The Council of State also explains that there are certain technical and administrative problems by amending regulations and laws. I think most people can sign that. However, technical and administrative changes have been made, they have said that they will change and have given a time to do so. Can the Council of State say more clearly when there are changes to the legal basis, so that we get guarantees for seating and seatbelts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1947	It is true that it has some governments in this country, yes. And that's right, this is a question that has been discussed over a long time, not only in the last five years, to which Hoksrud refers, but also in the past. And fortunately, if the engagement has been something shifting here, there are constant improvements out there. An increasing number of county municipalities dimension the school skyscraper supply on the basis that schoolchildren are entitled to have their seats during school transportation. So there are still improvements. Some guarantee I will not give today, but I ask to be trusted that this is a work in which there is no standstill, and that will soon be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1954	There will soon be a great deal of curiosity about the government's holiday plans. What is certain, at least, is that the Council of State is enjoying a holiday after a very labor-intensive winter. I thought it was nice to hear that the Council of State is impatient in this matter. I also hear that she – as the representative Schou says – takes responsibility for the last eight months, but not for the last five years. If there is a hidden criticism of own government, the Council of State may consider whether it will comment. I want to challenge on one thing. I understand that it takes a little longer when it comes to safety belts, but the seating problem I experience is relatively much easier. Could it be relevant for the Council of State to consider having a two-part division in this case, getting a seat in place relatively quickly, and then spending a little longer time on safety belts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1963	When I referred to the last eight months, I think I have to add that of course I take responsibility for what is going to happen in the future. Then from my side there was no hidden criticism, but there was actually a Document No. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs. It has been followed up differently, among others. with some questions and answers here in Stortinget from my past. I haven't seen any reason to go further into them, i.e. that I answered according to what she had answered, to the first question, in November here in the Chamber. But I went back to the department and said that I would no longer stand and say that this is only the county councils' responsibility, here we have to get a working group, here we have to get a job done. And I've followed it up, along with Kristin Halvorsen, and I'm very happy with it. If we are to continue a two-fold effort, it is something that the working group also assesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1970	This case has been in progress for many periods, as the exchange of replies just showed. Still, we wait. The last decision in the Stortinget was in 2008. Then came the report in June 2008. Two years later, we're still waiting. Let me remind the council that instructions for seat belts in the car came in 1979, if I remember correctly. Provision for seat belts in newer buses was made in 1998. Still, we are waiting to secure children in a school bus. Does the Council really believe that we should now create new uncertainty as to whether there should be mandatory seat and seat belts for school children on buses from the autumn of 2010? Should they have to wait until the fall of 2011 or wait until 2012? Is it the case that the Council of State now has to postpone its holiday for several years because this is too late? And is it going to be that the county economy decides whether or not children are being secured?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1977	So there's one part in this room that's trying to measure the situation in relation to what it actually is. The decision itself, which took place in 1999, on the improvement of the requirements for seatbelts on buses, which means that the buses inside the service offered here and registered from then on have seatbelts in place. Then it's tempting to remind you that if the Progress Party has been waiting for so many years, they would have had all the possibilities to influence three budgets not so many years ago. I can't believe that this was then taken up, but let's now jointly concentrate on and rejoice over the improvements that are happening, and that we have a work in progress that will mean further improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1986	Of course, this isn't about blackpainting, but it's about the actual situation. It's about what it's like to be a parent who every day asks if the pod or daughter comes home safely, because you're being transported in an irresponsible way, in a completely different way than anyone else who travels by bus – for example. an express bus – which is guaranteed both seating and seat belt. That's what this is all about. I think this government owes to others and pushes the problems backwards in time. It's going to be crazy when you've been sitting for five years and you promise to do something about it. We were very happy last time, when the Council of State said we should get this right now – it has now been several years since. We still don't know when we get this in place, despite the government's promise that the working group would be done before the summer. I hope the Council of State confirms that it will be finished before she takes a vacation, so that we can put in place a proper system that ensures that all children have safe school transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e1996	I know well about parents who are worried about the school pillow, about the road and too much else. I work with improvement every day. Fortunately, there are several reports showing that there are few injuries and accidents associated with driving a school bus. It is because there are more drivers and many others making an active effort to run safely. In what I would call black polling, this includes that there is nothing happening, that there are working groups working into the ova, and there is no one else but the Progress Party that cares. But that's wrong. Now it's actually so that this debate and this setting have shown that there's a mass that wants a change. It's good to bring it to the end of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2003	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2008	It is good that everyone sees the importance of securing children in a bus. But it is with sadness in my heart that I record that it is not a matter of priority for the government parties, for the Right Party and for the Christian People's Party. Our children who are our future should, in my opinion, be the most important thing for all of us. I mostly use a bus when commuting between Arendal and Oslo. The bus has almost not started until we are told that it is mandatory to use seat belts. To this day, no one has been in the hallways in the buses because there have been enough seats. It is also announced that if the bus gets full, extra buses will be installed. I mean, everybody's coming with us, with a seat belt and a seat belt. Then we get to the school buses. Obviously, here the rules are different. While we adults can get fines to sit on a bus or taxi without the seatbelt on, a lot of schoolchildren are advised to stand in the aisles while they're being transported to school. In East Agder some time ago there were some school buses that were completely crowded. Then the driver was told about the cell phone that there was control on the roads. And what happens? Well, the bus stops, and the school kids pull out and stay on the outside. That means that when there are no seat belts in the bus, either enough seats, the buses are packed, and the way to school is no longer as safe and good as it should be. That is why I understand parents who drive the children to school, with the disadvantages that result both for the environment and any road-hazardous situations when the children go out and into the car. This shows a practice that it’s just to accommodate students in the buses – they’re not that dangerous, and it’s going pretty well. This is, as I have received feedback about, which is happening in many parts of Norway. And the driver cannot be loaded, because he only follows orders from his employer. The government is failing schoolchildren on the bus when they don't want to give enough money to seats and seat belts on the buses. Is the economic price too high to secure our children as quickly as possible? Here we need to prevent and do what we can to get the least possible damage if the accident is first out. So we can do that by securing schoolchildren on their way to school. We cannot afford to wait at least 4.3 years until all the buses without seat belts are replaced. Time-limits are, of course, something that we are used to often being postponed and postponed. We have also seen that in this case. So we have to do something as fast as possible. We have to make sure today's schoolchildren and don't wait until today's schoolchildren become grandparents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2023	I record that the Council of State will have both seat belts and seats, but lack political will to drive it through, and/or lack political backing to implement what is the expressed will. It might seem like you're starting over every time. So it's not the first time this case is up. It is also not the first time that the government expressed a positive willingness to do this. Seat belts for children in school buses have been a theme for a number of years. It is such that buses are replaced regularly, and new buses come on the market. Everybody has seat belts after each time. The rate of circulation is approx. 4.3 years. In addition, it is important that children have a seating position. The side effects of children having both seating and seat belts are that there is less pushing and less bullying. It is underlined both by the Safety Traffic and the Children's Ombudsman. I think most parents with children in school busses can also clearly convey it – which, of course, is a good thing in itself. It also requires that the home, school, and bus driver be clear that this is for the benefit of children’s safety. As the case rapporteur for this case, I have actually received quite a number of enquiries from bus drivers saying that we are like everyone else, we are very different. It is also required that the driver is a good bus driver, who ensures that the children use the protective equipment present. It is important for the Right that we decide that we want seats and seat belts, and that we also provide time and opportunity for a transition period of five years, so that we can implement what is intended, that seats and seat belts are in place in all buses that carry schoolchildren to and from school, except for those buses that are clearly defined as city buses. Then we also believe that the government has focused too little on road safety. We've taken several initiatives to make school kissing safer. We have also made proposals for increased appropriations to counties to cover the costs of tightening security requirements. For reasons of road safety, several other countries also have clearer uniformisation of school buses in order to increase awareness that a school bus is driving here, that the environment should be aware of this. We also believe that demands should be made for a clearer uniformisation of school buses in our country – not just hanging a patch in the window, but having clearer labelling. The vehicle regulations require the marking of buses carrying school children and it is important that the text ‘School bus’ means something more. It is therefore important for us that the rules on the labelling of school buses are strengthened, so that we also have provisions to avoid driving past school buses when these stop for departure and entry. I take up the suggestions of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2042	The representative Injerd Schou has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2045	Let me start with a self-recognition: sometimes I feel bad about being a politician. If there had existed something that was called a world championship in explanation, I think part of the government parties' representatives would have laid down for a quite useful location. I would like to quote what the Children's Ombudsman has said to the Committee: ‘Vacational life has no price tag.’ What we're talking about in this case is the most important thing we have, our children, and we can't really transport them when they go to school. It's a mess! The day of a serious accident in which a child’s life is lost or a child is seriously damaged is the day of responsibility at the Council of State. It lies with the majority in this Chamber. Of course, it doesn't seem like a state councillor to stand on the Grand Council's pulpit and say that I've only been the Council of State for eight months, I don't take responsibility for anything else. This government has been in office since 2005, and this council has been a member of this government for much longer than in the last eight months, where she has run this department. It is the government that is responsible for this not being implemented. I get worried when I hear the representative Bratli from the Workers' Party saying that there is at least a cross-political consensus on the goal, and everyone agrees that it is urgent. Yes, we have agreed on that for five years! It's still urgent. It is just lucky that there have not been serious traffic accidents with children in school buses at that time. Children do not get safer on buses because of good intentions. It has to be done. The first time I agreed to promote this proposal was five years ago. Now, five years later, the Council of State chooses its standard solution. I want to describe it by rewriting a rather familiar saying: when the Council wants nothing to happen, she sets up a new committee. So far, none of the established committees in this case have helped a single school child. It's time to act!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2063	It is easy to understand the impatience, and that people are engaged in this matter. So are we. I'll be the first to admit that this has taken too long. We expect to find a solution quickly. At least for my part and for the position, I believe that this matter is also about being a little humble. It's taken too long. It shouldn't have taken so long. We have to find a solution quickly. Nor is it the case that we are in position somewhat less happy in our children and children in general than in the opposition. That is why I will reject what the representative Hoksrud says about the position setting a price on the heads of the children. I will also reject diet-benefit considerations in this debate and refuse to use SINTEF and others as a professional basis for possibly not introducing schemes that ensure children both seating and seatbelts on buses. I don't really think we disagree. We don't have much time. It has to happen quickly. We don't agree that there are any paradoxes here. Obviously, it's strange that if I'm going to take the bus from Arendal to Oslo, I have to sit with seatbelts, while if children are going to drive a dangerous road on the West or elsewhere on the bus maybe half an hour or an hour to school, the same doesn't apply. The criticism is understandable. We have a bad time and expect a quick result, so that all children are secured seats and seat belts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2076	I would like to say that I appreciate the humility shown by the representative de Ruiter. I think it was high time, because we easily get a sense that here you put a sample down once again, will wait and see about a situation that has been processed and treated, and I'm also quite sure that the administrative and technical conditions of changing a law have gone a lot of rounds in the past since these proposals have been dealt with. I fully agree with the council when she says it's about the ability to prioritize, and gradually there are several county councils that actually do it, including my county council, Eastfold. This winter we had an accident in the municipality of Eidsberg with a bus that drove off the road – full of schoolchildren. Fortunately, it went well, but it was a strong reminder that there were only coincidences that did not make the accident very much worse. It is also good to remember that road safety is more than just a seating position and seat belt. It is about requirements for the uniformation of school buses, and that we get a vehicle regulation that makes that clear, and that the vehicle regulations – as a minimum, of course – are followed. But it is also about getting traffic rules that are tightened up – it is in the Right’s proposal – that there is no way of passing a school bus stopping off and entering. My own experience is that in rural areas there are not always bus pockets, so it turns out that the school bus stops at the various roadways for boarding and disembarking. I also ask the Council of State to note that there are several road safety measures that can be implemented and that can help improve the school life and safety of those transported by school bus. Then I want to make a little visit to the Advance Party. They say that five-year transitional arrangements are too much. But it is good to remember that the county councils are also involved in the tendering process, and one has tenders that apply. It's not like you're just cancelling these – it's about to be prepared and made new agreements. If the Progress Party believes that being more offensive is not having a time limit on a transitional arrangement, I have to say that according to what Sortevik said in his post here instead, it could go both winter and our times by many years before this came into place. That is the way I think that the proposals of the Progress Party are less offensive than a five-year transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2085	One should hear a lot strange before the ears of this, it's called something. I thought that when I heard the previous speeches, which meant that it was offensive to be in favour of a transitional regime of five years, and that was the case, as far as the representative Hareide was concerned earlier in the debate. The point is that the difference between the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Right is that we say that we will use offensive and positive instruments to replace the buses more quickly. When the industry itself says that they need 4.3 years, because then all the buses will be replaced because of natural departures because when they have to leave operation, it's a little strange to say that we have to have a transitional arrangement that is longer than what companies say they can deliver on – it's offensive, and it's taking it seriously. I think it's the exact opposite. Being offensive is saying that yes, we want to put in some good tools that will allow us to replace these buses long before it's been 4.3 years, on which the companies themselves say they can do it. Then I have to go back a little bit. Yes, I would love to stand here, councillor, and be a great optimist, and we thought we could be the last time with the previous councillor, but that was the result. The whole reason for the majority parties not to vote in favour of the proposal at the time was that one had to finish and get the report from SINTEF, and so the report from SINTEF said that the cost of doing this was higher than the accident costs. I was in debate with State Secretary Geir Pollestad in the previous period, where this was one of the main arguments – when the report came – for why not the government would follow this up. So to what Freddy de Ruiter's representative says, "I'm very pleased that he's now making a confession about this." But the whole argument for not having solved this is a report that the government ordered, that was kept secret, that it took a long time before it was published, and before it came. That was why we're there today, that we're as short, or as far, as we were after the report came in June 2008. So someone says we can't cancel the tenders that are. We are not going to cancel any tenders, but we should make sure that money is made available so that all children have a seatbelt and that all children have a seatbelt. I will promise: there are no bus companies that will refuse to get more money to transport the children safely and safely to and from school. All those in the industry who were at the hearing in the Transport Committee were clear that, of course, if they get the money to do so, they do it with pleasure. That is why I do not understand the debate that we have here today. I would like to be happy and satisfied – the government council and others from the government parties – but, unfortunately, history shows that concrete action is not being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2098	When you're talking about engagement for five, six and seven years in this case, at least I can sign that I've had an involvement in this case that goes far beyond that. I can sign that I've had an engagement to discuss this with different governments, and I've discussed it with different parties. I've attended school bus conferences that we've had in the North Trøndelag, where state secretaries, for example. from the left, has set up and told us that it is completely inappropriate to impose a directive on seat belts in school buses. So I think maybe we should be a little bit careful about attacking each other. I've been sitting on the Stortinget since October, and this is a matter that I've had a lot of commitment to and talked about, and that the fraction has had a lot of commitment to and talk about. We work our way, because there's a difference between how the position and the opposition work – everyone sitting here in this room knows – and then I think it might be a little petty to try to use this important thing to create a distorted view of how reality actually is. We all agree that we have no children to lose. We all agree that we should have seat belts and not least seats for the school children. Then you have to respect that you work in different ways. And it has to be possible to demand that both the Council of State and the Government fraction are actually believed when we say that yes, we have the objective that everyone should have a seat and seat belt, and we have the objective that this should happen as quickly as possible. But we're doing it a little bit differently. We are not voting in favour of the proposal for a representative, because my experience suggests that there may be different ways of doing this, both in terms of the regulations and the type of legislation to be amended and in terms of the means to be used. But it has to be done so neatly and fairly that you admit what I started my previous post with, that there is cross-political agreement that we're going to have seats and seat belts for the school children. There's cross-political agreement that we're going to do this as soon as we can. We just disagree a little bit about the method. We disagree a little about whether it is right to vote in favour of one of the many motions for resolutions of the Progress Party 8. As regards the range of Document 8 proposals under the umbrella ‘traffic safety’, and as regards the range of proposals considered to be related to road safety, including: setting the speed limits, lowering the pressure police, selling alcohol at refuelling stations, it is not certain that the sum will be good for road safety. But we're going to have seat belts in place, and we're going to have seats for the schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2114	With the last examples, the innocency peaked. We're going to be allowed to come back to that, maybe, in one case or two a little later. Now let's agree that we're all very impatient. One of those who are also very impatient is, in fact, the Children's Ombudsman, who has commented on this as some somewhat contemptuously speaking as a proposal for a representative. The Children's Ombudsman says: ‘This is the third time that the proposal to treat children in the same way as adults in terms of road safety is up, and this is the third time that we – i.e. the Children’s Ombudsman – propose to support this proposal. I hope now that it will be the last time, although of course it is always nice to meet the members of the committee." So there's an opinion from May 5th this year. This matter is actually about treating children differently from adults. It is about age discrimination – it is an expression that the child’s representative himself uses. Unfortunately, it is not unknown. I have had the pleasure of sitting for four years and working with education, and it is still the case that the working environment for schoolchildren has a completely different and much worse security than the working environment for adults. It is also the case in traffic safety, unfortunately, that the Children’s Ombudsman points out, that we establish ‘double standards’. Finally, I quote again a small section from the Children's Ombudsman's statement: ‘The Children’s Ombudsman has long been concerned about how easy it is for us to establish double standards — something that applies to children, something quite different for adults. The issue we are discussing today’ – and we are doing so here in Stortinget today as well – ‘is one of the most serious examples of discrimination – with open eyes. And I mean in fact” – still the Children’s Ombudsman says it – “on behalf of all the children who are exposed to this – that it is a betrayal. In its comments to Norway, the UN Committee of Experts has pointed out the need to step up efforts to combat age discrimination. The size should be able to begin with this case, for this is age discrimination.’ Let this be the last thing from me and from us. I want to remind you again that we are in a hurry. We must not return to Stortinget in two years' time to find that nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2138	I will start by thanking you for this debate and also for the recordings that have come both in the setting and in the process here, and which it is important to include in the further work. So I just have to make it absolutely clear that I am not disclaiming any liability for this government period. I could, quite the contrary, have gone through carefully and showed how Liv Signe Navarsete actually followed up from the debate she was having on this topic, among other things. to the county councils by letter of 10 July, where she asked them to find wise and good solutions locally to secure schoolchildren both on the way to the bus, at the bus stop and during the bus tour. The Ministry considered that, as a minimum, the county authorities planned future cloud provision on the basis of the availability of seating space for all school students. Then Anders Anundsen was embarrassed with regard to this matter. There's too many people to feel a dull taste in their mouths. What we're discussing is how to ensure safe schoolwork in the best possible way. It takes seriousness, and it's probably more constructive to discuss how we can contribute each other in our own way, in respect of each other and in respect of the processes that actually have to go, if we're going to do this through the law. So that's how all of us who have shared in this debate today are members of the party that are represented in the respective county councils. It might be a matter of – as a little control question from each one of us while we are impatiently waiting to finish a work that we all think should be completed – to ask what has been done. Nordland and Nord-Trøndelag are a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2149	And Finnmark!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2154	Okay. Maybe it could go on, with a common commitment to our respective game the next time we meet on this theme, to show the same seriousness and the same commitment also in the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2159	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late, and the meeting is cancelled. [[See page 3962]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2193	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2202	The issue of an external independent investigation into the rail link from the South Varanger/Churches to the Russian railway network that we are dealing with today is of the utmost importance for national interests in the north in an infrastructure context, but not least as an important contribution to a national effort to develop the northern regions and cooperate with Russia, which is of particular importance to Norway. The issue is not least important for South Varanger and East Finland, a region that has experienced a 25-pst relocation during the last 40 years, and changing governments. It is therefore of the utmost importance that our National Assembly actually take over and understand that if it is that the northern regions are a particularly important national bet area, then Norwegian sovereignty and presence in the north are of the greatest importance. The best way to exercise Norwegian sovereignty is through the permanent settlement and positive development of our communities. It seems that the Committee agrees to this, but there is also an end to the consensus. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party support such an investigation, while the government parties oppose an investigation and believe that the general review of the infrastructure undertaken by the government in the north is in keeping with this proposal. It should not be so difficult for anyone to understand, if you want, what a general review of the infrastructure needs in the north implies in relation to the proposal we are dealing with today, about a separate defined and concrete investigation of a railway between South Varanger and the entire Russian railway network. With regard to the investigative work that the government wants to do, including the railways, which can be made possible once in the 2020s, a project to build up during the twinning cooperation between Kirkenes/Sør-Varanger and Nikel/Pechenga – ergo, a border cooperation between border municipalities, not a word about a interconnection with the other Russian railway network. In this case, I feel that the government is once again training this project indefinitely, and is postponing it far into the future. It is also beyond any doubt that such a project will have to have a cost-benefit effect, i.e. that Russian business, such as Lukeoil, Severstal and Norilsk Nickel become users of a proposed freight outsourcing from South Varanger. The size, if any, of today, if it follows the position of the government parties, is, as I said, to postpone the entire railway project indefinitely, while narrowing the framework for future projects. At a time when the divisional problem seems to be getting a solution, where Norway and Russia have joint marine exercises, and the cooperation between the two countries is good, the government parties put their feet down, go into full stop, and postpone the whole project. If you look at the comments, perhaps the most important thing is not the need of the government parties for a railway to Russia. Instead, there will be a dilettant debate on the use of words. Are the northern regions a very important strategic area for Norway, or are the northern areas the main area of foreign policy? This makes the debate – and the treatment, as I see it – unworthy and unreflected. The red-greens who claim that the northern regions are the most important national bet area are therefore equally in favour of the whole proposal. Truly there is a long way between life and doctrine and word and action, in today's government. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2226	I have to admit that sometimes when I hear the representatives of Fredriksen's descriptions of the government, and so on, he reminds me a little of Hamsun in his darkest. I want to make a Hamsun quotation that I think fits very well: «And so it is: the mere grace that you get life is the rich advance payment for all the misery of life, each and every one. You shall not believe that you have the right to sugar ketchup more than you receive." It's from the book "A Wanderer Plays With Sordin", and it's Hamsun at his best – and also as we often experience the representative Fredriksen, so on this matter as well. An investigation of the route between Nikel and Kirkenes is a good proposal, and that's why the government is already conducting the investigation. I share the description given by Fredriksen, but I cannot at all understand his assertions that there is a full stop in this matter, when the government certainly launched that investigation in good time before Fredriksen made a proposal on the same in Stortinget. But we're not just paying attention to it, we're going to address the full infrastructure needs in the north, considering both the track, the road, the boat and the aircraft. The Committee was well-intentioned to demonstrate four good rail projects in Northern Norway when we were on our committee tour. It was Nikel–Kirkenes, it was Rovaniemi–Kirkenes, it was Kolari–Skibotn, and it was Narvik–Tromsø. We got a description of all four sections of the track. Then it is wrong to pick out one path and only look at that distance. We have to have an overall approach to all of these sections. That's good reason for everyone. Everyone will be important to business. Kolari-Skibotn or Rovaniemi-Churches are also important in order to link the Baltic Sea closer with the major ports and coasts along the Barents Sea. A orbit will be important for the construction that we see of a path through Sweden and down to the continent, which, at least if the red-greens have the power to the harvest, will mean shooting in 70 billion kroner, and you'll get a red-green transporter from Luleå in the north and down to the continent. That's why we can't figure out one distance alone. This does not mean that there is no ‘stop’ – on the contrary, we have started an important work. If we're going to bet on the north, if we're going to have growth in the north, if we're going to have development in the north, if we're going to have good communication solutions and good infrastructure solutions, then we're going to have to see everything together. Not least, the possibility of opening the north-east pass will be important in this picture. What kind of port structure are we going to have? And how are we going to solve the transport challenge that it might create? So Fredriksen's word that this is a stop is completely wrong. We started it long before Document No. The 8-proposal was promoted in Stortinget. It is not an immaterial disagreement, on which Fredriksen tried when it came to the formulation of the status of the northern regions. This government has made a clear priority. The red-green government says that the northern regions are the strategic most important area of foreign policy. This means that we look at the consensus in terms of the dividing line, we look at the geopolitical status of the northern regions, and we look at the resource situation in the northern regions as the most important thing for this government to give priority to foreign policy. That is why we have also implemented such solutions as the split-line agreement. It's not an immaterial squabbling with words. We notice that the opposition is not involved in this formulation. But I think it's very good, I think it's good that we've finally received a white response that the opposition doesn't think that the development of the northern regions is the most important in terms of foreign policy efforts. Finally, I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2250	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2253	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten speaks of a ‘red-green transporter’. I think maybe that's the first time I hear it, and I'm a little bit unsure about the definition of that expression. But if something is going to be good, there's nothing wrong with it. The proposal that the Progress Party has made here, by rail from the Churches and towards our neighbour in the East, is an exciting project. If we go back a few years, it would be quite unimaginable for me to stand on this pulpit and speak for it, for it was so during the cold war that the worst that could happen between the countries behind the Iron Curtain and our part of the world was a railway, for it could carry so much people and material in a short time, and was the greatest threat. We don't have that idea anymore. Now we might also have to remember a little bit of the story. The Russians have been to the churches once before, without them coming with troops to occupy Norway, so I don't think that threat is very dangerous anymore. I think it is very nice that we have such a good relationship with our neighbor in the east. Our neighbour in the east is in many respects in need of an ice-free port, and is there something in the wind today when it comes to transport issues, is the common terminal for rail and boat. It will be possible to get into the Kirkenes. Now it is not just easy for Norway to start with such a transport year – whether it becomes red-green or what it becomes – but at least it is a symbol act against the Russians, our neighbours in the east, if we go in for such an investigation. Whether to go to Nikel, as Anne Marit Bjørnfacen talked about, is probably somewhat uncertain. It's going to be a detour, and I guess that path won't be completely up-to-date either. But it is now up to the investigators, and that is why we support the proposal that it be investigated. When referring to all the other projects, by rail in Finnmark between Finland and Sweden and Norway, it is a correct observation that we received many proposals for projects when we were on our tour in Finnmark. I see enough that this project is a little bit different, really, because this is a direct line east and is going to serve a different type of activity than the four others, maybe, so I don't see the context, even though we've commented on it in our comments on the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2266	I thought that Fredriksen and the Progress Party were genuinely interested in getting a railway in place against Russia. But after listening to this post, I understand that it is primarily the Progress Party that is supposed to have images in newspapers because the government has gone against something that the Progress Party has proposed today. That, I think, is a bad strategy, if you want to do something about the railway link with Russia. I would like to ask Fredriksen to come back and say something about it later in the debate – whether that is what is meant, or whether it is the matter that is most important. The article suggests that the most important thing is not, and I'm sorry. I have worked on this myself for approx. ten years, because I want to get to that connection. I have done so, among other things. through conversations in Murmansk and in North-West Russia, I have looked at the plans that are leading the Church and in South Varanger, which I think look very good. But I understand that actually I can just forget all of this, because it's just a strategy that applies, and that's the Progress Party has pointed out. I thought that both the Christian People's Party and the Right should say why they are involved – after listening to the article from Frederiksen. In particular, I challenge the leadership of the committee at this point. Many of us – not only we who work with the Nordic countries, but also those who work with foreign policy issues related to Russia – see that this is not something we do by pinching. When we have tried to do this before, we have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Russians are not interested in this. So we've listened to the Russians up in Murmansk, which says, well, we're interested in this, but then we get a different signal from Moscow. Then the question is, is it wise to have an independent Norwegian statement? Or, is it more constructive to try to get a diplomacy started when this is the case, as with the divider line, so that one avoids spending 40 years on it, as we had to with the divider line? I think that those who want to support the proposal that is being put forward today should think about it. What we have been told by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that the Russians do not want to. Then we have to be clear about it first, and it is also a advice I gave to Fredriksen during the treatment of this matter. I think it would have been wise to get clear signals from Russian authorities and Norwegian authorities, considering whether this is interesting. Therefore, the wording of the government party as it is is, because we are in the process of North-Area action – we are in the process of looking at different things in the North. But I think we have to go the diplomatic road. Everything is actually right for it now, because this week we have actually had joint defence exercises in Norway; the Russians have been in Norwegian territorial waters and practiced with Norwegian forces. We have the Shtokman field, where there are commitment agreements, we have the dividing line, which is solved, and we have other things going on in the north through the Barents Council and through activities, among others. in Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, the Norwegian company is in. Actually, we have a very good starting point for moving on, but then you don't have to walk into a corner and say, "If you don't do what I want to do, this won't happen!" If we vote against a proposal that I think might be complicated for the whole thing, if we vote against it, then we are against the railway against Russia – that seems to me to be a way of arguing that is very sad and bad for the cause. If Fredriksen wants a rail connection with Russia, and if he wants to cooperate with Russia on this, he has to change his style quite differently from that of the Progress Party's toll rhetoric. For the SV's part and for the government's part, we do not find that there is any contradiction at all between the proposal from the Progress Party and our proposal. But after listening to the post from Fredriksen, we understand that we're wrong, because they're busy only by one thing, simply by highlighting that the proposal that has multiples today is the only one that's valid. I would ask people to think, and perhaps also from the Christian People's Party and the Right's side think about whether they should not support the proposals of the government parties either, on the basis that one must work diplomatically to get to a railway towards Russia. There's an SV and the government part in the long run, not just a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2283	The President does not ask the representative of Langeland to ask other representatives to consider. I think that's in the frontier zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2286	I have to think of myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2291	It could be a good start, Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2294	I was actually going to take the floor to say that I was very pleased that the Progress Party was so busy with the railways in North Norway. But after hearing the comments of the representative Fredriksen, I have to say that I was quite concerned. It is rare for me to be so clearly reminded that life is sometimes a big theater, and that sometimes this hall acts as a theater, as when I heard the representative Fredriksen. If it's the case that the Progress Party is committed to getting to a railway between Kirkenes and Murmansk, it should be in the middle of the flash that you're already running a transport investigation for the north areas – because that's exactly what you are. I was very surprised, and I was really very disappointed. I think it's very important that we now stand united about the investigation that's going on, both because there are many people who want a project in terms of rail, and there are many who want a project in terms of sea. We have a lot of challenges, and we have huge opportunities in the north. Then there is a need for a comprehensive strategy. This is not about a strategy that you should spend a long time getting ready. The first part is finished until the harvest, and the next part comes to the spring. There's a short time left, and it's important that we see things as a whole. When we were on a committee tour in North Norway, I was reminded of how important it is that we can stand together on something. There were four projects – as the representative Bjørnflaten recalled – that were presented the days we were there, and we have not yet visited Nordland. I know that there are also projects that are wanted marked. The more important it is, in fact, to remind ourselves and the part of the country that a strategy should be put together if we are to achieve it. Then to Fredriksen and the Advancement Party: I really ask you to mind. And think! If you want a railway, you also want an investigation that we get back and that we can have opinions about in terms of rolling out the national transport plan, if not for a long time. We're going to have to put the railway in place. I'm in favour of this route, I'm in favour of rail in North Norway, and I'm in favour of doing things between countries and between parts of the country. It needs North Norway, not least because the possibilities are just in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2308	Then the president will remember two things. Firstly, all speeches must be addressed to the President and not directly to the representatives. Secondly, the president still believes that asking others to think at least is in a grey zone. The President hopes it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2313	‘Gray Zone’ is a transfiguration that is now on its way out, after the government has succeeded in negotiating in the north. Then it might be good to use it here in this hall. I want to give tribute to Jan-Henrik Fredriksen for the proposal, which I feel is very constructive. We have commented several times today that we have had a very exciting committee trip in Finnmark and Troms. Just different options when it comes to trains were some of the things that it was traveling about, and we got more options that were very exciting. I mean, there's a need to get some distributions in place. I was particularly challenged by the representative Langeland, who also said in his post that he initially did not see any contradiction between what the government party has put in, and what Fredriksen brought here. That is the starting point of the Christian People's Party. We see that the government party is occupied with the distributions in this field. The same is true of the proposal of the Progress Party, which we see as constructive. It can give us more information, so that we can give priority to the different options in North Norway that we have to decide on. That's why I'm in favour of an independent distribution in this area, also in other areas. I don't think it needs to be a contradiction between getting good deals in place in this area and doing diplomatic work. I just think that ensuring our quality in the distributions will be a great advantage for the important work that the U.D. is going to do. I just want to point out what the representative Myraune said, that this would have been unmistakable only for a few decades. It opens possibilities in the north that are much larger. I have from this pulpit given the government the honour of the agreement that we have made when we owe it to the son-in-law we have had. It shows that we can take new steps, and I feel that this is what the government wants with their plans. It was commented that this could have been a theater, but I must say that it also applies to the government party. I feel that here we have a constructive proposal. It is the Christian People's Party to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2330	A special assignment on north-eastern areas was sent to transport modes earlier this year, and it is also part of Guideline 1 for its work on national transport plans 2014-2023. The first stage of distribution shall provide potential development pathways and developments in the north which play a role in transport needs and infrastructure. The distribution shall be a professional input into the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The first part of the distribution work is scheduled to be completed during 2010 and the second part during the first half of 2011. The need for better infrastructure between Kirkenes/South Varanger and Nikel/Pechenga will be part of the distribution work. In connection with this work, dialogue has been established between the Ministry of Transport and Russian Transport Administration. For those who want to study this issue in more detail, it is on the Internet and is on nine pages. I see that the committee has already been in there, and I want to get the quote for the setting. Work has been undertaken to evaluate both national roads, rail, ports/sea transport and aviation. The transport system shall be assessed from a north-eastern perspective, which requires the emphasis to be placed on international cross-border transport and on transport corridors. Then the investment project becomes to evaluate in the ordinary planning work. However, in these two main sections, it is important to highlight both the first part, which relates to the development pathways and trends that will soon be completed, and the second part, where demographic development and industrial development in northern parts of Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia are to be considered. Here, then, the representation of other countries is to be withdrawn, especially when you look at the development of other countries' industries. Estates themselves have the ability to go further and further in detail. All I said now is for the first part, but in the second part, evolution is actually from a 30-year perspective. Cooperation with national transport administrations in Sweden, Finland and Russia is particularly underlined, both in terms of existing plans and cross-border infrastructure and other potential projects. What is also worth dwelling on is the way it works, because there are supposed to be consultations, broad meetings – they have already started, so that businesses, people, different interests, are invited into this work. Of course, it is an advantage to use established cooperation forums, for example. the Norwegian-Russian working group that elaborated input into the national transport plan in which we are now five months inside. So I see it this way, as I have also notified the Committee, that this proposal will be taken care of today in the further work. But I think we're all going to care about the commitment that is to strengthen the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2352	Seen with my eyes, I wish we'd put that drawer in the ground years ago to put a railway in place for Russia. The letter from the Department says that there is a work going on to get it into the NTP for 2014-2023. When does the Council of State see that practical action can begin to build a railway from South Varanger and connect it to the Russian railway network – in practical action?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2359	Here, my answer is that the first part of the northern region that is notified is starting. We see this work in two parts. The second part will be completed in the first half of 2011. Then we know much more about what can be realistic progress. In addition, work will be carried out on what will be a priority in the national transport plan. The major debate on the revision of the National Transport Plan comes in spring 2013. Then we're going to put forward a new big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2364	We know that there are now several very exciting railway projects in North Norway. They are missing in part, and one suggests it in the national transport plan in 2013. What will be important is that this distribution work takes place so quickly that the region also has the possibility of prioritising, that that priority may be completed before the national transport plan, and that the department will have the opportunity to conclude in good time, of course. Is that the timetable you set? When will this distribution work be clear, so that the region too can become a priority? We were traveling now, and lack of priority characterizes many regions, including North Norway when it comes to the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2371	I think this is an important question to be involved in further work – the fact that the region itself is given the opportunity to clarify. I think that if we keep a progress towards the completion of the two distributions in the first half of 2011, and the government is going to draw up its proposal afterwards, as the basis for the 2013 Storing Message, one of the milestones here must clearly ensure that the region has the opportunity to prioritize, before the government concludes and submits its basis for treatment for the Stortinget, and after a timetable that will allow the Stortinget to be treated in the spring of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2376	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2381	Infrastructure measures take people and create debates and commitment. That shows the debate so far in here. However, infrastructure measures are important for social development — from the small area to regions that extend across national borders. The representative proposal we are now discussing belongs to the last category. We see that there is an increasing activity between countries in the north — and perhaps especially between Norway and Russia. I deliberately use the term ‘countries in the north’, because, in my view, the need for infrastructure should also include our two neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland. Through increased activity, new needs arise for new solutions or the use of existing infrastructure. The railway is such an example, and it is not difficult to agree with the intention of the proposal we are now considering. But as speakers before me have been present, the government is committed to seeing infrastructure measures in the northern regions in a context. We also see from the letter from the department that this matter has been dealt with several times, also in this room, but we are still investigating. Why don't you get on with it? It may be a relevant question to ask. I don't have any good answers, but as far as I know, I think we have some political challenges that extend far within the walls of the Kremlin, which we also see from the attached letter from the regional Duma. I therefore interpret it this way, as the representative of Langeland was in the house, and I am not sure that the Russian federal authorities are as excited about a connection to the railway network as many of us are. This is why it is important to focus on what we can do about it, and the most important document in that context is the National Transport Plan. It describes many measures that it is important to put in place in the north. I'm going to mention three of them, and I guess no one is surprised that I mention the term E6, but I can't get any more into the challenges of that matter in this round. The road between E6 and Storfoss is also an important way to get in place, and fortunately there is a lot of work going on. At the same time, we also record that the road and infrastructure on the Russian side are becoming very good, and it is also interesting to note that there is very good cooperation between Russian road authorities and Norwegian road authorities. I would also like to mention the airport in Kirkenes that it is important to do something about, so that you can make the best use of the entire airport to make good transport solutions. I would like to reiterate that we are not opposed to the intention of the proposal, but that the offer we are now considering must be seen in a larger context, as it is added to the already ongoing North Region investigation. Unlike Fredriksen, I am one of many who see the results of the government's northern policy every day when I move around in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2407	I'm not going to say anything about what the representative Bjørnflaten reminds me of from the pulpit, or other representatives. Then I would like to thank Hallgeir Langeland for his heartfelt concern for the Advancement Party, which he has had with him throughout the evening. I'm sure it comes from the bottom of the heart. What you quickly forget about the matter we are discussing is, in fact, that the case has a lot of local support in Finnmark. Both LO and NHO support it, the county supports it, the municipality of South Varanger supports it, the Barents Secretariat and the Church's Nutritional Garden support it – all in Finnmark agree that we must get a railway to Russia in place. Then you ask what you mean on the Russian side. On the Russian side, we read that Russian business is positive to a railway, and we also see articles printed in the Russian economic newspaper Rossiyskaya Biznes-Gazeta show a great interest in such a solution, and where the head of the Federal Agency for Maritime and River Transport, Alexander Davidenko, advocates such a solution – a solution that will not only promote Norwegian interests, but will clearly also promote Russian business interests. So many ask me why you should be so hard and be perceived as so square from this pulpit. Well, in the years that I've been on Stortinget, I've always heard that the government parties have stated that the northern regions are their largest bet area. But the same government has also voted in favour of relocating the North-West Russia Fund for 180 million. kr from Oslo to Kirkenes, has voted in favour of allowing oil transhipment in Bøkfjorden – where an industrial pilot project was rejected – a cooperation between US, Russian and Norwegian actors to a value of 6.4 billion. kr. Only Snow White and Goliath have been bigger as an industrial project in Finnmark. Today, we have probably one thing on the rail to Russia table, while the government is turning its thumb down on any proposal that will promote significant growth, provide jobs and have synergies for the whole of East Finland. I want to remember what I started my post with earlier: in the last 40 years we've had 25 pst. relocation in East Finland. It's important to have a population in place if you want sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2423	The representative Fredriksen was busy that I was concerned about the Progress Party. I'm not at all. I think the Progress Party lives in the best of luck, but I was busy whether the Progress Party was interested in getting something else, and there is something quite different. Would you like a result of the policy you are pursuing, or would you just like to protest in the policy? Then I sometimes see that some times the Progress Party will also like to have some results, and then try to contribute to a constructive dialogue to get to that result. It has been my starting point in this matter all the way in the ten-twelve years I have worked on this, and I have not come any special way, because of anything else. the conflict between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia and Norway and the discrepancy between the level of cooperation. That's what's my starting point, that we're going to get a railway bet in the North and South Varanger, we have to get some grips that make this possible. Then it's not easy to distinguish everyone else because they don't choose the solution you have, but then it's going into a dialogue with the others to find a solution that makes one actually get it. That's what I'm inviting you to continue. So let's see if the Progress Party chooses a partisan, or if they agree to find a solution to an important issue for the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3963]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2444	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2453	This matter we are dealing with today is about putting in place concrete targets for what is good, with sanctions and supervision. The Committee has been consulted on the matter. Most of the relevant road safety and safety organisations on our road network met at the hearing. The Road Traffic Information Council, which forms an umbrella organisation for these, was also present. They referred to their documents, they called the People's Road Requirements, and a proposal on functional requirements for the road system, which they have developed. Funny enough, they showed that Magnus Lagbøte already had promises for what should be a good path, and rather strict restrictions and penalties if one did not keep the road on the standard that he had defined. But now we're in 2010. The background to this proposal and to the concerns of these organisations is that road quality is getting worse, despite, I would say, a more general perception, including among us politicians, that the maintenance system has grown too much over many years. It is such that the State Road Service Action Programme for the next four years does not actually improve road quality. Although it has later been refuted that it is not as wrong as it might seem in the first place, at least it will not be better in the future. There is still a large category of poor roads and an increasing category of very poor roads. In the right we believe that this document No. The 8 proposal is welcome. We believe that defined and mandatory requirements for existing roads can be an important tool for improving Norwegian roads and will reduce the number of accidents. The majority, together with the Right, therefore also believe that the achievement of the objectives of the stage objectives of the national transport plan should be based on precise and quantifiable indicators. Target structure and indicators should be objective and non-political instruments. A level of ambition should be indicated for each indicator in the national transport plan. We therefore believe that a determination of the level of ambition should be considered in the context of the framework for marginal assessments. It would also be appropriate to assess the state of Norwegian roads more frequently than every four years. This should be done by reporting on target achievement according to the indicators set. The majority of the Committee supports this position, which calls for the development of ‘simple quantifiable and temporal objectives linked to Norwegian transport policy’. That is what is being proposed. The right has also advocated the establishment of ‘an independent public roadside supervision, with supervisory authority vis-à-vis both road, car and road users’. This is an important point in our alternative transport plan. The Party has a proposal to pool all the supervisory authorities in the transport sector in a single supervisory framework. We think it's too poorly investigated, so we don't want to join. We believe in the independent supervisory institutes, but we lack one for road, vehicle and road users. I will be allowed to take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2476	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2479	I'll take a short version. I am promoting the two proposals of the Progress Party and I am referring to them. They have full comments, and there's no reason to repeat them. But the proposals are quite clear on what the Progress Party wants. Proposal 2: ‘The government is asked to develop and implement concrete objectives for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for it. the route of origin and the route of the county in the form of a minimum standard. The size assumes that the roads are regularly measured by the supervisory authority. standard laid down and penalties imposed for breaches of requirements.’;» Proposal 3: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State Transport Authority responsible for supervising and controlling all transport by road, rail, aviation and maritime transport. The Transport Authority shall submit an annual report to the Stortinget on the achievement of the objectives of Norwegian transport. The size assumes that such reporting is based on concrete objectives and minimum standards for all transport sectors and that supervision is provided with concrete means of sanction.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2496	The National Transport Plan 2010–2019 is based on a target structure, which the representatives also describe in their document 8:86 S for 2009–2010. The aim of the target structure is to better identify what is achieved by policy and to provide a better basis for balancing policy objectives. The transport policy objectives shall lead to the work of the department on the action programmes and the follow-up to the national transport plan in the annual budgets. This target structure is not complete in the sense that it expresses all policy objectives relating to the transport sector. Government parties believe it is right to limit the number of targets to politically focused areas to a slightly overall level. There will be a number of areas not mentioned in the target structure, which are nevertheless important to ensure that policy objectives and priorities are achieved. Government parties agree with the target structure which contains four main objectives related to the areas of accessibility and regional development, transport safety, environment and universal design. Under each of the main objectives, stage objectives are formulated that concreteise them and show which areas the government will focus on during the planning period. It will be natural, I believe, that concrete balances between the different objectives are being made as part of rolling out the national transport plan. In this context, reference is made to St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, under Chapter. 5 Objectives and main priorities, which state that ‘Government will give particular priority during the planning period to improve road safety, improve accessibility and reduce distance costs’. In this context, indicators have been developed to measure the progress made in the follow-up to the stage objectives. In order to illustrate what is expected to be achieved by the proposed investment, estimates have been made for each indicator showing expected performance during the planning period, including: curtailment of travel time and some other projects showing how it evolves in relation to regional affiliation and travel time gains. Now the national transport plan is to be rolled. A letter about that work has been sent out. The transport modes and Avinor shall, in the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, be based on the target structure of the current transport plan and they shall also be invited to report back on the need for changes in the target structure. In this context, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will define the final target structure in the work on the draft plan. I have great faith that the procedure outlined here is the right one in view of the work to be done. This does not mean that government parties do not see that there may be a need to discuss other types of goals, but we think it is wise to do so as part of the roll-out of the national transport plan. For the issue of the possible establishment of a cross-sectoral transport supervision, I would like to point out that the government will inform about the further process of the 2011 budget of the Ministry of Transport. Against this background, the Government considers it right to reject the proposals made by the proposers and therefore recommends that Document 8:86 S be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2517	The Christian People's Party agrees with the decision that we need to develop simple, quantifiable and time-consuming objectives related to Norwegian transport policy. I thought the case spokesperson did very well for the matter, and I will not go further into the technical parts there. But I have to say that when I saw the TV2 news on 10 May 2010, I wondered if Per Olaf Lundtägen also wanted to be in favour of this proposal. For we can therefore read that ‘SP-top means the road standard is a great shame’, and that ‘the centre party Per Olaf Lundtigen is critical of the movement of the red-green government’. ‘There is too little money to maintain and upgrade roads in Norway. It's a great shame and there's something the red-green government has to see to do with it," says Lundtegen." And... «Touring the municipality of Flesberg in Buskerud, the car hits Per Olaf Lundteigen on the gravel deck, and local politician Oddvar Garås warns against driving too fast on the bad roads. [[Sp]] – You have to drive for 15 to 20 km an hour to reach the mountain,” says Garås. I agree with the description of Lundtigen and Garås and therefore believe that getting qualitative standards is important. I also want to make a brief comment on what is going on overseeing, which was also discussed by the case officer. In the air, we have an aviation station, but we also have an air traffic control. When it comes to our trains, we have a railway station that works and is on, but we also have a railway supervision. On the other hand, there is no independent supervision on the accident route. Here are the municipalities, the county and the state road authority that are responsible, and the veggiegar, the state road authority, is control authority. It shouldn't be like that. The selection that was assigned to look at this has said with a lot of people that we need independent supervision. In this case, in the response of the Council of State, it appeared that one would be briefing on the process of the 2011 State budget. That's what I think is good. But it's one thing it's important to have a click on. So it was in February 2009 this selection concluded so clearly. This applies to security, and therefore I think this is a matter the government absolutely should give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2538	Let me link some comments to the debate so far. First of all, it is well known that this government has an ambitious national transport plan, which we are five months inside now, and which for a ten-year period will amount to 100 billion. kr to road, track, port and fairway. And that's also how we have increased the permissions for maintenance from 6 billion to 9 billion. NOK, and we've increased the level of licenses for transportation by 9 billion. kr. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on numbers, but it's important to remember that there is an commitment both to strengthen the maintenance of our existing road network and to secure more new ways. It is also the case that there are reports that we are now looking at in what way we can follow up, for example. the Dovre Group, which advises on how we can get even more maintenance for the money. I think that's right over here. Then in my letter I have responded to the target structure, the main objectives on which the national transport plan is based. I refer to the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås, who went through more thoroughly what is at stake today. In the roll-out of the National Transport Plan, we have asked the ETAs to look at the target structure, whether there is a need to adjust, possibly developed, new stage targets and indicators. There are currently 38 different indicators in the national transport plan to see how far we are going in the follow-up to the target. I think there's something else in the committee that will govern it for the planning period. I don't think anyone wants us to go after 38 goals. It's a little bit of a manageable and very complicated system. However, the indicators are a tool to show whether developments are moving in the right direction, and we have them today. In our second set of guidelines, which we intend to send out in March next year, we will define the target structures to be used by the etatians and Avinor in their work on the plan proposal, and we will also look at whether it is desirable to develop more quantified targets than the one we have on road safety today. When it comes to the issue of own roadside supervision, I record that the penalty there is a sign against it. It will be assessed more closely in the context of the 2011 budget. But I find reason to stress that it is not that there are totally illegal conditions in the road sector today. It's not like there's someone who doesn't follow the quality of the roads. On the contrary, we have a well-developed system in the State Road Administration, one of which has regional offices and regional actors on the roads, as well as functional contracts that have been concluded, such as maintenance and follow-up there. These contracts are somewhat different, but I have said this before in this room – and I find reason to stress it again – that if an accident occurs, it is in addition to the fact that police and ambulances and other agencies in place, usually always the State Road Service early out and see if there is anything about the road that has contributed to the accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2555	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2558	To this end, with supervision: it is that when we have a well-functioning railway supervision and a well-functioning aviation oversight, it is in order to prevent accidents. So it's to verify that those with operational responsibilities actually follow the guidelines and objectives, requirements and specifications that have been set. It works well within the Railway Agency and within aviation. What is the advantage of having a different supervisory model in the road sector, where we actually have the vast majority of transport accidents? What is the advantage of having a different model in the road sector, where the trade union itself supervises its own business? What is the benefit for road users of that kind of supervision, which I don't think any of us would think about introducing in the field of aviation, and in the case of railway activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2563	In fact, I think these different transport years are very different. It's the one. The second is that the State Road Service also has the task of complying with the prevention and prevention of accidents. So this selection divided into multiples and a minority. They provide e.g. issues of the right use of resources to set up own supervision in the road sector, since, in spite of all of this, there are at least parts of them in place today. We have not concluded. There's someone who thinks we've pre-concluded, so it's not. So I'm going to be allowed to come back to this in the state budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2575	I also want to ask about the supervision, because it's like that, for example. The Railway Authority also has the supervisory authority over all rail transport operations, not only the activities of the Railway Agency, but also the urban railway and the T-Bahn, etc. For example, the Air Safety Authority has: also approval schemes for schools, training and flight schedules. But what the council doesn't seem to understand -- I think she understands that, but she's missing it a little bit -- is that on the way, it's the abdominal and oat sacking principle that's being practiced. I think we can be pretty open on that. The road authorities even have a very strict regulatory authority with cars and road users, but they do not have it on the road for which they are responsible. Now the county councils have got 18 000 km more to be held responsible for. Does the Council of State think that is reasonable enough for us to have independent supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2584	I understand that the majority in the committee, if not in the room, want a pre-conclusion. I'm not going to give you that. But I could have thought of asking a counter-question, for what are the most important challenges in the way? Is it supervision, or is it to ensure better maintenance, to ensure greater road safety and to use more means here to secure new roads and to ensure that road normals are down? I'm not so sure which representative Halleraker would give priority to here either. When it comes to the problem, there are probably several elements to improve road safety and road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2591	I am pleased with the answer given by the Council of State that one has not pre-defined when it comes to supervision. I'd like to ask the government to take the time to conclude wisely – a talking about independence. But my question relates to the center party's fiscal spokesman, who should be absolutely familiar with the roadside trajectories, but who nevertheless concludes that 'the road standard is a great shame'. I'm not going to take the whole quote again, but I want to say that there's too little money for maintenance and for cleaning up the roads in Norway. It's actually the presence form Lundtigen uses here. It's a big shame, and there's something the red-green government needs to see about. Is the Council of State united in Lundteigen's characteristics?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2600	Per Olaf Lundtägen has pointed to an example of a road standard that I would like to wish I could not find in today's Norway. At the same time, both Hareide and I are aware that there is a lag on maintenance that is important to get done with. Because of the government year after year, it has increased the permissions to maintain. If Lundtigen used the term "damage" by the way of the day, I'm a little uncertain as to what expression would be strong enough about the state of things a few years back. I hope that we will both be able to take the default back and improve, so that you can use the expression "sham" in the future. But it'll still take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2607	I note that the Council of State is very evasive when it comes to Per Olaf Lundtägen's characteristics of the Norwegian road network as shameful. We realize that there might be a need to calm down a little bit. But as far as roadside supervision is concerned, I want to challenge the Council of State, because she says that the State Road Administration already has the resources. Yes, there can be no major problem in setting up supervision, as the large part of the costs of setting up supervision are already paid. The Council of State must agree that there is no cost that is the cause of the unwillingness here; there are other things that make you unwilling to do so. Then I want to challenge the Council of State on another thing that is also important in this context. I've met some call-out personnel who are very concerned about some of the so-called road safety measures, because they have quite different consequences for those who are going to try to save lives and people and get patients transported to hospitals, and not least when they're also going to try to get out of an accident site. In view of some of those measures, will the Council of State take initiatives towards the Minister of Health to address the problems there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2616	The representative Hoksrud points to an important matter. In some cases, in some ways, you have an open for spin point and pass-by point, to have such a possibility. So it's like, on the one hand, it's an commitment to securing multiple kilometers of middle parts. I have also stood here and have been held responsible for the fact that it is too few kilometres. And we keep adding some more. So I think that on the individual road there will have to be a balance between the actions to be implemented – whether there are middle parts, whether there should be a space field or otherwise. Fortunately, there are very few accidents with expressive vehicles, despite the fact that they sometimes have problems getting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2625	Finally, I would like to return to the first part of the draft representative, i.e. what is contained in proposal No. 2, to obtain the minimum standard on the route and the route of the county. I am happy to register that the Ministry of Transport – and that must also mean the Council of State – at least partly agrees with us. On Wednesday we will deal with the municipal proposal for 2011. There is a signal from the Ministry of Transport that roadside guides are working on an overall assessment of the need for national guides for minimum standards under road laws and road traffic laws. So, it looks like there are clear signals that you want to make demands on the county road network after the counties have received this mild gift from the state. What are the opposites to having the minimum standard, as the Progress Party would like to have, also on the main road network in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2632	It is true today that there are certain requirements on which the tribal roads are built, and the requirements are assessed at any given time. When it comes to county roads, there is one particular dilemma that has emerged now, and that it would be an advantage for both county municipalities, road users, the Stortinget and the government to clarify more closely. It is the difficult challenges associated with bridges and tunnels. So these are enough questions that we'll come back to, both in budgetary terms and in the roll-out of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2639	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2644	I record that the Council of State would not answer at least two of the specific questions when it came to resource use. When we know that the State Road Service has – as the Council of State has been very clear about – a separate resource group that will both follow and follow up where there have been accidents, and have other types of tasks that would be completely natural for supervision, that means that costs are probably far from going to be as high as I know the Council of State answered a question in a Question Time – it was probably the last Wednesday or Wednesday before that again. So it's quite possible to take part of these grips and get proper supervision. The whole point of supervision is that you want to have it the way you want it, for example. has it on the aviation side. In the event of an accident involving an aeroplane type, the Air Safety Authority may place the aeroplanes on the ground and ensure that they do not receive aeroplanes until they have found out what has happened, why it has happened, and what to do to clean it up. If there is bad asphalt on the airport trip, it could mean closing the airport until you have cleared up the problems. But on the road side there are completely different conditions. There's a report, and then it's sent in, and then nothing happens anymore. That's one of the things that at least we in the Progress Party are very concerned about. We want that when you see things, when you discover things, it actually has to have a consequence. Something's going to happen. We want to take action and get rid of those problems, just as we do in the other transport areas. Then I register, as I said, that as far as Per Olaf Lundtägen is concerned, the Council of State was very unwilling to respond specifically to what she thought about his statements. But this isn't just Per Olaf Lundtigen thinks. This is definitely something that very many other politicians, including from the Central Party and government parties, are equally concerned about when you see how the state is on our road network. That's exactly why you need to have some concrete goals, so it's possible to follow up that things get fixed. The council chose not to answer, but I see the dilemma that the Council of State is addressing in the case of middle-parties, and part of that problem there – definitely. But I very often experience feedback from a caller, that they rarely hear anything from the State Road Service when it comes to getting ideas about how to do things better, which also makes the everyday life of those people who try to save human lives every single day better, by making sure they avoid some of the problems they have in their everyday lives when they're going to transport patients to hospitals, like driving over unlabeled speed dumps, or getting past other cars. That is why I still want to challenge the Council of State whether she will ensure that the Swedish Road Administration contacts the health authorities precisely to assess part of the issue when introducing new measures on road safety and other road measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2659	First of all, let me just make it clear that when it comes to supervision, there are multiples in the NOU, i.e. in the public distribution of supervision, which has said that if independent roadside supervision is to be created, it can be estimated at 50 to 100 people and maybe up to 100 million kroner. Therefore, there will be a balance between how one of the resources should be used. It will be part of the balance to be made in the 2011 budget. Let me say a little more about road safety and expressive vehicles, because meeting accidents are really a big problem, and action is necessary. Experiences from both Sweden and Norway show that mid pulleys provide a good road safety gain. I have been informed by the State Road Administration that they do not know that there have been accidents with expressive vehicles on those sections that are secured with middle parts. Before installing new installations, Vegvesenet will contact the printing sites. They are also in dialogue with the Health and Ambulance Staff on the case. According to the new road standards, a two-field road with a centre-carrier shall be 12,5 metres wide. It is then possible for a printing vehicle to pass by other vehicles. Where narrower lanes can be built, pockets must be created where other vehicles can be run out to allow printing vehicles to pass. And then it's possible to imagine the case where the expression vehicle is fixed. In individual cases, there is room for them to turn around or come by. I would like to take a round with the Minister of Health, but as I understand the practice in the State Road Service, there is contact ahead of new facilities. I can check whether there is anything else that should have been done here, but I think that the practice is a bit better than the representative Hoksrud here he manufactures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2673	It was a number and a logical context that the Council of State went up, which I reacted to a little bit. It is at the cost of establishing supervision. If it's the case that today we have almost as good supervision as we would have with our own independent supervision, it's probably not quite right to balance that accounting so easily, because then it's probably pretty much used with resources on the supervisory activities that can be transferred today. In particular, it is true that the vehicle and road user side, I believe. I got a little confused by that number. We could probably take it later, but I think maybe that should be a question from here since that number was presented. It's the first time I've heard it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2680	The councils come to the pulpit here and say that it is always cleared in relation to the rescue situation and emergency situations, but I know of three very specific cases where this has not happened. We've seen it in the South. We've seen it in Telemark. We've seen it in Westfold. Those who are exclaiming and are on the way to trying to save human lives do not experience what the Council of State now said from the pulpit. So I really hope that the Council of State goes back on that. Because it can't be like that. In Telemark, contact was made after the implementation of the measures. The same thing happened in the South, but the health professionals also received a mouthpiece. They were not allowed to tell about how their everyday life was on the way. The fact is that after the measures were implemented, after the problems arose, the State Road Administration contacted them. I don't think that's good enough. That is the challenge I want to send to the Council of State, when we now receive information from several parts of the country that we are experiencing that the State Road Administration does not engage in a dialogue with agencies that also have an important job to do on the road before implementing the measures. I also know that the Council of State, among others. have received several letters from one of these, dealing with the road safety issue, which has thus not worked after the intention. After that, a dialogue has been established, but that dialogue should have been there before, so that we could perhaps make the best possible use of it before the measures were taken, so that we could not waste millions of dollars, which could have been spent on other things, instead of going back on the measures that have been taken because they are not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2687	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3963]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2703	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2712	With today's majority government, we experience that the issues presented by the red-green government are largely adopted without changes in the Storting. Sometimes, however, there are issues where Stortinget, and even the opposition, has led the government to change its course. This is, as I experience it, such a case. In fact, a joint committee agrees that it is important to have legislation that allows cars and motorcycles to be available as a hobby in Norway. The government has partly taken the consequences of this by now figuring out something that was previously opposed. The investigation and setting up of committees is something we have heard a lot about today. There is no doubt that strict Norwegian practices and legislation relating to the approval and registration of refurbished and amateur-built vehicles cause problems for many car enthusiasts in Norway, as it is very difficult to obtain signs on such cars, even if all requirements are objectively met. On a written question on the approval of amateur-built vehicles, the Minister for Transport replied in the winter of 2010: «In view of the fact that a separate system for the approval of amateur cars will target a very limited number of users, I will not give priority to further investigation of this at present». So the Minister for Transport and the Government did not want an authorisation system. On 17 March 2010, after the Council of State had responded, the proposers presented the draft representative to put in place an approval system. This led to a turnaround of 180 degrees by the government and the Minister for Transport, and sent out a press release on 16 April entitled ‘Approval system for amateur vehicles’, which was to be examined in cooperation with, among others. Norwegian Motorcycle Union and AMCAR Norway. This is a commendable turnaround. The difference between the positions and the opposition parties in this case is that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have concluded that Norway should have an approval system for amateur-built vehicles, and we therefore have a joint proposal for a decision in the vote to submit a draft of such a scheme in the context of the 2011 State Budget. It must be possible to have a car and motorcycle as a hobby in this country. On the other hand, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will only address the issue. Unfortunately, the red-greens would not take part in a comment on cooperation with Norwegian Motorcycle Union and AMCAR Norway on the matter, despite the fact that the State Council of Kleppa wanted it in a letter to the Committee. But I don't want to wonder if this is a real political disagreement between the Minister of Transport and the Red-Green parties on the Stortinget. The Progress Party believes that it is high time that Norway had an authorisation system. Since 1983, Sweden has had such a system for amateur-built and reconstructed vehicles. The United Kingdom also has special rules for cars that produce less than 100 of them per year. It makes it easier for people with this kind of hobby, and the legislation makes these cars no less secure than pure factory-produced cars. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position, which is therefore a majority position, and which is behind the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2734	I take up the proposal of the minority. If I'm going to be honest, on the basis of what the case spokesperson now said, something that's positive in the matter, I think this might be one of the things that Stortinget can save time by allowing the Council of State to cut out its article. At least that's a advice she gets from me. She doesn't have to come up and talk about this, because now things are kind of solved until further notice. What I think the Storting expects now is that the working group that is being set up is not using it year and day, but that you get a quick response on this matter. Here on Stortinget, all the parties in election matches and such, at least when you've met motorcyclists, have been clear about having a code for this, and it's going to be possible to run with the innovative thing it's building motorcycles. I myself have been at such an event many times – I have been involved in opening such an event – with the enthusiasm, among other things. develop new, amateur-built MC models. For those who don't know what this is, and are a little bit old, I can only name the movie "Easy Rider", where this appeared too fully. It was from where the infection spread to do more of this. We red-green at Stortinget have wanted this for many years from our own government. We have not received any answer, probably because the bureaucracy has not wanted this, and then the cases have been too trusted that state councils and such things have turned the table and said that now we have to get to this, but I find that after the government council Meltvei Kleppa came into the office and finished the train chaos, which probably took some time, this case was resolved by now getting a working group, which I believe will lead us to a system in Norway according to Swedish or British model. In this case, as in the case of the Wirerereck plant ban, which was signed under the previous government, we have worked closely with the Norwegian Motorcycle Union, which cooperates constructively on all matters relating to both traffic safety, amateur bicycles and other important issues for MC. For me, who has now resigned president of the Løvebakken MC Club, it is good that the State Council of Meltsland Kleppa now has a working group that can ensure that we now have an approval system for amateur-built bicycles and cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2749	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2752	I saw that the Council of State when she saw me taking the floor was afraid that I would be able to sneak sleeping cars to South Africa into this matter, but I do not intend to do so. I'm going to focus on the matter that we're talking about right now. In 2007, a new regulatory framework was put in place that created enthusiasm in the motorcycle environment. The Directorate of Road, Norwegian Motorcycle Union and Norwegian Association for Specially Reconstructed Vehicles agreed to make simpler rules for reconstructed vehicles. The winner is ours, it was on the website that time, and you were happy to be seen and heard. The MC environment is often one-sided in public terms as a negative environment. I don't know if the president has had the honour of being present at a meeting where the rebuilt bicycles are on display; here we are talking about works of art. We're talking about an incredible amount of glow, energy, knowledge and incredibly many hours of construction. The problem is that the approval requirement makes it almost impossible for too many people to get these approved, so the bikes are driven on the hangers of these matches, postponed, and then drove on the hangers back again. It's a little bit of a shame, when you've spent so many hours and so much energy building these bikes. Then you should get a system that makes this work out. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State and the government have now gone in to put down a sample that will look at and get solutions for those who drive bicycles and cars. We need an authorisation regime with a documentation requirement that can be met, which means that this won't be a very expensive affair, as it is today for too many. That's why I'm glad we can now take the first step on the way to enjoying these enthusiasts even more, and maybe we'll get another cheer scene with long-haired motorcyclists saying that the winner is ours, when we get this code in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2763	The President has not had that honour, but does not doubt the enthusiasm – not least from the enthusiasm of the representative Eriksen. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3964]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2781	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Sortevik. The President cannot see that the President is present, and we shall proceed to the next speaker, Susanne Bratli. [[The rapporteur-general enters the Chamber.]] Then the President will give the floor to the President-in-Office. It is not just for state councils to be present when matters begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2796	I'm sorry! It went a little fast now, but I'm sure we can take that back by taking a short version. It has been a piece out in the evening, and we are also taking a short version on this issue, which is a proposal from several representatives of the Progress Party, among others. I, the undersigned, on the full financing of the Trondheim package. The proponents of the Progress Party propose state funding for stage 1 of the environmental package for transport in Trondheim. The representatives of the other parties, that is, the government parties, as well as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, are all in favour of the proposal not being accepted. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. Then comes the short version of the reason for it: this case and this package and this bombing show again how different and unreasonable toll costs affect those who have to pay. Also in Trondheim it is that transit traffic is affected, and one has to pay fully for the effects and measures that are thought to be of little use and pleasure, and also the modest benefits and pleasures of. And also in this bombing package and this bombing, there is a fact that some people are actually ‘encircled and surrounded’ by tolls, and have to pay to do their most necessary tasks — in fact, to get to and from the place where they live — even with a very small transport distance. And it has already been shown – we have understood from the media – that some people get exceptions when it comes to the most unreasonable, but many can say that it falls unfairly. There have been cross-politics input from different presidencies in neighbouring municipalities of Trondheim, and there is a reference to this in joint and cross-political opinions. That is the main reason why the Progress Party proposes that we have a state funding of the package, and in particular of the road measures contained in the package. This is our proposal – it is concerned, and it is implemented as a short version.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2807	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2810	I very much appreciate that we can take the card versions today. I'm also going to do that. Because I have a birthday today and I appreciate celebrating this in the hall with you, but I also really appreciate being able to get out of the hall and celebrate my birthday in another way, while it's still on this side of midnight. That was one wish. But I have one wish in connection with my birthday, and it may be directed specifically at the Progress Party. It's about one time or another you have to realize that rematching matters that have been dealt with in the Storting no more than one year ago, it's not a very good soil for, and you better not do that. On 11 June 2009, the Committee’s opinion was signed, which was examined in Stortinget before the summer holiday last year. Then the Progress Party comes back now and wants to have a rematch on funding, because that's the funding you're talking about in this context. And then you have the same approach that the Progress Party has in every case in terms of bomb financing: you're against it. And you have to let that be. But then you have to realize that you lose the case, and then you don't have to. So we're talking about, collectively, between 25 and 30 billion. with tolls that must be redeemed if the Progress Party has an impact on its policy. This should be done in addition to the additions that the Progress Party itself – in its own national transport plan – claims to do. This is a policy that has repeatedly proved to be out of hand. It is a policy that will ultimately lead to increased inflation, which will lead to increased krone prices and will lead to increased unemployment, and no one in this country is serving. So I hope the Advance Party has noticed my birthday wish: please stop the fights!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2821	The transport in and out of Trondheim, especially from the south side, has been a problem for a long time. Public transport has also been limited, and therefore there has been a great need to address this. Therefore, it was widely agreed to establish an environmental package for transport in Trondheim, and that is approx. a year ago it was granted. For the treatment of St.prp. No 85 for 2008-2009, in the spring of 2009, the members of the Committee were strongly critical of the proceedings, as they felt that they were too short. Such a large and complicated case had a considerable length of time and the possibility of going into the matter thoroughly. The right-wing members then pointed out that there were too many open questions related to the package. In retrospect, it has also been shown that there were clear teams in that assumption. It also pointed to the inconsistency between the collection of tolls and the development of road parcels, and it was recalled what the government wrote when the matter was promoted: ‘If the implications of the priorities of the Presidency and the county selection are shown, there is no room for the deployment of the E6 Jakware – Tonstad as part of the environmental package, there is reason to ask questions as to whether it is appropriate to collect tolls in the toll section of the Rock. Without a bet on the development of the E6 Jakware – Tonstad that it has been put up for in St.meld. [[2008-2009]] No 16 National Transport Plan 2010–2019, there will be no good link between payment and benefits for road users passing this toll station. It would therefore be natural to return to the concrete priorities of the national road project in the preparation of the national road action programme in stage 2 of the environmental package.’ The right agreed with this assessment. We now see that when the residents both on Klett and on Være have been exempted from the toll, one of the reasons why their use of the extension is disproportionate to the collection. The right has always said in its program that E6 south of Trondheim is a high priority route. North of Trondheim, there's been a lot of construction with the use of tolls quite many years ago, and it works pretty well. The right has given high priority to the E6, in particular the Trondheim-Oppdal Parcel, and has proposed that this should have been funded through a OPS project, but now we understand that the term OPS does not have a very good record in this government. In the short term, the right considers that it would be sensible to start developing the Tonstad-Jaktøyen project, which was also pointed out by the government in the submission of the case, because this would be crucial to getting a good transport offer out and in from Trondheim from the south. On the right, Trondheim believes that it needs an environmental package, but does not support the plans presented in St.prp. No 85 for 2008-2009, and I am now recording the unfair burden on road users that has been imposed since the introduction. However, we cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party, for which we cannot see that they are covered in the budget. On the other hand, the right considers that there is a need for an assessment of the whole scheme, and asks that it be fully addressed in the context of the treatment of stage 2 of the environmental package for transport in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2835	Today, we have several representatives from the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party has taken a very pragmatic hold on them. The good, wise suggestions we go in and support, and then we go towards what we disagree with. When it comes to this matter, the Christian People's Party strongly disagrees with what the Progress Party proposes. I also feel, as the representative Bratli said, that there is a rematch, and that it removes the funding of actions in which we are all quite a few. Now it was also commented that we might also take the short variations. Part of this discussion we also had when we discussed the Bergen program earlier today. But if we take away the toll solution, we also take away the funding of the schemes. Then we either have to increase taxes, or cut costs. It was also said by Arne Sortevik in the debate on the Bergen programme that there are also solutions such as business models and borrowings. But if those models are to work, we're also dependent on income. Why does the airline business model work? Yes, because we have user payment through air charges. It's going to be the same thing in this area. The Christian People's Party has been in favour of the Trondheim package, the good measures that lie there. If there is realism in that, we must also be funding. That is why we are opposed to this proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2844	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2847	In the context of the environment package for transport in Trondheim, a number of measures were put in place to reduce traffic and urban pollution. These measures have led to an increase in the pollution of central streets in the city. The opposite of what the Storting wanted has happened. In addition to the fact that the environmental package in Trondheim has led to an increase in pollution, the problem of queues has also increased. So I guess you can't say that the red-green environment package in Trondheim is particularly successful, to say it carefully. Trondheim's centre is at the same time threatened by the fact that the city becomes much less attractive to business. You now force all the trade in the city into shopping centres outside the city center, and the Right is very concerned about the red-green management of the environmental package, and how you want Trondheim city to develop further. The centre party has recently been quite clear that they are very dissatisfied with the environmental package. Ola Borten Moe has made it clear; a short time ago, in the Address Paper on 6 May, he says: ‘A part of these toll points, on the Rock and Weather, inter alia, must be moved or assessed if they are to stand there at all.’ Away Moe goes on to say to the newspaper that ‘Sp will require significant changes to today’s system to say yes to a new concession’. He also says that the Center Party wants more bombs in the city, and that the Center Party wants other tariffs. Furthermore, the Center Party wants the new road between Heimdal and Klett/Melhus to be moved further into the plan. It is quite confusing for us who live in the region, to know what the Central Party means when its parliamentary Vice-President goes out so clearly and gives great hopes to the citizens of the city and the inhabitants of the neighbouring municipalities around Trondheim. It would have been nice if the Minister of Transport could also clarify what the Central Party believes. Should we believe in Ola Borten Moe? Or is it the Council of State's orientation for the Stortinge? It's at least very confusing for us, and it would have been nice with a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2863	I understand that the short version didn't work out. I think I'm going to be allowed to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party, where it says in conclusion: ‘The size assumes that in step 1 of the Environmental Package, the ongoing and planned road actions will be accelerated by the State in 2010 and that a new case on financing step 1 of the Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim will be presented in autumn 2010.’ I would like to say that there are exceptions in connection with unreasonable payment of tolls in this case. The best exemption, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is to remove the toll. In any case, the second best solution to achieve a more reasonable system to maintain a toll-funded solution, which the majority obviously want, is to re-treat in the autumn of 2010. So a little visit to Knut Arild Hareide, who comes back into business model and finance. It is then that all the beautiful words from the Christian People's Party about using the corporate model are just another way of operating toll financing. It's a clearing and a clearing that's worth noting. The progress party has a different model. We can sort and manage government loans through a business model through the annual government budgets. You get rid of the tolls. But we obviously have a different view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2877	I thought, like Sortevik, that I should not help to prolong the debate. This is, as has already been said here, a matter in which there is a finance arrangement in the past. It is also the case that the Storting will deal with step 1 of the environmental package in connection with the joint proposition to be discussed on Tuesday. However, let me just say, with the experience I now have in the ministry, that if we are to achieve the ambitious objectives that we have in today's national transport plan, there is a combination of state resources and tolls. I'm recording a lot of commitment around the country to get more projects in place by contributing tolls. The Trondheim Environmental Package is intended to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 pst. before 2012. It would have been reduced a long time later if one here had not received a combination of tolls in place. Then we have raised questions relating to some specific project, e.g. the sub-area of Sentervegen-Tonstad. It started in 2010. But what Right was inside here, the E6 Jakware – Tonstad, we are going to come back to, as Right invited, in connection with step 2 of the environmental package. Step 2 will be a comprehensive presentation showing the package's soundness, with the ultimate prioritisation of projects and actions. Here is a KVU/KS1 in progress. The government is proposing to promote step 2 for the Storting during 2011. So I got a specific question here about what the Center Party is saying. The center part is behind what has been presented so far. The representative of Hofstad Helleland's example here is probably one of several examples of debates going on locally on what are the best solutions. This will probably also happen in the context of the environmental package step 2, and I look forward to the clarifications to be made there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3964]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2908	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2917	The Committee has addressed a proposal for a representative on better collective provision in urban areas. The proposal by the representatives Borghild Tenden and Trine Skei Grande is mainly about stepping up the concessions to the public transport reward scheme as well as extending the scheme to several urban areas. The reward scheme was introduced to provide an incentive to bet on public transport in the municipal sector. The scheme should motivate a reconversion of land and transport policies to ensure that there are more public travellers, cyclists and pedestrians. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on Public Transport in the urban areas, and I would like to commend the representatives of the Left for the proposals. However, when it comes to the reward scheme itself, there are different views in the Committee on how it should be set up. This is mainly about the criteria, the incentives for support, and especially about restrictions and traffic regulation measures. Furthermore, there is a difference of opinion as to whether the scheme itself should be extended, i.e. to several urban areas. Government Parties point out, inter alia: that the scheme has been extended three times since its launch in 2004, and one suggests that a further extension could give the scheme the mark of being a more general ear-taged back-up scheme for public transport. The Christian People's Party has agreed with the government fraction that the system should be more than a general system, that it should be, among other things. must lead to a conversion of the transport pattern, inter alia: using car-restrictive measures. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that an extension will be positive for the urban areas that are being included, and that this will help achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. Several urban areas would be positively motivated to convert land and transport policies. The proposal by the representatives Tenden and Skei Grande for an important step up of the concessions to the reward scheme is supported by the Right and the Christian People's Party, while the proposals for an extension of the scheme are supported by the Christian People's Party. I argued that the party itself is doing good for its position, and I take up the proposal No. 2 and 3 in the option. The recommendation from the Committee that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol shall be submitted by the Government Parties. I thought this was an exciting thing to be a spokesman for. It's very constructive to improve public transport. I want to use my own county, Akershus, as an example of a state that needs to be included in the reward scheme. It's a press force that's experiencing challenges. It is perhaps the state that has the biggest challenges when it concerns public transport in general, because many of those who live there are totally dependent on using public transport. The alternative is to be in a queue that very few people want to be part of. That's why I just thought that part of the proposal from Skei Grande and Tenden is particularly good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2939	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2942	The public transport reward scheme has been extended three times after it was launched in 2004. Today, the scheme covers the nine largest urban areas in the country. The 2008 climate agreement provided a prerequisite for the allocation of funds from the reward scheme for actions or recent measures that have a restrictive effect on passenger car traffic. This means that the reward scheme should not act as a generally earmarked contribution to public transport, but stimulate metropolitan areas to pursue an active policy to limit the use of passenger cars through the use of instruments that go significantly beyond the strengthening of collective provision. We are committed to maintaining the intentions of the reward scheme, and believe that it is difficult to combine with very large geographical extensions. The county municipalities are responsible for the local public transport and, through a strong strengthening of the framework grants to the county municipalities in recent years, the county municipalities have had a significantly better opportunity to strengthen their public transport. In addition, it is open to the use of toll revenue for urban packages for the operation of public transport. We also refer to the political platform of the Red-Green Government, Soria Moria II, where the parties agree to double the funds for the reward scheme for better public transport over the next four years. The funds shall be reserved for urban areas concluding multi-annual agreements with the State on the use of means of reducing road traffic. When we reach e.g. to follow-up on Climate change, when we are now to focus fully on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it is that the transport sector accounts for a relatively large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we also need to do something about travel habits, and then we need to invest in public transport. We have to raise the public transport share, we have to bring down the share of passenger cars. The challenge we face in this area is that it is a shared responsibility for public transport. Some of the public transport is the responsibility of the State and is the responsibility of the county authorities. It is also a shared responsibility for funding. The state finances something, the county finances something, and we have several different reward schemes. We not only have reward schemes in the big cities, we also have reward schemes for public transport in the districts. This will be a challenge for us. It's going to be a huge challenge how to cope, collectively, with strengthening public transport in the country, which is the political objective at least most of us agree on. It's also going to be a challenge for the government. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Transport to come back with an overall overview in the context of the 2011 State Budget, a feedback to us on how this works, and how to imagine that we should move on to get up the collective share and reduce car traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2955	The role of cities in Norway is becoming increasingly important as an increasing share of value creation takes place in the services sector. One consequence of this is that the population of Norwegian cities is increasing year by year. This creates queue problems and other traffic challenges, especially in a country where there has been a tendency not to invest in infrastructure in major cities and in population-oriented areas in line with population development. The Left Party is not represented in the Storting Transport Committee, but has nevertheless chosen to use time and effort to present its solution proposal in this area. It says that respect, even though we do not fully agree with the solutions they have put forward. There is one thing that scares me a little in the setting in the case. The Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have stressed that the aim of the reward scheme is not to grant public transport but that the opposite objective is to encourage urban areas to limit car traffic. There is a complete disagreement between the Party of Advancement. Economic and population growth will lead to more transport, and road-based transport is very flexible in relation to the alternatives. The objective of the public transport reward scheme should be to improve public transport – and not tolls, road pricing, rush time charges, reduced accessibility, etc. Instead, the Progress Party will have positive measures, which motivate people to choose public transport on a voluntary basis. Plunging joints into the wheels for the drivers is not a good solution. Just because the Progress Party wants positive action, we cannot support the Left's proposal, which is based on today's reward scheme. Instead, we want to put in place new schemes that contain more carrot and less whip. The progress party went into the 2010 state budget for a major urban package to Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, with 9 billion. kr in investment funds financed by an interest-rate compensation scheme. This includes investments in the peripheral municipalities. The left raises the question of whether to include additional cities within the current system, but since the Progress Party wants completely different arrangements, it will not be natural for us to support the Left's proposal. Some forms of public transport are more efficient than others. So it doesn't matter whether you're betting on superbuses, old-fashioned trams, magnetic lanes, or even more imaginative solutions. Bus-based public transport can be both less costly and more flexible than rail-based solutions. I think the proposal of the Transport Agency in Oslo, Jøran Kallmyr from the Progress Party, about environmentally friendly superbuses on top of the ground on E18 from Oslo to Fornebu and Bærum is very exciting. The express buses have also shown that they can compete with the NSB on a number of routes, both on price and on quality. And they can do that where it's a good road, whether it's a good normal road or a good highway – and actually even without a single penny in subsidies. Several cities have rail transport services that do not form part of the national railway network of the Railway Agency, including: the new Urban Railway in Bergen, as well as the T-Bahn and tram in Oslo. There is a need for coordination of transport nodes. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals for coordination between the NSB, the Railway Agency and the municipalities. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2974	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2977	Let me join Susanne Bratli's wish to get a proper overview of how this works, so that we can get an apparatus to think strategically to get even more people to travel collectively and environmentally friendly in Norway. So I will say a few words about the proposal to expand the order, which the Right and Christian People's Party are promoting on behalf of the Left, and which both parties will probably vote for. The climate agreement says that one should have car-restrictive measures to get money. We red-green think that expanding the system to a great extent is good, but the premise is that one has a case to bring with it that is consistent with the climate agreement. And there are many of these areas not. I think that's a bad order. If one had a different order, one could say as I've said to Bodø and the red-green ones there: make an application where they show that they're doing what's in the climate agreement, they're getting into the arrangement. Now, what one does from the Left Party and the Christian Party is to say, "Come on, let them be in the order without any conditions." It seemed to me to be a wrong starting point in relation to what is in the climate agreement. But now you're going to get both parties to defend themselves later, if they want to. I think the order is wrong. Purpose is good, but order is wrong. My city, for example, Stavanger, has lost a lot of money because one has not managed to do a real job reducing car traffic. That's what I'm saying. One should fulfill the climate agreement before one comes into the scheme, whether it's Akershus, Bodø, Haugesund or whatever it might be. So I thought it was a bad order. So I – as the former Vice-Chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee, Borghild Tenden, said earlier today – stated that there will be an increase in the reward scheme for public transport. It is stated in the climate agreement, in Soria Moria and in the national transport plan that the amount is to be doubled. For us, that means that the amount is going to be up to 650 million. kr before the end of this period. For me, it will be a very regrettable matter if the government does not comply with that policy, for this is a system that works for the environment and for users, and ensures that the climate agreement is fulfilled. Here, in my opinion, the government has only one thing to do, and that is to fulfill what the Storting has agreed. SV is entirely in agreement with what is stated in the representative proposal under I, but it is a completely unnecessary proposal, because it is already agreed – by the big business and government and in Soria Moria – that this will happen. It's kind of a review of previous decisions, and I don't think that's necessary. There is an SV position in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e2994	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review and thank the Right and Christian People's Party for including the Left's proposals in the vote. Car traffic in urban areas contributes to cows and creates health and environmental problems. If new measures are not put in place to dampen the growth of car use and make more people travel collectively, problems will only grow, especially in view of the population growth in and around our big cities. One example is Oslo and Akershus. Population growth forecasts have been prepared by the Central Statistical Office by 2030. The numbers show a growth without a side. The population will increase by 36-47 pst. An estimated 187 000 dwellings need to be built, and of course this will generate a lot of traffic in the years to come. Strong local commitment to both public transport and restrictive measures against car use is important. Increased efforts on public transport over the reward scheme appear to be well-intentioned, as demonstrated by the suspension. The reward system can improve the availability, emissions reduction and better urban environments. In addition, this will be an important contribution to achieving the targets for domestic greenhouse gas reductions, as set out in the Climate Change Agreement. Bondevik II established the reward scheme for public transport. In 2004, funds were allocated from the reward scheme to Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Kristiansand and Stavanger. The positive experiences of cities themselves with the scheme led to an increase in the allocation, and the scheme was extended to include Tromsø. The reward scheme contributes to the realisation of, inter alia: laid out by rolling pavement in Oslo and bus metro in Kristiansand. As a follow-up to the climate agreement, the allocations of the reward scheme were doubled, and a broad majority on the Stortinget joined in further doubling of the NTP allocations. The Climate Change 2020 report – Actions and instruments to achieve Norwegian climate targets by 2020 estimated significant socio-economic benefits by strengthening public funding for public transport in the six urban areas. The effects of increased frequency, reduced fares and vehicle size have been calculated. The socio-economic benefit is largely due to a better offer for existing public transport users. A societal gain of 25 000 DKK per tonne of CO2 has been estimated to be reduced by a better collective offer. Additional emission reductions may be obtained in combination with restrictive measures against passenger car traffic, as the reward scheme provides. In Klimakur, an increased transfer to public transport of about 3 billion has been outlined. kr per year from state, county and municipality. The left sees the enormous potential of strengthening the reward scheme. The left will therefore strengthen the reward scheme by about 10 billion in government funds more than the government has provided through the NTP. While the scheme provides for a strengthened economy, the Left will extend the scheme to the cities mentioned here, including Akershus. The left will also point out that transfers to public transport will also include planning and investment in urban railways. There are a number of good urban railway projects on the stairs. Among other things, we have the Urban Railway in Bergen – which we have discussed before today – track on Nord-Jären, Kolsåsbanen, Fornebubanen, and path to Akershu University Hospital. All of these will provide significantly better and more forward-looking collective services in the urban areas in question. Then I'm a little insecure when I heard the representative Susanne Bratli. On the one hand, she says that a reward scheme should be car-restrictive. We all agree, and it is in the climate agreement. On the other hand, she boasts that they have received a reward scheme in the districts. What, then, is the restriction of cars in the districts? She almost has to explain that to me. Langeland: The new cities should be included, but of course they should be applied for. That's the way it is now. It's to be sought, Langeland. It's not like you're going to get it automatically. Now you have to apply for a detailed plan of how you have thought, for example. to dampen the use of cars. So it has to be applied for, but we want these cities to be incorporated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3023	The President will – although it is a relatively early evening – remember, for the record, that the speech must be through the President and not directly to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3027	The municipalities – the Municipality of Oslo – are responsible for the provision of collective services, with the exception of railways. The government has been busy strengthening the framework of the county councils, an increase of 12 billion. SEK in 2005 to 21 billion. kr in 2010. Then we've opened up so that one can use toll revenue as part of a city package. There's an example of the Bergen programme, and the Environment Package 1 in Trondheim is another example. The reward scheme has proved to be working – I think we might have to say after something has to start. At the time of the evaluation of the reward scheme in 2007, a main finding was that the scheme had little effect on changes in local priorities and that the funds had been more beneficial if there had been an increase in public transport demand followed by a more restrictive passenger car traffic. So there's been a change here. Not least the climate agreement has contributed to changing the criteria themselves. And it's also like -- as called by several -- that the system itself has been expanded three times. Now we have four-year agreements with three urban areas. I guess this year we have 330 million. NOK at disposal. Then some of them are already tied up in four-year agreements. Here's a warning of an escalation. So there's already been a doubling from 2008 to 2009, and then there's already an additional doubling in the current period, i.e. the present four years. I believe that experience so far clearly shows that it is important to work with restraints both for collective use and for restrictions on car traffic. It is also what has now happened, that there is a willingness to change in several of our urban areas, and it is a will for a greater common effort to contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. Several also see that it concerns both health, the environment and the emergence of more focus on collective provision. At the same time, in our contact with the municipalities, the county councils and the urban areas, we operate with a framework for the reward scheme so far. I think it might have been useful. It has also been useful for one to make an application and one to show that one is willing to take restrictive measures. We've just got a process where we're going through the applications for 2010 and we're going to have a meeting with the individual seekers. We have done this both administratively and politically. It is a pleasure to see the measures and the will that is at hand. There is a clear need for both local tools – we are working on them in relation to restrictive measures for car traffic – and for a comprehensive overview of what is happening now, not least through the development of collective provision. I have received a call for more people to provide a comprehensive overview of the State budget for 2011. It was the representative Susanne Bratli who brought it up. We're going to meet that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3044	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3047	The Western Council, which is a cooperation body for four Western countries from Rogaland to and from More and Romesdal, has, a few days ago, criticised the government for discrimination in the field of regional public transport. Within the large region covered by the Western Council, there are two of the four largest cities in Norway. Some of the points pointed out by the Western Council are the distortion of railway investment linked to Oslo and the lack of investment in the other two major cities. Is there a recording that the Council of State wants to bring with it? Will the Council of State focus on getting something clearer and stronger on public transport, on rail, also in the two cities of this region – that is, Stavanger and Bergen – than what you have seen now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3054	When it comes to Stavanger, there's a great deal of joy in the big change that's happened by the government having a stake of over 2 billion. kr to build the double track Stavanger-Sandnes – a significant improvement and a whole new offer. What's exciting right now is if people change habits and use this offer. Then I would have liked to see that we had come even further in Bergen. We have a lack of professionals in various fields, not least signal people, which meant that we had to cancel Bergen-Fløen, but Bergensbanen should be improved in the last year and we should also bet in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3061	My question concerns the post held by the representative Langeland, because I thought that was very exciting. We have drawn up a proposal here to extend the reward scheme to several places, among others. Akershus. As I am familiar with it today, Akershu cannot search the reward scheme. It may need to be via Oslo. But as the representative of Langeland put it, if they were interested, they could only search – with restrictive measures, of course, as a basis for this work, and we all want that. It would be a very good news if we got the fact on the table that Akershus was already able to apply for the reward scheme tomorrow. This is a region with a population of 500,000. There are major challenges when it comes to public transport. Can the Council of State confirm the representation given by Langeland?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3070	What I can confirm is that Akershus can today search through Oslo. It's not least because this is a close, particularly good and constructive collaboration on public transport between Oslo and Akershus. If you'd like something completely different, there's something we need to talk about more. In fact, it is also the general question of including more in the scheme before we have more four-year agreements in the urban areas where we are already in, and where we already have applications far beyond what we have, and where there is a dialogue between the ministry and the individual urban area/municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3075	The Bondevik II Government’s reward scheme, which has since been confirmed and expanded by the climate agreement, has been a major success and many new urban areas have been included. It speaks for the fact that we have to get a fast escalating of the size of the funds. I could imagine asking the Council of State if she could also be involved in other exciting ideas that could stimulate some of the things that make people take public transport, that is, a reward scheme of her own in the largest cities, where you need good and intermodal solutions, so-called seamless travel patterns, so that it feels as difficult as possible for people to travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3082	Thus, the reward scheme has been extended and changed at least three times in the short time that it has existed. Then we have to always evaluate the way we hit the best, and discuss it. If I give a comprehensive presentation of how the scheme has worked so far in the context of the 2011 budget, it may be natural to take a broader debate on that very matter. I said earlier today that I think we can also see if we can place more emphasis on bicycles in the system. But a separate arrangement for the biggest cities I thought it was a little early to discuss now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3087	Collective means of transport in my city, Oslo, were used by 197 million passengers in 2009, and there is an increase of 24.3 p.m. Since 2003, not least because of road traffic reduction measures that have been implemented over a long period, back to the time when the current city councillor was a member of Oslo City Council, and it is beginning to be a few years ago. However, Oslopackak 3 is based on that 80 pst. shall be financed by tolls. Now that car traffic in Oslo is going down, is the government prepared to compensate the government for the loss of toll revenue for the financing of Oslopackak 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3092	We closely follow the development of Oslopackak 3, including the fact that there are projects within Oslopackak 3 as per. today is not funded, and on which there must be a solution. The reward scheme, which is the subject here, shall reward future actions. Whether the state is going to go in with funds in Oslopackak 3, I find it difficult so far. What I can say is that one can follow developments closely. Here it is a separate steering group where the state is represented with the leaders of the leading agencies here, the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3097	Before the last reply, Borghild Tenden, the President has only to draw attention to the fact that the President has never been a permanent member of the Oslo City Council. – It's nice to be remembered light, as it's called.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3101	There has been a lot of talk about the reward scheme today, and it says in the climate agreement that it should be linked to restrictive car use, and not a general support scheme, and the Council prefers to have a rush time charge, I understand. Susanne Bratli now insisted that a reward scheme be given to the districts as well. I know that. But then I wonder: What is the restrictive use of cars within those applications? Is it not more of a general system of public transport support, and not what we have agreed in the climate agreement, that it should be linked to restrictive car use?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3108	It is possible that I need a consultation with Susanne Bratli if there is a misunderstanding. But I have understood that the funds that are currently involved in stimulating the provision of collective services in the districts are the so-called KID funds. So that's 20 million. This is all about putting in place some collective services in the districts, and they are not linked to any special reward. They are linked to stimulating public transport in non-existent areas. Twenty million. kr is not exactly the hard amount. However, there has been some coordination of supply, and this has meant some new supply. They are not linked to the reward scheme at all. The reward scheme is linked to the larger urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3113	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3118	I thought it was a good line change, and the answer from the Council of State was very clarifying in relation to the contribution of the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland, for here it was very clear in the response from the Council of State that Akershus had to search through Oslo. When we heard the post of Hallgeir H. Langeland, we heard that his intention was that Akershus should also be allowed to enter the reward scheme. I know that Akershus is very interested in being allowed to make applications, and that is why we are making this proposal. So since Langeland was united in its intention, I would urge him to vote in favour of the proposal. There's not sure there'll get multiples anyway, but it would be an important symbolic action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3123	Very short for an explanation of an open misunderstanding, which I would like to call it. In my post, I said quite clearly that it is fitting to expand an area with lots of new places, Akershus osb., has little meaning. The point is that areas with a qualification that make the measures consistent with the climate agreement should seek to enter into the reward scheme. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3130	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3965]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3146	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3155	The proposal from the Progress Party is therefore about increasing the speed limit on motorway class A to 120 km/h. The Committee has divided into three. A majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, reject the proposal and wish to reject the proposal. Then it is the Progress Party, who wants a 120 km/h test scheme and the Right, who chooses a light version and wants three 110 km/h test projects. For us in the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, this is about road safety and the environment. There is no doubt a causal link between the speed, the number of accidents and not least the severity of the accidents. The nature protection network also points to increased noise and emissions by raising speed limits. In order to be very precise, we clearly say no to this proposal, and we do so in the interests of road safety and the environment. So a little bit to the reason for the proposal, which I've been hanging around a little bit. To that I would say that for us in the Workers' Party it is much more annoying – and not least despairing – that the Progress Party is willing to gamble with the safety of the roads to meet annoyed drivers who will run for 120 km/h. But I think we just have to realize that no one can beat the Advance Party in terms of speed. If we had accepted 120 km/h, I am fairly convinced that proposals for 130 or 140 km/h or possibly free speed had come from that edge. The rest of us have to deal with road safety and the environment, and then the Progress Party continues with its Tut-and-Run policy, which merges into the range of many other neck-breaking suggestions from that edge. I mention the closure of the UP, no to photoboxes and booze at gas stations as some examples. Otherwise, of course, we have noticed that the Progress Party in its comments expresses great dissatisfaction with Safe Traffic. They claim that Safety Traffic has party political motives and raises a warning index finger against raising the speed limit. This is not the first time the Progress Party distances itself from the facts. It is enough to mention that they are distanced from the United Nations Climate Panel, the world’s leading experts, and now from the most recognised organisation in Norway on road safety, Safe Traffic. The conclusion is ready for us: this is a dangerous proposal that we in the majority want to reject. But in the light of the debate we have had earlier today on road safety, I would like to challenge both the Right Party and the Progress Party to draw up the proposal and say sorry, but this is a wrong instrument to improve road safety. It would have been bravely done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3181	This was an interesting approach from the rapporteur. It was at least very clear that he was not very concerned to explain the whole matter, but to explain his own views. And that's okay. Firstly, the representative Freddy de Ruiter says that ‘no one can beat the Progress Party in terms of speed’. Most of the rest of Europe has a higher speed on its motorways, so there are a lot of people who hit the Progress Party in terms of higher speed on the motorway class A. This applies to most Eastern European countries, in our neighbouring Nordic countries — Sweden, Denmark and Finland. It's not like Freddy de Ruiter's representative, either, that this means less road safety. Then I would like to say that you should actually stick your finger a little bit in the ground and see what happened just south of Oslo, towards Eastfold and the border with Sweden, where, after getting a motorway, you have set the speed up to 110 km/h, from 60 km/h and 70 km/h with more people killed in traffic every year. Since the construction of a real highway and speeding up to 100 km/h, since 2001, in North Westfold, when the road opened, there has been one fatal accident on the road. There were several fatal accidents every year on the same route before it became a motorway. This actually shows that the motorway helps to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic by 80-90 pst. And there's nothing the Progress Party says, or something the Advance Party has taken out of the air. No, it was actually the road safety officer in the State Road Administration, Finn Harald Amundsen, who said at a conference on road safety. He said we have to build the four-field highway, and with the middle parts, you reduce the number of people killed and badly injured in traffic by 80-90 pst. And when the representative Freddy de Ruiter tries to make sure that the number of accidents will rise sharply, the actual figures from the countries that have set the speed limit prove that the representative Freddy de Ruiter claims to be wrong. Yes, the road directorate in Denmark tried that after setting the speed limit to 130 km/h, the accidents went up somewhat. But it has been strongly rejected by other research institutes because they did not choose to use the same parameters as in other areas when measuring road safety. So we're in the jumbo place in Europe. If you compare the distance between Oslo and Bergen with driving the distance between Gothenburg and Stockholm, which is about the same distance – it is actually longer between Stockholm and Gothenburg than it is between Oslo and Bergen – then you spend twice as long on the Oslo–Bergen route, and of course not least because of the road standard you have. That's also where the big difference between the government parties and the Progress Party is. We actually want to build a motorway in this country so that it will smell like dirt, and it should really be asphalt that makes it possible to drive on safe and traffic-safe roads throughout the country. Then I register that Freddy de Ruiter's representative tried to find out about Safety Traffic. In 2005, we recorded that Trygg Trafikk was in Østfold and said that they wanted 120 km/h on the new E6 through Østfold. Just before the 2009 elections, when the Progress Party proposed 120 km/h, which was thus proposed in 2005, they went against what they proposed in 2005. We've also got numbers of that. On 23 August 2005, this was published in Fredriksstad Blade and in the ANB on 22 August. In fact, it shows that both the Safety Traffic and the State Road Administration have wanted to raise the speed limit in Norway on motorway class A to 110 km/h, but environmental considerations have made it impossible for the State Road Administration to have been allowed by the Red-Green Government. So it shows that you want to raise the speed limits, both road authorities from a road safety perspective and others who are working on these issues. So it's going very well abroad. It's quite possible to do it here, but it's about the political will to do it. And I think that insubstantial claims that we want to shut down the UP and have the sale of spirits at gas stations fall on their own unfairness, because the Progress Party has not proposed it, but it was a representative who was asked about it, before the election. Of course, that's the kind of argument you're trying to use when you don't have good arguments. But Denmark is raising the speed limits, other countries out in Europe are doing so, and the number of accidents is not rising. Sweden has a much lower number of accidents in the population than Norway has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3202	Does the representative of Hoksrud wish to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3205	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3210	It is hereby confirmed. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the sales included in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3213	In the beginning, I get to say that I will not follow the invitation of the representative de Ruiter who asked the undersigned to withdraw the proposal. But I'm going to put it out there, and it's done. For the Right, an overall approach to this is important. I will try to justify that we build the motorway class A sized for 120 km/h. For us, it's also a little about respect for the nature of the roads and for road users, but just as much about that we'll go step by step and slow down, because we're very concerned about road safety. We've even launched our own zero vision. We're well aware of the zero vision of the state roadway that goes on zero killed and badly damaged, overall. We believe that, as politicians, at least we have a great responsibility for the nature of the roads, and that the nature of the roads should not lead to tragic accidents. That is why, although we build these roads for 120 km/h – I remember there is no requirement to drive for 120 km/h, but we build the roads for that speed – we believe it is right to proceed carefully in this matter. I also remind you that the Transport Economic Institute has assessed the speed limits on the road network on behalf of the Directorate-General for Road Transport, and presented in 2009 an analysis that showed that raising the speed limits to 110 km/h on motorway class A was economically profitable. That's why we have a little bit of a careful approach. First of all, we want three test lines to be evaluated after five years. It's very similar to Sweden's 260 km approach to its motorway network, but they go a little bit higher, so they go up to 120 km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3226	Then the representative Øyvind Halleraker brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3229	In the past, we know that tolls are a nuisance to the Progress Party, and that they try to get rid of – even if the Progress Party in Oslo is pushing in tolls that are just from the poor frame of cars, and even let the money go to the public transport. The question now, when we're talking about faster speed, is if there's anything about the speed buckets that irritate the Progress Party, given that they have to contribute to the community through the increased costs they get when they're taken in speed controls. One can at least suspect them when we know how happy the next leader in the Progress Party is driving a car. I shall not ask the representative whether he has contributed to the Community by means of fines. I still have a question for the Progress Party. It's very simple, and it's for clarification. I didn't think it was the only good way in this country. I have never heard of the Progress Party talking about a good roadway, so this is a question for clarification: is there a good road in Norway that tolerates 120 km/h? And then I have a question to the Right, because there's no doubt that if you run faster, you use a more fuel, and that's what matters. Now we've seen the shift when it comes to running time and reduced car traffic in connection with the Bergen programme, and now we're also approaching the Progress Party when it comes to increasing CO2 emissions in Norway, instead of reducing them. Is this proposal to speed up a climate action from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3241	I fully support the case-speaker’s presentation – a somewhat unorthodox case-speaker’s presentation, but the better in this case, I would say, because it is a hall that aims to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. Yes, we may be in jumbo places when it comes to speed on our motorways, but we are also very good in relation to Europe when it comes to the number of people injured and killed in traffic. If we are in the process of raising speed limits, the good situation we have compared to other European countries may be affected. I would like to add that we are not happy to lie where we are, but we are still among the best in Europe in that area. Then I react to the description that has already been made, that Safety Traffic should have come with a different view in 2009. It is said – that is, from the Progress Party: ‘These members believe that this turnaround had more to do with party policy than road safety.’ I feel that this is typical progress party rhetoric. When Security Traffic disagrees with the Progress Party, they pursue party politics. But we have had one thing here today, which concerns seat belts, where Safe Traffic is very much in agreement with the Progress Party. Then there was no party policy. It's going to be wrong. I want to say that Safety Traffic operates a sovereign and good work, precisely because they are not governed by cork government or any political party, but they aim to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. I thought that was very good. Then I would like to make a comment to the representative Hoksrud, who fortunately takes a distance from part of the statements from single representatives from the Progress Party. My challenge for the representative of Hoksrud is: If he is also distanced from the former leader of the transport committee, he said that the Norwegian route must be so good that it is risk-free to run in a drug-induced state. That's what Per Sandberg said. I think it shows a total lack of understanding of the work on road safety. Finally, I would say that this is so that we should follow the speed limits. But there was a somewhat untimely investigation among the members of the Transport Committee, and all 16 members of the Transport Committee admitted that they had not always followed the speed limits. There is also a perspective that has to be included when choosing to adjust the speed limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3260	The proposal currently under consideration by the Stortinget must be seen in the context of road safety. In my letter on my assessment of this proposal, I have pointed to the fact that an increase of 10 km/h will mean a 20-second time savings for the average car driver and 60 seconds for one that increases the running speed by 20 km/h. So the question is, does this change have something to do with the negative consequences? It is well known when it comes to road safety, that there are several measures that work. So there are three elements here that account for half of the most serious accidents. There's a lack of belt use, there's running in the affected state, and there's a high speed. Increased run speed will lead to negative consequences. The number of accidents will increase, the noise from car tires and engines will increase, and the pollution will increase. So the time gain will be minimal. When it comes to the relationship between speed and risk of accidents – we like it or not – it is actually well documented. It also applies to motorways. When the average speed increases by 5 pst., the risk of personal injury is increased by 10 pst. and the risk of being killed by 25 pst. The accident analyses from the State Road Service show that high speed was a contributing factor in about half of the fatal accidents in the period 2005–08. If everyone followed the speed limit, about 50 fewer people would lose their lives, and 125 fewer people would be seriously injured in traffic in Norway. A speed limit of 120 km/h may increase the number of pass-bys and field changes, as there will be greater spread, i.e. that road users make different choices of speed. Heavy goods vehicles will still have a speed limit of 80 km/h, while many road users will notice that running at 120 km/h is too fast. Multiple field changes lead to increased speed and accident and accidents. The state road authority’s speed measurements show that the average speed of the motorway network is 99.1 km/h and has been stable since the 100 km/h introduction in 2001. This I interpret as if there is not a great pressure on road users to raise the speed limit further, according to experience from other countries. In Sweden, the speed limit was raised from 110 to 120 km/h over 260 km of the motorway network, as part of a major revision of the speed limits in 2008-2009. Experience so far shows that there has been a 3.5 km/h speed increase on these motorways. The evaluation will be completed in 2011. In Denmark, the speed limit of about half of the Danish motorway network was raised to 130 km/h in 2004. In the first time after this speed limit change, the speed of running was closely monitored by the police. After a year, the speed level increased by about 1 km/h, and the number of personal injury accidents increased by 9 pst. on this road network. Afterwards, the speed and number of accidents have increased further, as the police reduced their activity. Germany still has free-paced motorway sections. However, large parts of the motorway network have subsequently been given fixed specific speed limits. The risk of accidents in Germany is significantly higher than in Norway. It's not an exact science to set the speed limits just to 100 km/h, just to 90 km/h or just to 80 km/h. However, the link between accident risk and high speed is well documented. It is on that basis that I am pleased that this proposal is rejected by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3282	This was interesting. It is not that many years since there was a speed limit of 80 km/h on Norwegian motorways. Then it was increased to 90 km/h, and then to 100 km/h earlier in the first decade of this century. It'll probably go on up over the years. But now I heard the Council of State mention science. So there is no Minister for Transport across Europe who agrees with our Minister for Transport that 100 km/h will be enough as a speed limit on motorways. Then my question is: what knowledge or science have Norwegian authorities acquired, which has passed all other departments of transport throughout Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3291	Let me point to two relationships. The only thing is that there are different lengths in total on motorways in different countries. But let me point to another relationship. In fact, the accident risk, as I showed in my post, for example: They're much higher in Germany than in Norway, and they've gone opposite roads, they've set speed limits. In Denmark, accident rates have increased when speed limits have been raised. When I showed that this is not an «exact science», it is because we should not be absolute in relation to finding the right speed limits. But at least we have well documented the connection between accident risk and speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3298	I think it was an interesting theory that the length of the motorways should have an impact on the speed limits on them. The length of the motorway network in Luxembourg is less than that of the Council of State and yet Luxembourg has a speed limit of 130 km/h on its motorways. But the question I asked was not whether there is a higher accident risk in some countries than it is in Norway, because we know that. And so do they in other countries. But the question is: what knowledge do we have, which has led to the conclusion that the speed limits on Norwegian motorways must be lower than they are in all other countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3305	Now, what we're going to consider when we're going to set speed limits is what we're going to take into account the risk associated with speed, which is well documented. So far, a broad multiple has chosen to take such consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3312	The risk of accidents is higher in the other countries, says the Council of State. I note that the Red-Green politicians believe that this is an irresponsible proposal. And then I want to challenge the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that her colleagues in Denmark and her colleagues in Sweden are irresponsible politicians because they either choose the same speed limit as we have proposed on our motorways, or actually choose a higher speed limit? I hope that the Council of State can answer yes or no if her colleagues in Sweden or in Denmark are irresponsible because they have therefore believed that it is entirely right to do so on the motorways there, which are built in the same way as the best motorways in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3319	I have not used the word 'unresponsible' nor will I use it about my Nordic colleagues. But what I have underlined is that I am very pleased with the focus that is on road safety in Norway, and which I think is very important. I am also pleased that we have had an impact on taking into account the well-documented context that has been demonstrated both by the State Road Administration and elsewhere – that there is a link between running speed and the risk of accidents. That's a consideration that we take in Norway in our zero vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3324	The Council of State did not comment on this point of view. It could be tempting to hang on to what she said about maybe there was no exact science for which level you should be on, and then she has referred to some studies afterwards. Our approach is, of course, just getting a little exact knowledge of how this will work. It's like the latest motorways we have, Class A, are dimensioned for speeds far above what we're proposing to try out on three sections. Could the Council of State be willing to take a closer look at that proposal, or at least comment on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3333	I shall not ignore the fact that speed limits on some sections can be changed. There is something up for evaluation at certain intervals. But when it comes to a test project right now, at 110 or 120 km/h, my approach is that we stick to the evidence we have on the relationship between speed and risk, and the risk of increasing the number of pass-bys, changing the field to speed spread, and different speed options. It's about heavy vehicles that can't select higher speeds, and it's about cars, or it's about cars, which will probably choose different speeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3338	I record that the Council of State would not answer if her colleagues in Sweden and Denmark were irresponsible. But I want to challenge the Council of State if they're not very concerned with road safety, because that's what the Council of State argued about in this line change round. Does this mean, then, that the Council of State believes that her colleagues in Sweden and Denmark are not concerned with road safety? Everyone in this room is concerned with road safety, but it turns out that the consequences are not what the Council of State is trying to do. In Sweden, therefore, the accident rate is lower than in Norway, despite having introduced 120 km/h on the motorway class A.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3346	It could happen to each and every one of us after a long debate with so many articles and so many themes, that we're not as attentive to every sentence being said. I was asked if I would call my Nordic colleagues irresponsible, and I replied no to it. I didn't want to use that expression, and I didn't use it either. I'm going to stick to Norwegian conditions, the balances that we're going to make based on the experience that we have. I am so happy to discover the broad road safety work we have, and for the action plan now presented, with 152 actions. But experience in Sweden is thus a 3.5 km increase, and the evaluation of the change in speed limit in Sweden will be completed in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3353	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3358	So we have to conclude that from the red-green side it is that when the Progress Party proposes the same speed limit for motorway sections in Norway as it has in other countries in Europe, we are irresponsible in the Progress Party, while those who have done the same thing in other European countries are not. So let's see. On a beautiful summer day last year, 2009, especially on 30 July, I drove from Oslo to Klöfta and back along the E6 motorway, where the speed limit is 100 km/h, and with me in my little car I had a TV team from NRK. The special thing about this trip was that I put the cruise control in at 100 km/h, let me in the right file, and everyone drove past us – cars, trailers, air buses, motorcycles and cranes. We didn't drive past anyone. So it's the way out in the real world that no one cares about the 100 km/h limit. Most people drive at 110 to 120 km/h, and ‘all’ thinks it’s okay. It's reality, it's everyday life. And that's never speed control. I think that's good. When I say it's good, it's not because I think it's okay to break the speed limit, but it's because I think people would think it's very unreasonable to be stopped and fined for driving at 102 km/h on a modern highway. Denmark and France have introduced a speed limit of 130 km/h — two of the countries have introduced that speed limit. This is respected. People think it's reasonable. There are few speed exceedances on the Danish and French motorway networks. And people think it's okay to get a fine. So there's speed control on these highways. This means that in France and in Denmark and in other European countries, we have been dealing with the world of reality, and we have made a speed limit that people think is reasonable, which they respect, and for which they accept to have a taste when they break it. While in Norway, this is a sleeping provision. It's a sleeping provision. It is not respected, and it is not enforced, and then something should be done about it. The government parties also believe that Norwegian drivers are Europe's worst. The party of progress disagrees with that, and we agree with all other governments in Europe that speed limits should be reasonable on Class A motorways. And there haven't been so many good news from the government lately – putting out a little joy should have been in place. There was a nice report on TV that evening, 30 July. I made an election vow, and it was that I would suggest in Stortinget, if I was chosen, to raise the speed limit on the motorway class A. It's done, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3373	The proposal has already been addressed – for the sake of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3376	I record that, with the exception of the Minister of Transport, only men have participated in this debate so far, and I do not think it is entirely random. It might be about who it is that is busy with speed, and who it is that is concerned with slightly different values. Norway is the world’s best at road safety. We have the lowest accident risk, maybe with the exception of the United Kingdom, the last time I checked. When it's like you're on the highway, and everyone's driving too fast, I'd rather have wanted to call the EMT, I, who's not from the Progress Party, than to ask for higher speed limits. But what concerns me on the occasion of the case is more about the simple way of dealing with the facts contained in the comments from the Progress Party. Research is lacking that says that it is safe to speed up. Therefore, facts about the nature of the road and about safer roads are presented. One refers to a report from Folksam saying that 70-72 pst. road accidents are caused by poor roads. There is no report from Folksam. What you refer to is a doctoral thesis of a woman who has been employed in Folksam – a doctoral thesis where the definition of safe road is better than Norwegian motorway A-standard. If that is what the Progress Party wants across the country, they should double their national transport plan. They also refer to a report from NTF, the Social Security Association of the National Association for the Promoting of Traffic Safety. I know this organisation quite well, so I sent an e-mail to them and asked if I could get the report sent. I received the following response from the traffic safety manager, Nils Petter Gregersen: «I do not recognize what is referred to. I consider the figure to be incorrect Our basic view is that road safety is an interaction between different system components where the most important are the user, the road environment and the vehicle. [[...]] In our way of defining the zero vision, harm reduction is most important, which means that the speed of a collision is crucial." In addition, it upsets me very much about the facts, what Safer Traffic means, and what is said about the fact that Safety Traffic has turned around. It is like that in 2005 I was the director of Safety Traffic, so I believe I have a fairly good control over what the organisation meant. And one county secretary in Eastfold was out and said what was referred from the pulpit here, but Safety Traffic as an organization has never had a policy that 120 km/h is okay on the highway class A. On the other hand, the policy has been that 100 km/h is okay on the roads that now have it. So my call is that you have to become much more clear and much more right when you are about to deal with the facts, and not make things wrong. It's going to be too easy, and it's not worth it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3394	Some hits during the seat belt and others hit over. It has to be safe and secure. Two hours ago, we had a debate about whether our students would be able to get a seat, or a seat belt, in order to get back and forth safely to school. Then we didn't hear about zero visions and precautionary principles. The safety aspects of traffic at all were absent. But when we talk about 120 km/h on the motorway class A, it is suddenly a very important thing. Sometimes you get a little hurt inside. Because what are we really talking about? Well, what you're talking about is a disagreement about what criteria are at the bottom. What are the bottom criteria? You claim, it's the speed that kills. Yes, in Norway, both in terms of passenger car traffic and in terms of freight car traffic, we have 20 to 25 km lower average speeds than our neighbouring country. Nevertheless, we have much higher damage statistics in Norway than they do in our neighbouring countries. So it's the speed that kills. Could it not be that there are criteria on which road standards are based? It is strange that in Norway the State Road Administration concludes that the driver has a responsibility for 70 pst. of the accidents occurring and that the road standard is responsible for 30 pst. of the accidents occurring. In Sweden, reports from Folksam show that it is the standard on the road that has over 70 pst. relevance to both excursions and accidents. There's the big difference in interpretation. It is now strange that all other countries interpret it the way Sweden does, while in Norway we are going to continue to be the services country and actually do not take into account what is a general perception and modern policy in all other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3407	Since I have referred to my birthday earlier today, it may well be that I am trying to get the last word in the debate. It would have been a little nice. I record that the Progress Party still refers to a Folksam report that is not a Folksam report, but a doctoral thesis of a woman who has been employed in Folksam, and where the definition of a good road is better than what is Norwegian Class A motorway. Research director Rune Elvik at the Transport Economics Institute was the opponent of the dispute that this lady had, and he believed that the requirement for road standards was at the highest level. There's an interview with research manager Rune Elvik on the web, and he says as follows: ‘If 999.999 drivers out of one million drive carefully in a narrow curve without falling into a fatal accident, is it the road’s fault when the fatal accident occurs? I can only understand that the accident was caused by too high a speed. But if the turn is too sharp, it should of course be corrected." When it is said from the pulpit here that there is no mention of zero vision or road safety earlier today when we discussed seat belts and seats for school children, yes, I would like to send a copy of my post to Fredriksen. That's what my post was about. It was about road safety, and it was about zero vision – and with zero vision, we want a future without killing and hard damage in traffic. That is the basis for everything we do, not just in the field of road safety, but in the field of transport policy. And then it's about how the roads are, it's about how the drivers are, and it's about how the vehicles are. All of these three components have equal responsibility. Everyone has to assume their responsibilities, and it is also our responsibility as politicians to facilitate the right behaviour of drivers in traffic, and to facilitate that the speed limit is not too high, and therefore the accident risk is not too high. And I think that the Storting is conscious of its responsibility when we now vote for what is the majority position in Document No. The 8th proposal. High speed increases the risk of accidents. It tells us all the research we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3421	I'm going to be short, since you now say that this was a doctoral thesis from someone in Folksam. Then I will refer to the head of road safety in the State Road Administration, Finn Harald Amundsen. He says that by expanding motorways, you reduce damage and death by 80–90 pst. Routes in Westfold and Eastfold, formerly referred to as highways, have become among the safest in the country through motorway expansion. Is it not true, then, that the road standard of the seventh and last has a major impact on the number of accidents we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3965]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3436	We're going to vote on today's things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3444	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up guidelines on the use of the State Councils’ office on travel and meetings with party political significance.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3471	During the debate, Michael Tetzschner put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 4-6 of the Code of Civil Procedure is replaced by the following: Remuneration may not be claimed without the owner or broker of any information relevant to the trading and execution of the profit or loss account.’ The President will first vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3806	It is votted over VI §2-14. Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3822	The remainder of VI and the whole of I to V and VII to VIII shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3832	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e3842	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4021	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4031	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4039	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the implementation of local referendums when establishing road projects financed by tolls.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a legislative proposal with legislative proposals for the adoption of an extended system of mandatory referendums at local and national level.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4136	In the course of the debate, Mr Sortevik presented four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that the remaining stages of the Ringvei West and Skansen Tunnel, as mentioned in Prop. [[2009-2010]] 108 S Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Commission rejects the fact that measures relating to planning, public transport, road safety measures, the construction of pedestrian and cycle routes and environmental and centre measures, such as: a number of actions in Prop. [[2009-2010]] 108 S on the extension of the Bergen programme is financed by tolls. Such actions are financed from ordinary budgets for, respectively. municipalities, county councils and the state road network.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency and the NSB, and that such development is part of the development of a traffic nodal point where several modes of transport are directly linked. This work must involve coordination with the Urban Railway Project in Bergen, cf. [[2004-2005]] St. pp. No 75 and Inn. [[2005-2006]] S. No 94 Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the collective offer in Bergen and Bergens region by allocating funds from the existing reward scheme for better public transport to the district of Hordaland from 2010 onwards. cap. 1330 heading 60, without requiring the imposition of an anti-rust duty or other traffic control measures.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4188	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 3, from Injerd Schou on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the implementation of Regulation No. 1370/2007 of 23 October 2007 in the form of law, i.e. not through prescription homes as in Prop. [[EF]] 113 L [[2009-2010]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a case assessing a system of state legislation and the approval of long-distance bus services crossing county boundaries in order to ensure the proper functioning of express bus services.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposals will be entered on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4289	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 27 of the adjustment and proposal No. 3 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 27, second paragraph, reads as follows: Eligibility tested under Sections 6 and 7 indebtedness for 10 years. [[2]] In the case of the use of competition in the granting of rights, the time allowed for the public service contract shall be limited to a period not exceeding 10 years. The permissions given when this law applied apply to the time they were granted. The administrators may take the view that a pre-licensing period is not associated with the introduction of competition for the future route or route.’;» The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will support the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4309	So it goes over the rest of I and the whole of II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4319	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4329	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4337	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 5-7, by Ingerd Schou on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5-7, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a transitional period of 5 years to implement instructions for seating and seat belts on all buses carrying school children to and from school, with the exception of those buses clearly defined as typical urban buses which are used only in urban areas.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that standardising of school buses is required and is subject to compliance with the vehicle regulations.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Norwegian traffic rules to be tightened up so that there is no possibility of passing a school bus stopping off and entering.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4373	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a transitional arrangement, whereby positive instruments are put in place to accelerate the pace of replacement of buses which do not currently have seat belts and are used for public transport.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to impose seatbelts on all buses, with the exception of those buses clearly defined as typical urban buses, which are used only in urban areas.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make the necessary proposals for changes to the Road Traffic Act in order to prohibit the transport of schoolchildren and young people by school bus. The additional costs incurred by those responsible for transport will be proposed to be incorporated into the revised national budget for 2010.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that there are higher standards for the uniformation of school buses and to ensure, as a minimum, that the vehicle regulations are complied with.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4421	During the debate, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:66 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4432	Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4441	President! I have not voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4446	I voted wrong. I voted in favour and voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4451	Then there's every reason to believe that the hall accepts that we're taking a new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4469	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 4, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish independent public roadside supervision, with supervisory authority vis-à-vis both road, car and road users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4496	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop and implement concrete objectives for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for what is good for it. the route of origin and the route of the county in the form of a minimum standard. The size assumes that the roads are regularly measured by the supervisory authority. standard laid down and penalties imposed for breaches of requirements.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State Transport Authority responsible for supervising and controlling all transport by road, rail, aviation and maritime transport. The Transport Authority shall submit an annual report to the Stortinget on the achievement of the objectives of Norwegian transport. The size assumes that such reporting is based on concrete objectives and minimum standards for all transport sectors and that supervision is provided with concrete means of sanction.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4517	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:86 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4542	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:94 S [[2009-2010]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4569	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Way measures referred to in St.prp. No 85 on Step 1 of the Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim is based on full state funding without the use of tolls and/or rush time charges. [[2008-2009]] Toll collection shall cease immediately. The size assumes that ongoing and planned road actions within Step 1 of the Environmental Package will be accelerated by the State in 2010 and that a new case on financing step 1 of the Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim will be presented in autumn 2010.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4596	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3 from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the public transport reward scheme to ‘Vestfold-city’ – Tønsberg, Sandefjord, Horten and Larvik, and the cities Ålesund, Haugesund, Moss, Bodø, Arendal and Mjøsregionen – Lillehammer/Hamar/Gjøvik and Akershus’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4622	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose, in the context of the 2011 State Budget, a substantial increase in the appropriations for the public transport reward scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4637	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency and the NSB, and that such development is part of the development of a traffic nodal point where several modes of transport are directly linked. The government is asking the government to present its own case on this matter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4669	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate three pilot projects in which speed limits are increased to 110 km/h on appropriate routes. The project is evaluated after five years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4692	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the introduction of a test procedure whereby the speed limit for Class A motorways is set at 120 km/h.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-10.ana.ud2324e4749	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
