ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e42	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Halvor Bjellaanes is dead, 85 years old. Bellalanes was born on 19 June 1925 in Mo in Rana. He represented Nordland and the Left Party in the period 1965-1969. During his period at Stortinget he sat in the Judicial Committee, where he was also Vice-Chairman. In addition, he was a member of the Storting election committee. The bells finished legal in 1950. The difficult labour market for lawyers at that time led to him also having a career in Defense, first four years in Air Force Artillery, then a few years as captain in Defense Staff. He started his banking career in 1956 in Mo Sparebank, then as bank manager in Korgen Sparebank from 1957 to 1960. That's where his party political interest was aroused. He had always had a strong social involvement and was politically active in student policy in Oslo. He was elected to the local government in Korgen and served as chairman for two years, later in the Wefsn Presidency in the Mos Sea from 1961 to 1963. When he was elected in 1965, he quickly became a prominent profile in the National Assembly, where he appeared as an unreasonable and forward-looking politician, among others. the fight against drug abuse. He worked very well for the police to get help and resources. He spent a lot of his vacation studying how the Danes, whom he thought had come much further than us, met these challenges. He was also very impressed with the Danish model that wanted to facilitate the return of criminals to society as soon as possible. He used these experiences in his further work here at home. He was also very involved in drug treatment institutions, and visited a number of them all over the country to improve conditions for residents. He did not believe in punishment as the only instrument and was convinced that any criminal reaction had to have a treatment option. Half of Bellalanes was also a pioneer in other fields. He was among the first to see the problems that there were too many banks, and he did a lot to dampen the reluctance to join in larger units. Of course, he also spent a lot of time in the development of industry and industry in his country. He also made a great deal of effort in the field of transport and fisheries. He maintained close contact with the entire business community in his state, and was undoubtedly a strong spokesman for his voters. He also strongly engaged in the debate on the Vietnam War. Half of Bellalanes was a family man, and he never hid that he missed family life. There were many who complained that for that reason he withdrew after one period to become the bank manager of Arendal Sparebank in 1969. He later became bank manager and managing director of Aust-Agder Sparebank. A lot of people had seen him as a valuable newcomer to the Left's big group. In 1987, Halvor Bjellaanes was awarded the distinction Knight of the 1st class of the Order of St. Olav for his great social effort. We bring peace to the memory of Halvor Bellalanes. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e63	The representative Ingerd Schou, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate for Oslo, Mari Lund Arnem, has taken the seat. The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e76	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Mr Solvik-Olsen, Mr Grimstad, Mr Skumsvoll, Mr Sandberg, Mr Meling, Mr Røbekk Nørve, Mr Myraune and myself on the power situation in Trøndelag and Mr Møre and Mr Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e81	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e84	On behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I would like to propose a plan for ICT investment in the police and a real strengthening of the police operating budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e89	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e92	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Sylvi Graham, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Bent Höie and myself, to put forward proposals to reduce sick leave by making better use of the ‘Rashers Back’ scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e98	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e112	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and distributed by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e119	The starting point for the case is the representative proposal 111 S from the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden for a common nordic imamutation – or more specifically a proposal that the Storting should ask the government to take the initiative for such a common nordic education. During the examination of this matter, the Committee has been involved, inter alia: from the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo, and some of us have met with the Islamic Council and the organisation SIAN – Stop the Islamisation of Norway – and of course we have received input from the Ministry of Knowledge at the Tora Aasland Council. The majority of the Committee has concluded that we should not support the proposal submitted. This is the agreement of all representatives and all parties to the Committee, with the exception of the representative of the Left in the Committee. The proposers take on board something that we all of course agree on: that we have a growing Muslim environment in Norway, and that in this respect it is important both for the Muslim environment itself and for all of us, for the whole of society, that we have good imams. Part of being a good imam – which is probably my expression and not that of the proposers, but I think that's what the proposers think when they reflect on this – is to a greater extent to be able to act as good normmakers in Norwegian society today. It is here that education can come in as a good tool, that one has an education that goes on Islam studies and the theological part of it, but also attracts knowledge and reflection about the society in which religious activity is to take place. As I said, we received input from, among other things. State Councillor Tora Aasland, who has said that it is initially unusual for a government and a great deal to take an initiative towards universities and colleges in this way, that one closest encourages or obliges them to start a new education. She records that the Islamic Council seems skeptical as to whether such education is desirable, and not least if it is possible. After all, the Islamic Council has just confirmed that they do not support the proposal, among other things. with the slightly double justification that it is neither desirable nor perhaps not possible, because the Muslim environment is, after all, so little, and there are so many directions of confiscation. Thus, it is demanding, perhaps at the limit of impossible to build up good imam education that becomes attractive enough for those who want such education, when you know that you have competing offers out there where you get a much larger academic environment, also on the student side. The theological faculty, on the other hand, has very clearly said that they think it is exciting if they could develop this type of study – among other things. what in some of the submitted papers is called research-based ‘theologically oriented Islam studies’ — and preferably Nordic as a unit. I guess it's not surprising that SIAN – Stop the Islamization of Norway – is against such education, when their starting point is that here it's talking about a religion that is in conflict with human rights, Norwegian law and Western values, as it says in their input. The Committee agrees in principle with the proposers. But the majority say – and there is much the same argument as the Council of State in its letter – that in the first place a magnificence and a government should think very well before taking this kind of initiative towards universities and colleges. And the majority of the Committee notes that this is not least an important point as long as the Muslim communities themselves have not asked for it. The Party stresses that it is important to emphasise the neutral role of the State in the field of theological education. Then I thank the Committee for good cooperation, and then I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e138	This debate is not about whether one is for or against more knowledge, and good knowledge, about Islam. Nor is it about whether you are in favour of or against the function of imams as norm - making persons in their congregations. But it's essentially about whether to set up different confessional studies in different religions or not. The Labour Party believes that the freedom of religion we have in Norway means, of course, believing in what god you want, and choosing your own church leader in the different religions and in the different directions within the different religions. And you have to choose how to practice and practice and also preach these religions – of course within the framework of Norwegian law. So this is about a principle approach to this issue, and it's about whether we achieve the intention that the Left wants, whether we reach the goal left of the proposal, or not. I mean, the intention is basically good. It may be especially young Muslims who want such an offer, and they're looking for it a little bit. But it is very demanding for the state to impose a particular education in confessional studies. In Norway, we train priests, yes, but it's in the hope that we have a state church and a state religion and a long tradition on it. The one question raised here by Mr Aksel Hagen, in which direction within Islam you are supposed to educate the imams, is still hanging in the loose air. What about all the other religions? Clearly, there are many Muslims in Norway, but there are many people who belong to other religions, and not least there are many Christians who do not belong to the Church of the State, and the state does not focus on how these train their preachers. I think it's okay as long as you stick to Norwegian law. The last thing that is very important is that the study is considered legitimate in Muslim environments. The story has a history a little back in time, because this was up in 2004, as far as I know. Then the Islamic Council was basically positive about it, but they had their clear demands on how the study was to be designed. Now they're more negative. The most important thing is that you have such legitimacy that the imams that are trained in the event will simply start working as imams in the communities we want to meet. I'm very uncertain about it, based on the way this might be done. But then I believe that if the University of Oslo might want to organize its studies in a better way than today, in relation to this with Islam, it could be good, also in collaboration with other universities in the Nordic region. I would just like to point out that SAK – cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration – in the university and higher education sectors is absolutely a potential to coordinate this better than what we see today. Both the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights and the Historical-Philosophic Faculty already have offers around Islam, and when the TF – Theological Faculty – joins, it is also positive. In addition, we know that there are some people in Sweden and Denmark who are working on this. But it's part of the rarity that Stortinget requires a university to set up a study, especially in the area of confessional studies. I will end by saying that I think it was basically a good initiative from the Left. The fact that we get an academically enhanced focus on Islam as such is entirely positive. Therefore, it is important for us to stress that this is not about us opposing knowledge about Islam. Then I would like to point out one thing in the end: there are already offers in view of being a religious leader in the Norwegian community, which can be demanding for absolutely all religious leaders, regardless of background. It is a brochure on what indicates that there are many from different religious communities and also many from different Christian environments participating in the course – and that is a full course, as far as I know. I think it might be an idea to talk about developing the courses that are open to everyone, instead of creating a separate imam course at the University of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e155	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a very tidy and smooth handling of this matter. I think there is reason to say that the Left has opened an important debate. Once upon a time, among a majority of Muslims in Norway, either they or their parents have fled from totalitarian religious regimes. So I think we have to admit that when you get met in Norway by imams who are responsible for some of the same things you have escaped from, it gives you some challenges that it's important that we as a legislative assembly take seriously. The recent news image has shown that Saudi interests and wahhabists, who probably represent a form of Islam that I hope a majority of Norwegian Muslims do not stand for, want to finance mosques in North Norway. We've seen that it comes imams right from Iran to Norway. It shows that there are some challenges that we need to take seriously. That is why I am so pleased that the Minister of Justice, the Council of State of Storberget, is very clear that, as far as what is happening in Norwegian mosques is concerned, both as a society and democratically focused Muslims have a responsibility to take care of and to ensure that information on unacceptable events involving public authorities flows. I also want to stress the importance of the work of the University of Oslo for religious leaders from cultures other than our own, in so far also in cooperation with the religious leaders who are educated at the Theological Faculty of the University of Oslo and elsewhere in Norway. There has been a debate in my party. The Left's proposal today goes quite far. We've been discussing whether we want to give the University of Oslo the signal they're asking us to get, namely that at a later stage we can expect support from the Stortningen for the allocation of such a programme. We've discussed that. To impose anything on the University of Oslo has always been irrelevant to us, but we've had a discussion about whether we want to give that signal to the University of Oslo. But when we look at the matter, we see that this is a confidential study. I think we've got some alarming signals from the farthest out on the left wing, which also applies to Christian theological education in Norway. I want to say that it stands out a little bit. These include: that Christian theology in the Norwegian public academy has a long tradition, it has in many ways been a precursor to the development of academia in Norway, and it stands in a completely different light. Islam has some challenges in that there are many confesional directions that are more or less different from each other, so that choosing one direction would have been very difficult and very little fruitful, because we hadn't solved the problem anyway. We have then found that in a liberal society, which a unanimous growth wants to become more liberal, where we are now also in a process where our committee is to distinguish church from state for good, is not the time for public authorities to assume any responsibility for a new confederational education. We have noted that a majority of Muslims in Norway agree with that. On this basis, which I have tried to explain now, we are today going to vote against the proposal that the Left is likely to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e172	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and not least for his good cooperation. Then I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for taking the initiative in a debate on how we can, in a good and positive way, integrate new religious groups into Norwegian society. Today, in particular, the Muslim religious leaders, the imams, have shown a need to take seriously the great challenges of getting the teachers to take responsibility for their members of the congregation in their exercise of religion to deal with the laws and regulations of our country. I see Skei Grande's intention as a sincere attempt to prevent conflicts between Muslim and Norwegian environments. At the same time, it is meant to be a handshake to the Muslim communities by putting in place an opportunity to train future leaders in the churches, where exercising their faith while respecting Norwegian society is a central part of education. We see that it is a challenge to capture this for leaders who have received their education in another society with completely different values and cultures. Right-wing supports the idea of, through dialogue and interaction with the Muslim communities, establishing mutual respect for each other's beliefs and cultures, and not least the respect for the laws and regulations we establish for the democratic society we have built up. However, when the Right does not choose to support the Left's proposal today, it is primarily for the following three reasons: Firstly, the proposal appears to be an action in which the Storting should take the initiative in training without wishing to do so. For the Right, it will be absolutely essential that any Norwegian or Nordic imam education be established on the basis of a wish from the Muslim communities themselves and in dialogue with them. The proposal from the Left has been rejected for several reasons and will therefore, even if someone were to choose the study, not have the desired effect as those taking the education will not have positions in the Muslim communities. Secondly, it is pointed out that the theological faculty wants to start such a study. Yes, I have recorded that the theological faculty has wanted the means to prepare such a study and heard their sale at the hearing meeting, but the very connection to the theological faculty creates a skepticism that I actually understand. Having confidence in imam education will be impossible for a Muslim if it is added to this environment. This means that at present there is no enquiry from a relevant university environment asking the Stortingen to help start such a study, and I believe that it is relevant according to the need to create an education that is endorsed by them. This leads us to the third and last point why the Right does not agree with this: the universities are given the freedom to choose for themselves the offers they want to give to the students. In the opinion of the Right, therefore, much is to be done before Stortinge is to take such initiatives. In the light of the two reasons I have mentioned before, we cannot at least see that there should be a basis for such an initiative here. I hope this debate does not end with this, but that the commitment that we have in common here today can lead to a good and constructive dialogue with the Muslim communities on how we can work together with mutual respect and understanding and on the need for the churches to have religious leaders who place emphasis on this. Islamic Council and Council of Common Churches have shown on previous occasions that dialogue can lead to mutual understanding, and I encourage these parties to take an initiative on this issue as well. If such dialogue with anchor fasteners in the Muslim communities results in a desire for a new imam training, the Right will take a positive look at it. But at the same time, I would like to remind you of the responsibility we have to take into account all the religious communities and the challenge it can give us if we are to take responsibility for the start of training of religious leaders of all the religious communities that exist in our society today. Perhaps it is an alternative to further develop the offer the university has already established, targeting religious leaders. An important challenge does not seem to be finding its solution through this matter today, but as I said, I hope that the initiative is appreciated and can inspire to continue working for good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e193	Often we deal with matters in this room where the positions for and against are marked by sloping safety: I am right, and you are wrong. But I feel that the matter we are dealing with today is different. I must honestly admit that I have doubted the position that we are going to express in the vote, namely to oppose the proposal. It is so easy to share the intention behind the proposal, namely to strengthen democracy, equality, social cohesion as common values for our society. And there is little doubt that imams like religious leaders and authorities in their environment have great influence, on good and bad. They can represent an influence factor that we, as national authorities, can only dream of. It is not irrelevant what is reported in mosques and what values are communicated. Therefore, it is important not to underestimate the function of imams as norm creators. It could be positive if imams are given ‘a schooling in Norwegian laws and regulations, Norwegian social and cultural traditions, crime prevention, integration issues, etc.’, as the proposal says — whether imams get more understanding of the society they and we live in. It would have been so good to run a little bit, especially since the imam field is so unknown to us. But perhaps it is the sense of alienation that has made the Workers' Party so eager to rule the Church in the past? One of my main objections to the proposal is that it is not supported in Muslim environments. Islamic Council has expressed it in the process. If it had been a wish from there, the matter would have been different. I wish they had thought as I think, but I would never force my well-meaning conclusions on how they should have thought. If they had thought the way we think, we could have guaranteed the legitimacy of education and those who take it. But I'm not sure if an education would get the same legitimacy without it being supported by those who actually practice religion. Several have indicated the direction in which Islam should manage this common Nordic imam training. Was it sunni, shia, suffism or other directions to be addressed? Others have also had other arguments. Some are more technical, but still principled. Universities are framework-funded and self-accrediting. This means that universities themselves can set up and complete studies on their own initiative, without any state approval. I think we should be careful about controlling which education services universities and colleges should have. The proposal from the Left has been linked to dialogue with the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo. It is important to stress that there is nothing in the way of a university itself taking the initiative to set up such an offer. However, I think it would be wise for this to be done in close cooperation with the Muslim communities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e212	I'm a liberal. That means that I'm against a state having a state church, because the state is going to be neutral to religious society. But I'm also here to have a religious policy. You have to have a policy related to the place of faith in a society. So the sail of the Left is opposite the Church of the State, we are in order to have a policy linked to the place of faith. As far as the education of religious leaders is concerned, I believe there is a clear distinction between who approves religious leaders and who educates them. It is religious communities that approve religious leaders. It is religious communities who choose their religious leaders. It's not the university that educates priests. The university teaches cand.theol. It's the Church that educates priests. It's a very important distinction. So it's like I think it's important that faith has an academic base. It is important that faith is subjected to academic debate. It is important that faith is subjected to research. It's important that faith teaches in academic subjects. I think we've got a better church in Norway, a more liberal church in Norway, because the education of those who are present has happened in Norwegian universities, has been subjected to research, has been exposed to academic debate, has been exposed to what academics actually contribute. Then it's seagoing that someone accepts the priests who come out -- someone doesn't accept the priests who come out. But it's also important to know that of those who become cand.theol. At the University of Oslo, it's about 30 pst. who become priests. It's an education in line with everyone else, which can be used in many different ways, and which is an academic base to have in life. I think it is important for a society to have generous financial instruments and boost education for the religious communities. These redundancies are about my nightmare society. It's a world where Christianity is funded by oil money from Texas and Islam is funded by oil money from Saudi Arabia. I want Norwegian religious communities to evolve on the basis of Norwegian members and on the basis of Norwegian money, based on membership numbers. That is what I want, and that is the religion policy of the Left. That doesn't mean you care what religious communities should believe, what they should decide and who they should choose for religious leaders. That means that as a community we must have a policy towards religious communities, where we want them to evolve to be as good as we think they can be. Then I have to meet some of the arguments here. One is that you don't want to intervene with the educational institutions. Here it's about putting money at the disposal of those who actually want to. I think it's a little funny in relation to an interpellation debate that I was able to highlight, which was about sign language – a much more harmless theme. But when we discussed sign language as a subject in this room, the Council of State was quite clear. She was actually a little annoyed at me because I did not accept the answer. She said, ‘It is quite clear that this is a matter of will, and I thought I was fairly clear in my first post on the necessary concrete follow-up to education in Oslo.’ So for some subjects, it seems important to have a national strategy to develop a profession. But in the context of other subjects, especially Islam, it is very dangerous to instruct the institutions. I will answer more in a three-minute post, but there is something I think is strange in this particular case. One is that the Workers' Party actually proposed this a few years ago. Now they're against it. SV hears more about Stop Islamization in Norway, an organisation I take a strong distance from this pulpit, than they do on their own national government, which decided: ‘We are positive about developing imam training in Norwegian universities.’ This was adopted by the Swedish National Government a short time ago. The Christian People's Party, which is very occupied with freedom of faith, lands here to be opposed. The Progress Party is worth a separate post. I guess it's just the old conservative way of thinking that I think is related to the position today. This has been a bit strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e242	Of course, imams like religious leaders play an important role in the dissemination of values and morals, and perhaps especially in the case of the emerging generation. That is why I also agree that imams in Norwegian mosques should contribute constructively to building bridges between the ethnic Norwegian and Muslim communities in this country. Of course, we must be on guard against religious fundamentalism, and we must take action where necessary, but that must be the right measures. As others have pointed out in my reply to the Committee: I do not want to oblige our universities to set up imam education, but I will of course not oppose it, for example. The University of Oslo will give priority to this. The proposal for a Norwegian, or Nordic, imam education seems to be motivated by a desire for imams with a broad and basic understanding of Norwegian language, culture and legislation. In this context, I would like to point out that there are already imams here in the country that grew up in Norway but have taken their education abroad. It's not like all imams are taken from abroad and come here without understanding of the society they're going to work in. Furthermore, we must not forget that the primary purpose of imam education will be to provide qualified and validated imams for the Muslim communities in this country, and then the Muslim communities themselves must want such education. I would like to make it clear that it was actually also the premise when the Swedish National Government, as the representative Skei Grande referred to, made its integration decision on this: the environment itself had to want it. It was supposed to be a dialogue with the environment, and it was found that it was not. Any imam training in Norway must be based at the crossing point and in agreement between the Norwegian culture and the Muslim environment. Such training should not be imposed on the Muslim communities of the Norwegian State on the basis of a mainly integration policy motivation. I would like to refer to the Secretary-General of the Islamic Council, Shoaib Sultan, who said in May this year that imams educated in Norway will not have legitimacy in the Muslim environments, and especially in the radical environments, which have been highlighted as a specific target group. However, I would like to point out that in an important debate, I do not have to be interpreted as meaning that Norwegian universities and colleges cannot or should not contribute. They can definitely do that. And as part of their social mission, they should contribute. For example, since 2007, the University of Oslo has offered the course «To be a religious leader in Norwegian society» on behalf of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Furthermore, there are several institutions offering a wide range of services in religious and cultural studies. Training is provided that provides the basis for a knowledge-based understanding of, for example: Islam in the European context. Such knowledge can further develop understanding of migration and diaspora problems. Yes, the University of Oslo even teaches Islamic family law. So there is no lack of academic approach to these important challenges that representatives address in their proposal. It is already – not least at the University of Oslo – several courses that concern this topic, albeit not exactly what the representatives propose. I believe that the further development of education services, which I have mentioned here some examples, is a much better way to go in order to develop intercultural understanding and interaction, and cross-religious understanding and interaction, and thus to reach the integration objectives that we all think are so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e259	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e262	A clear distinction must be drawn between Islam studies and imam studies. The first is an academic education, the second is a confessional education. I am for Islam to have an academic footing in the West, and to examine Islamic theology within a free scientific research tradition. But I'm opposed to a confessional education, which I find the Left's proposal is in practice based on. I would like to take a fundamental misunderstanding into account in the Left's proposal: the proposal for a representative refers to the 'Muslim environment' in Norway. However, there is no unified Muslim environment in Norway, as the Left itself requires in writing. In Norway, 80,000 Muslims are organized in more than 90 different Muslim mosques or organisations. Among these are the Shia Muslims, both those of the so - called twelve, the Jafferi, the seven, the ice corn, and the five, thezaidi. Of course, Sunni Muslims are also found that relate to different of the four law schools, hams, maliki, shafi’i and hanbali, which, although they recognize each other, still have different practices and different interpretations of Islamic law and rituals. The Ahmadiyya Muslims are also a small but striking group in Norway, and although they are not recognised as Muslims by most other Muslims, it is safe to say that they are still part of the Muslim discourse. Many mosques have strong cultural ties to theologians whom they consider to be authorities in Islam. For example, Minhaj ul-Quran listens. to Tahir ul-Qadri, while other mosques believe that he is complete on the sideline, although they formally belong to the same direction within Islam, namely the Sunni-Muslim Hanafi sect. These are some examples of how complex Muslim religious reality is. Muslims in Norway cannot even agree on the occasion of the celebration of their oath. The left wants Muslims in Norway and the other Nordic countries to agree on a common education that grants recognition to practice as imam. To put it that way: if such an education were to have a planning seminar, that seminar would be quite a long time. The intention of the proposal is good. Imamer can play a more active and positive norm-making role than today, and it is my clear belief that religious leaders who practice in Norway should be well-oriented in the norms and rules of Norwegian society. That is why this popular course has also been established, under the direction of the former Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which religious leaders can take. I also welcome the fact that Norwegian higher education institutions set up academic degrees in Islamic theology on their own initiative. This will benefit both young Muslims in Norway and the public debate on Islam. However, it is neither useful nor natural for government to establish a confiscation study in Islam.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e280	The President assumes that the many words that were not understood were clear in parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e283	After that article it must be allowed to say that I do not perceive Norwegian Muslims as a particularly uniform group. My point is that later this evening you will be able to meet Muslims who are out in town, dancing and perhaps even taking a beer, or you can meet them on the Friday bean. Some are very aware that they are Muslims, are religious, others are almost secular and use the mosque only in the great festivals in the same way that others might go into the church on Christmas Eve. The proposalers of the Left believe that it is necessary to take new steps to prevent extremism and to prevent the development of a gap between the Muslim North and the Great Society. It may seem that the proposers regard Muslims in Norway as a uniform static group, a group without internal dynamics, internal discussions or ability to change. The answer then appears to be that the state takes responsibility for training a pinch of moderate Muslims to be injected into the group and act as a catalyst for change – a type of change steroid. With all due respect, this doesn't seem very reasonable. The University of Oslo is already offering the course «To be a religious leader in Norwegian society». This has become a popular offer for the leaders of different religious and life views, including Muslims. This works well for Norway. However, if you have a burning desire to help change the direction of Islam or change radical groups in Islam, I suggest that you go down to the wahhabists in Saudi Arabia and work there. I am convinced that there are liberal, conservative, less wise and also smart people in all the different Muslim environments in Norway. The inner dynamics that exist there are what will lead to change. The Left adorns itself with the title of 'a liberal party', while the Progress Party uses just liberal values as a starting point for not supporting the proposers. It seems to be a disagreement. But then there also seems to be a disagreement within the Progress Party, for 31 May this year the Progress Party in the Newspaper proposed to establish an Islamic Institute of Imam Education at the Theological Faculty of the University of Oslo. They did so after the same proposal was presented in February 2009 in the VG as one of the eleven points, where Per-Willy Amundsen felt that there were proposals for the Islamisation of Norway – sneezing. Now, however, it is not relevant for the Progress Party to establish the education that they proposed in our – an Islam study – but this time it is therefore reference to liberal values that make them not in favour of it. It might be interesting to know something about how this dynamics are internal to the Progress Party, so we know how we can anticipate further developments in other matters. But it may also give hope to the others mentioned on this eleven-point list. Maybe it's not a sneaker to take down the picture of a pig in a children's clinic or to get the opportunity to eat halalmate in an old age home. What is liberal and not, I expect the Progress Party and the Left to find out through the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e296	For some decades, Norwegian society has changed from being a very unified society in religious context to becoming a more multicultural and hence more multireligious society. Immigration, globalisation, migration and increased cultural exchanges have led to a wider and more diverse religious offer to Norwegian citizens. In the Constitutional Act, Section 2 of the Norway nation states the following: «All Invaders of the Kingdom have free religious practice. Evangelical Lutheran religion remains the public religion of the State. The Invaders who repented of it are obliged to bring up their children in the same way." This constitutional paragraph took account of different religious developments in the country when it was written and gives Norwegian citizens full freedom of religion. We almost take this human right as a matter of course, although unfortunately it is not like this in every country in the world. So to the proposal of the Skei Grande and Tende from the Left where the intention is to train imams in a Western context, where they are supposed to fit into a Western, modern democracy. It shows great confidence in the educational capacity and possible influence of education, but perhaps also a distrust of the ability of that religion to relate to the laws and regulations of the country in which an imam operates. For those who live and live in Norway, whether they work, study, preach or do other things: Norwegian law applies regardless of ethnicity, religion or other relationships. Everyone can exercise their religion on the basis of the Constitution, but they cannot do so contrary to Norwegian law. That is an indispensable requirement for everyone. Imam training in the Nordic region cannot guarantee respect for Norwegian laws. Proposalers suggest that many challenges related to Muslim closed environments can be solved through a Nordic educated imam. For me, it is quite clear that everyone is allowed to practice his religion as he or she wills, but the limit goes by breaking, or encouraging to break, Norwegian law. This is a signal that Norwegian authorities have to announce. Imam education in Norway is not impossible at all, but it should be a natural development of theological study services. Norwegian tradition suggests that universities and higher education institutions themselves control and develop their study offerings in line with society’s needs, without detailed governance from big business and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e316	The proposers here today are undoubtedly right in many things – that imams have a great influence on the Muslim environment, or maybe we should say to the Muslim communities, that they are important people in terms of conveying values and morals, and that it is important that they have a good understanding of the society in which they live. I share the call to think new to build bridges to Muslim minorities, but I disagree that it is a public task to train imams in Norway. However, I agree that the imams in Norway can and should contribute constructively to the construction of bridges between the ethnic Norwegian and Muslim communities in Norway. In the way the proposal is formulated, it may seem that the proposers ignore the fact that this is something imams are already doing. I'm going to use a couple of examples: on Mount Drammen there has been for a long time a close cooperation between the priest in the Mountain Church and the imam of Minhaj ul-Quran. They have been particularly involved in the prevention of conflicts between young people with religious backgrounds. Their message is that if religion is used as a basis for conflict, it is false. They contribute to clarifying misunderstandings, built on that imam calls cooperation on our common values, love, peace and knowledge. In a little less than a year, the first construction step in the new mosque in the Drammen is finished, and the imam is already in hard training to keep the first Friday prayer in Norwegian, because he wants an inclusive mosque. The pastor and the imamen have held a joint Christmas graduation for the students at Galterud secondary school. The drama and surrounding belief and life views are established across several religions, and where the police also participate. The University of Buskerud has a unique study offer in human rights, multicultural understanding and conflict management in cooperation with the Norwegian Helsinki Committee. So here are opportunities for further innovation. One option may be compulsory training in Norwegian and social skills for all foreign religious leaders to work in Norway, not just imams. For example, given what we've seen in Catholic environments lately, someone might need that kind of training. The Labour Party would like to contribute to innovation. At the spring national meeting, we will have a broad debate on the new Norwegian 'we'. In that debate, the issue of the role of religious leaders is important, but in that debate, we must also dare to look at ourselves in the mirror and ask whether we also have some responsibility for attracting identity-seeking young people by destructive and fundamentalist forces in our own environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e332	The Committee is – from the Centre Party to the Progress Party, with the exception of the Left – cross-political on this matter. It's a force, because there are some principal aspects of things that we're going to take with us. Imamar are leading role figures, which therefore also have a norm-setting role, not only in religious matters, but also in other important societal issues. In this case, I choose to listen to the Islamic Council. Islamic Council is negative to a common Nordic imam education. I think they have good points when they point to the great lack and the many variants of Islam as a fin, which the representative Hadia Tajik in a good and complete way made visible to us. I would like to remind you that there is religious freedom in Norway. It would therefore be strange – and it would not be appropriate at all – with a common Nordic system. The intention of the left hand side is good. Imamar is the norm maker for many of our inhabitants, and it would have been socially useful with religious leaders who were clear within the defined common social norms. This is a challenge that imams share with, for example: Christian leaders. Norway is a multicultural and multi-religious country, and in line with the way we approach the Norwegian State Church, I will refuse to push other religious movements for tight frameworks. The frameworks set by society should be clear, but when it comes to religious certification, it should definitely not be a state responsibility. So I would say that the decisive thing for me is that it is such a huge challenge to get the necessary legitimacy in such a system. The many directions make it almost impossible, I think, to have an education that meets all the needs. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, said she had doubted a point of view. I'm written in her reasoning. Yes, it's actually a healthy and good sign in difficult matters. And so that's the way, I think, in this case, the security of the slope is inversely proportional to the insight into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e347	This is a good and interesting debate, and fortunately there has been some debate in advance as well. Because this is an important thing, and I belong to those who think that our social development is very exciting, which gives us more diversity, both in terms of life's views and religions. When we have had a certain debate in advance, of course, it is disappointing, and I am surprised that many have not discovered and been inspired by our national government opinion of 6 June entitled 'A third position: Different background – Common future'. But fortunately, Trine Skei Grande has discovered it and used it in his post, and the Council of State also referred to it in its post. It is rather disappointing that our good committee colleagues have not discovered our political debates, for big business politicians should be knowledge-based. Here we say under the sub-heading «Freedom of religion»: «developing imam education in Norwegian universities in dialogue with Muslim environments». [[...]] Our rationale was – and is – much as others have emphasised here, and as the Committee also stresses, that it is important to facilitate the background and knowledge of Norway and Norwegian society by more religious leaders. But as others have said in an excellent way: when the religion it concerns, the Muslim environment, seafaring says that this is partly impossible, partly unrealistic, partly unfortunate by date, it is equally obvious that magnificence and government should not actively promote that type of education. Then, as many people have stressed in a neat and good way here, it is important to take into account the distinction between Islam studies and the preaching theological part of such education. Then I'm a little surprised that the liberal Trine Skei Grande thinks it's unfortunate that the case rapporteur and a co-committee representative choose to agree to meet someone who wants to talk to us on this matter. In fact, I thought that for a big-time representative, and in particular a case rapporteur, it was almost an ideal that when someone approached us in connection with a matter, we should meet the person who addressed us, especially when we are talking about a matter in which we get one formal enquiry – just one – and two informal enquiries, and some of us choose to meet those who have not quite been able to crack the web code and have been notified in the right way. I'm really surprised that a liberal party like the Left is against this. Our, and mine, starting point for meeting them was that we are safe in our own positions, so we dare to talk to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e358	I count myself to be a Christian, but I both drink, dance, and it happens that it is banned. That means that very many Christians believe that I am not a proper Christian. For Christian Norway is very complex – there is a great difference between reading adians, Pentecostals, the Words of Life, the Church of Gelius and my faith. There's a lot of disagreement about how we treat homosexuals, about female priests, whether we're allowed to drink, whether it's Christmas that's important, whether it's Easter that's important, or whether it's maybe Pentecost that's most important. There's a big difference in sin, there's a big difference in interpretation of faith, and there's a big difference in practice. There are many directions within Christianity, and there are many inequalities within Christianity, sail if you've tried to convulse everything into one state church. But that doesn't mean that you shouldn't have the right to have education in the different faiths. It surprises me that they say that Muslim Norway does not want this. The more people from Muslim Norway want it, but not everyone wants it. Not everyone has asked on their knees to get it, but we have to have an offer. There is a big difference between a religion in Norway called Islam, with 90,000 members, and the next one in the list, Buddhism, with about one. 12 000 members. That's a pretty big difference. I mean, we're going to take seriously the biggest beliefs we find in our society. So I'm very critical that they say that the theological faculty is the wrong place to offer this, when it's the same faculty that we have the course that everyone boasts of here for religious leaders. It's particularly interesting when you say that we can't decide what the university is going to do, while the council boasts that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has intervened directly against the TF and asked them to have a course for religious leaders. That's pretty funny. And then I have to come back to keep a new, little course on liberalism. For freedom of expression, we are very much in favour, but that does not mean giving room to Parliament for extreme opinions, which should not be given the legitimacy it gives to invite to Parliament. The ones that SV here chose to meet are the same as the others sneaked into Godlia cinema to have a meeting with. So I have to say that the only thing that's been very positive in this debate is that the Council of State has said she won't oppose it if someone does, because this is going to happen. The theological faculty now works with Uppsala to get it done. I think it's very motivating in a lot of environments to get this done, and it's good that at least we don't have a government council that wants to stop it, after it's down in Stortinget today. And then I'll remember to take up my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e371	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e374	Inspired by the previous speeches, I want to inform the Storting that I have been a church servant. If I drink and dance, I think we'll get back on a later occasion. But what made me take the floor was the representative of Wickholm, who challenges the liberal parties in Stortinget. He talks about me saying that we want to study in Islam at the University of Oslo – yes, of course the Progress Party wants to study in Islam at the University of Oslo. I've even gone so far as to say that it can be well organized in an Islamic institute. But what we are discussing today is not studies in Islam. What we're discussing today is a professional establishment, that is, to oblige the University of Oslo to set up a professional study with the goal of educating imams. That is what we are discussing, and that is what the Progress Party believes is not right. The state's going into and taking responsibility for studies in Islam within the Western academic tradition is something else. Then I have to say that it stands out in a quite different light: there were many who talked about how many Muslims there are in Norway. Some say 80,000, some say 90,000. 84 pst. by the population are Christians and members of the Church of State. We have a long academic tradition in Norway to train Christian theologians, which has helped shape the Norwegian Academy. And I get a little worried when I don't get a clear response from the red-greens about whether today's debate indicates that we're also going to play that challenge. I note that Ingelill Olsen refers to a constitutional paragraph, with findings and hugs, which I thought a total collapse – a unanimous collapse – agreed to remove during the current accumulation period. It was also surprising and new for me. I note that during the debate in the media have among other things. members that the party of the Council of State said that there must also be a debate about the very maintenance of Christian theological education at the University of Oslo. Now I know that the Council of State that is present here today is not responsible for the church settlement, but in the light of the contributions of the representative, Mr Olsen, I must also ask whether the church settlement is being put into play today. I hope that some of the Workers' Party's spokespersons in that field can explain whether the church settlement has been put into play today, or whether there was a mistake from Ingarill Olsen. And then I hope that the Council of State can clarify whether today's debate is also putting Christian theological education at the University of Oslo into play.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e383	It was the first post by the representative of Skei Grande that I asked for the floor. Normally I have a lot of respect for her, and I very much agree when the representative Skei Grande draws his conclusions. But it was her comment on the Christian People's Party and freedom of belief that made me need to say something in addition to what I have said before today. To say that creating an education for religious leaders that Islamic environments themselves do not want, shall be the measure of whether one is for freedom of belief, is a brief conclusion, seen with my eyes. Respect for freedom of faith is all about letting the environment take responsibility for how to educate its own imams, its religious leaders. It's absolutely fundamental. That's why the Christian People's Party has ended up with a position that for us to oblige the University of Oslo to create an education that doesn't have legitimacy in these environments is an over-management, seen with our eyes. So I'm probably a little more optimistic and read the posts I've heard today, a little different than the representative Tord Lien. I have heard so many representatives from the Workers' Party today make so many good speeches about respect for religious leaders, respect for the fact that religious communities will be allowed to appoint their own leaders, that I have already noted them in my almanac – and they are going to be heard when the Workers' Party may occasionally feel a need to start ruling one of our religious communities, such as the Norwegian Church. I have chosen to ignore what the representative Tord Lien referred to, and I have gladly heard the representatives of Wickholm, Aasen and others who have said that religious communities themselves should be allowed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e390	Some comments first. The representative, Lien, is somewhat incomprehensible in his view that the statements of the Progress Party, or the coherence of policy, can be questioned over time. So it was the representative Lien who was out in the newspaper and proposed an Islamic institute, where he among other things. says, ‘I also believe that the Frp have got their eyes up so that it is better for religious leaders to be recruited from a Norwegian school than from the mattress schools in Pakistan’. I can't understand it any other way than that Lien here believes that there should be a school that educates just imams and religious leaders, the same proposal that ended up on the eleven-point list of Per-Willy Amundsen on the sneaking-up of Norway, as the representative Amundsen explained, at least on a VG, February 24, 2009. So I was kind of not completely out of the question, but one can ask questions about the worldview of the Progress Party. Lien also says in his first post that the majority of Muslims in Norway have ‘refuge from totalitarian religious regimes’. Now I've spent time at least checking out with Wikipedia. One group that is believed to be composed of many Muslims is Pakistani, which is the most numerous minority group in Norway, after Poles. Then the question is, is it then the religious totalitarian regime Pakistan the representative Lien is aiming for, or is it another? For me, it doesn't get any clearer. I also look forward to the further debate. Then I also have a question to the representative Eriksen, because she says that the imams have an influence «that we, as the national authority, can only dream of». I would think that a member of the Education Committee just looked at the values conveyed through the Norwegian Joint School, as dramatically more important than what had to be conveyed by a religious leader. I don't think Norwegian Muslims are of the kind that when they get a message in the mosque, just go out and follow it, and don't reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e402	Some comments first on the challenges the Labour Party has received: The church settlement is not in play. I stress that state and church should not be separated. What Tord Lien said was that we in this country are heading towards a situation where the state and the church are to be separated. It's not part of the church settlement the way he expressed it. Then I would like to stress that of course we have freedom of religion. That's what Ingalill Olsen pointed to in her post when she referred to the Constitution, if that's what it was about. So I would like to comment on the following in Trine Skei Grande's first post: it gives the impression that the other parties in the hall are against Islam studies. I have experienced it so that there is no one here in the hall who is against it – and we have such studies. I think it's very important that we have it in a time like ours, where Islam is a much larger part of the reality of the Western world, unlike before. What we're against is training religious leaders in how to preach. We're not against the third option, the course that's about what it's like to be a religious leader in Norwegian society, that's open to everyone. Then I went into something Trine Skei Grande said in his three-minute post. There she framed different directions within Christianity and different interpretations and ways of dealing with them. Some of the examples that were used actually do not, in my opinion, belong to the Church of State. That's exactly what's the point: Of course, there are different types of priests in the state church, and there are different churches in the state church, but it's not like everyone who is a Christian is in the state church. Trine Skei Grande also says that there are no priests trained at the University of Oslo. It is a practical-theological seminar, which is located under the Ministry of Renewal, but they coordinate the teaching of the Faculty of Theology. You can also take the stand-alone. It really means that if you have studied theology in the time needed, you take the practical theological seminar at the University of Oslo. That's because of the history we have around the state church. The study was established in 1848. The fact that we don't train performances, but that we're going to train imams at the University of Oslo, I think I'm going to be a strange thing when the reality is that we're actually training performances. It'll probably keep going, but it has a history. Creating our own studies for imammutation is the majority opposed, but we might have even better studies in Islam.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e415	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e418	The committee has probably miscalculated how much time we should have had. I think maybe the committee should have had a study trip to the theological faculty, because here's a lot of misunderstandings about what they're really doing. But I thought I'd say a little bit about liberalism versus populism. For liberals, for example, this is the case. strange that rules should be laid down for a particular sex and that there are rules to be laid down by the State. For liberals, it's strange that someone's freedom of expression should be okay, while others shouldn't be. For liberals, it's strange that you have to be for the death penalty. For liberals, it's completely incomprehensible that you have to force someone around a city because of ethnicity, so that some settlements should have one of each. It's also very strange to be for healthy schools for Christians, but against healthy schools for Muslims. This is a small basic course in liberalism. I believe that today's vote is taking place in the order of the Progress Party, which means that they are not allowed to use that expression about their policies. It's a purely populist party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e429	The representative Tord Lien has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e432	I know that 1 minute can be a little bit lower than what you really should have. But the representative Wickholm listens to Tord Lien for once – that is what Truls Wickholm should do more often, and bring the rest of the Workers' Party with him. But it is not that we are once again discussing an Islamic institute and studies in Islam. We are for that. What we are discussing is whether to have a state-funded imam education in Norway. I think in my opening statement I explained that we have had a debate in the party and fell down to the conclusion that there is no public task to do. With regard to Wickholm’s reference to the proportion of Norwegian Muslims coming from totalitarian regimes, whether a majority or a significant minority do so is of secondary importance. In any case, it is a problem that we receive imams in Norway who have support from the Council of Ministers in Iran, which is not just about religion, but, to a very large extent, also about politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e441	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e444	This concerns the visit from the representative Wickholm, because I said in my speech that faith and religious leaders have a greater influence on people's lives than the national authorities can dream of. That's it. It's a fact, and that's why people all over the world stand up to regimes that tell them that their faith is actually not allowed, that what they stand for, and what they believe in is not the way it should be. That is why we are seeing the results of religious persecution in many societies today. It was also what made me not believe in my teacher when he tried to tell me in fourth grade that God did not exist. The priest had a greater impact on my life. I believed him more when he said that God existed, than in my teacher when he tried to tell something else. So it's enough that belief and religious leaders in interaction have an impact on people's lives that allows us to be critical of what comes from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e451	Just to reassure the representative Tord Lien, I have neither said nor meant anything that could jeopardize the existing education within our own religion – of course not. We have a deal about it. We can personally have our opinions on how this works both at the Faculty of Theology and at the Faculty of Society, but that's what it is, and it's not part of this debate. I have related to a proposal that reads: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in the creation of a common Norse imamutation.’ I perceive very strongly that this is a imposition. One wants to oblige the government to once again instruct a university, or several, to undertake such training. It is true that no matter what other issues the representative Skei Grande tries to compare with where one can imagine that something has been wanted, and thus requested something, the course to be a religious leader in Norway is a continuing training course which is correctly supported by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, but it is not required. As far as imam education is concerned, the University of Oslo has not yet stated, either to me or to anyone else, that they want imam education. So I'm dealing with the concrete proposal. I think the debate is interesting. All credit to the representatives who are taking the initiative for a debate on something very important: finding good ways to break down cultural and religious barriers, finding good ways to anchor it in the academic environment as well, and finding good ways there to perhaps be involved in solving some of the most important problems we have in the world, which are just about conflicts between religions and cultures. So I appreciate the debate and take experience from it into further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e467	The representative, Truls Wickholm, has also spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e470	Now I don't know if we can somehow base the whole further development here on personal experience neither from me nor the representative Eriksen. But I would also like to tell you that when the priest told me that God existed, I was not in doubt: he does not exist. So there you have that side of the case. But I think what's an important point is that the evolution and changes in society often occur in the breakup between religion and society/policy. I don't think the influence of religious leaders on society is so much greater than that of politics. My point in my post was just that there's the break between this, the break between what you experience out in society, and what you experience inside the church, which will be part of and change society in a better direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e477	No more have asked for the floor on case No 1. [[Fotation, see page 564]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e493	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e502	This case concerns the development and financing of the county road 469 Hidra continental link, more specifically an undersea tunnel between Kvellandstrand and Bukstad in Flekkefjord municipality. The planned start-up is in the spring of 2011, with completion in the autumn of 2013. A Joint Committee welcomes the finalisation of this link and will commend the work and efforts undertaken both locally and regionally over a very long period of time to establish a permanent link with Hidra. We are absolutely sure that this will contribute to a positive development for the community. All except the Progress Party also adheres to the proposed funding of the project. Politics is about wanting. This case is a very good example of that. For more than 40 years, there has been a burning local commitment and an active effort to get Hidra to land. Some of those who have been on it are sitting in the gallery today. Already in 1968, a bridge committee was set up for a fixed connection. Although it has taken a very long time, this matter shows how important it is not to give up. Congratulations on the day of all those who have made this possible! Finally, I would like to refer to the new proposal for a decision distributed in the Chamber. The background is that local reactions have been aroused that the proposition states that the undersea tunnel should go ‘between Kvellandstrand and Bukkestad’. It is agreed that the name of the place should be written Bukstad and not Bukkstad. In order to ensure this in the best possible way, it is proposed in the new proposal for decisions distributed in the Chamber, which are intended to replace the majority vote. I would like to take up with this the majority proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber. Once again, there is reason to congratulate and thank all those who for years — not to say decades — have been on their way to ensuring Hidra continental connectivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e515	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has addressed the majority proposal to which he referred. It is important that the tunnel starts and lands in the right place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e520	Hidra is the largest island in West Agder and is located in one of the most beautiful coastal areas in the country. Nevertheless, we find the word ‘Hidra’ only one place in the attitude of the Transport and Communications Committee to the national transport plan, namely in the notes of the Progress Party on the current transport corridor. In setting up the National Transport Plan, the Progress Party also promoted a very important proposal, namely to ‘amend the guidelines for holiday relief projects to cover the total cost of financing for up to 50 years’. When you replace a ferry by road or tunnel, the ferry will actually be removed forever, and not just for the next 15 years. What is the consequence of having an excessively short period of ferry release solvents? Well, it turns out that the result is actually going to be tolls. In this case, the government has proposed 99 million. kr in tolls. By the way, the number 99 reminds me of shops that sell e.g. groceries or electrical goods at such a price. However, the total toll bill is 219 million. kr. Why does it do that? Well, that's because the drivers in addition to the 99 million. kr shall also cover 81 million. DKK in interest payable and SEK 39 million. NOK in collection costs. So less than two heads that the drivers pay, they have to go to this way. The Progress Party believes that this is unreasonable and that most people are totally unintelligible. The Progress Party is promoting proposals for state full funding, in line with our thoughts of increasing the length of the ferry-relief period. South is growing. We have a high growth potential, but infrastructure investment is a prerequisite for further growth and development. The new motorway between Kristiansand and Grimstad has already meant a lot to business in the region. Much more, due to good cooperation and roadway, a common labour market has been created to enable larger enterprises to move to South Africa. Evidence of this is that IKEA has just built a warehouse in East Agder, close to the border of West Agder. The progress party wants, as is known, the continuous four-field highway all the way from Oslo to Kristiansand and on to Stavanger. The new tunnel of Hidra causes the growth that will result from this to reach the coast. So we don't want, like the Right, the four-field road to stop in Mandal. I am very pleased that the project is coming into place, but would really like the Stortinget to vote in favour of the Progress Party's proposal to drop toll funding on the route. I address our proposal as available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e537	The representative Inbjørg Vosskensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e540	A long battle is crowned with victory. A great day has come for Hidra's people. Finally, the matter is on the agenda. Now only the scarve step, the construction stage itself, remains until this is completed in 2013. An idyllic island is going to have its mainland connection. A large, enthusiastic community is now given its freedom of movement – finally. It is on one day that this is worth going back a little bit in history and looking at what has been done, for this is, as the rapporteur said, not a matter that has been either simple or short-lived. In 1968 we got the first municipal committee that looked at Hidra Landfast and wanted to land the island. Then the question was asked, if it was impossible to do anything about it because it was too expensive, because the ferry was free. That decision was amended in the 1990s. Let me just refer to the one person I want to include in my post, namely Nils Olav Wagen. Had it not been for Nils Olav Vågen, we had never had this debate in Stortinget today. Is there one man to have thanks to the Greatness, thanks to Hidra's people, it is precisely Nils Olav Vågen, who became active in the project in 1996. When I spoke to the former rapporteur in Flekkefjord Sigmund Kroslid yesterday, he said that there were so many problems on the way that they had to give Nils Olav a peptide about once a year, so that he had driven to move on. I know a lot of the problems that Nils Olav and his combat friends are supporting. In 1996 no grants from the holiday budget were allowed to be transferred to the road budget. In 1997, the possibility of using local kronering was given to make the first official basic surveys of a tunnel trasé. In 2001, when I arrived at Stortinget, this was one of the first things I got involved in. Let it be said that Anne Berit Andersen, who was a representative of the West Agder and in the Committee on Transport, did a phenomenal job until 2003 when the Stortinget agreed to the alternative use of ferry subsidies. Thereafter, several ferries have been replaced by a bridge or undersea tunnel using this method of financing. To take a few of the other basic decisions that have been taken on the road to get to the goal, where we are today: there was a discussion about how long a toll period could be. First it was 15 years old, then it was 20 years old. The survey took a new decision changing it from 20 years to 25 years. The size was decided last year that ferries can now be used for up to 25 years, compared with 15 years earlier. So it's been a series of principle decisions, to the delight of all the island communities that long for the freedom of movement you get by using a tunnel or a bridge. Here's Hidra's population, with Nils Olav Vågen at the head, who's fought through this, with the help of a number of inter-political representatives on the Stortinget. Let me just conclude by saying that the representative Inbjørg Vokskesen from the Progress Party is wrong when she says that the Right wants to finish a four-field road in Mandal. What the right has been unique about is that if we had won the election in 2009, we would have wanted the road to be completed as a full four-field road from Oslo to Mandal during the current national transport planning period, i.e. 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e560	It is a pleasure to note that this case is now in place, and it is a great pleasure to note that there is such broad political unity around it. It's said a lot of reason already, so I'm not going to repeat everything that's said. I'll try to do a slightly different angle. What's my angle is that when we get the kind of mainland connection that we get here, it makes it easier for those who have had a harder connection to the transport network than others who don't have a ferry and who can get straight on the transport network. This form of road clearance that we get here – and I, who come from the West, are very familiar with the fact that road clearance can mean a lot – makes it easier for people to live and live in Hidra. It's one of many elements that we have to tackle to avoid the depopulation of the districts that we experience very much. We who are working on an agricultural report in the nutrition committee just now see how important it is to use different tools to take care of living communities. Also having a transport policy that focuses on the districts and not just the major majors, that one also includes those who live outside the major majors, is a very important political act to help us to have living communities. And then it's also very positive to be able to end a case that many people have had in the past, that has created a great commitment, and that has had many speakers through the ages of the community. I just want to congratulate those who are delighted to be part of this. Then I as a former speaker would like to thank all those who have worked on this locally. I thought it was a pleasure that a matter that has had such broad support and created such a strong local commitment, now get its conclusion, so that work can get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e571	The President is sure that the Stortinget is also looking forward to the agricultural notification being sent to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e574	This is a great day for the people of Hidra, in Flekkefjord, and in West Ageds. When discussing road policy, and especially in the media, the opposition likes to make its endless appeals about Norwegian road policy. It is especially in the Evening Post that I feel that road policy is being measured in the number of kilometres of new four-field motorway. Fortunately, there are a lot of parties I experience that are more results-oriented in this room than what one is in the media. In this way, the article by the representative Skovholt Gitmark is an excellent example of it. Road construction in Norway must be based on Norwegian geography and the desire to ensure the settlement and value creation of the country as a whole. Therefore, projects are being built as permanent connections for Hidra, and the range of projects of this type can be extended. Another example is the success project Finnfast. This ensures, among other things: that the island of Talgä in Finnøy municipality is connected to the mainland. Tallows today have 170 inhabitants. This is a transport policy that shows that we have a red-green government where the centre party is involved and lays the framework for road policy. Road policy is, as I said, more than the number of fields on the motorway. Road policy will help to make the country smaller, and so does the project we are dealing with today. Hidra mainland link is also an example showing that the administrative reform and transfer of large parts of the road network to the county municipality does not mean stop in road construction, but a new one for Norwegian road policy. Then you can ask yourself why Stortinget is going to deal with a project where the inhabitants and county council build a road without state money. I'll limit myself to saying that's a good question. In West Agder, it is also working to plan the E39 of the future through the state through a so-called concept selection investigation. Anyone who knows the distance knows that there is a need for improvements to improve the visibility and to bring down the accident rates. I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport has started this work, but I would also like to point out that when a person puts in place this type of overall planning, which works well, one must go further and see if one can streamline and reduce other planning and bureaucratic curvature in road policy. I think most people agree that we spend too much time developing road projects in Norway. 40 years are mentioned in this case. It's not just planning, it's a good example. Also in the case of Hidra mainland connection, the Advance Party uses big words. I would like to point out that, on the day when the Progress Party might come into power, they must also deal with the real economic realities and the economic framework. I have no faith that Hidra mainland would have been prioritised by the Progress Party if the party had had to move out of its dream world without tolls and with unlimited state resources. If the Advancement Party had to sit in the real world and give priority to banging hard, I am afraid the highways would win, and that the people of Hidra had to invest in 40 new years on the ferry. Hidra continental connection is realised due to local involvement, a pragmatic government and a pragmatic majority that is willing to use tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e594	The case handler used the words "happy with the day". Then I thought it was very appropriate of Stortinget to deal with this matter on the 62th anniversary of the Council of State, which has a significant honour for this matter. Like some of the other speakers, I also want to highlight the fire cells that have been in front of this project. Nils Olav Vågen has been named. I myself had the joy of following him and seeing this project closely, with the possibilities that it gives. But I also want to bring forward an important principle thinking. This is how we will now organise the road projects in the future, for example. toll project. It is precisely important that the kind of fires are taken into account when the Road Directorate is about to have a new reorganization, that such forces are allowed to join and steer the projects further, so that we do not get a red tape of the organisation of the projects in the future. If we hadn't had the kind of fireworks that have stood in front of too many road projects, they would never have come out. It is necessary for the Council of State to be included when it starts looking at a new organisation, how the toll projects should be organised in the future. In newspaper Agder they write today: "Today, the Storting says yes." «During the day, The Parliament shall decide on the toll financing of Hidra Landfast. The case goes through – against Frp’s votes.’ This shows that one also on the local level reveals the Progress Party, where the fight against tolls becomes more important than the fight for the good projects. I myself have grown up to have a continental relationship and seen the importance of it — including toll financing — and have experienced how important these projects have been to local forces. I actually want to use the words and say that with pleasure there is a paid toll, because one has seen the value of the projects that are in place. When you get a mainland connection, you don't have the last chance to go home on a Saturday night is ten over seven – and ten over seven on a Saturday night doesn't have the perfect chance to go home, if one then has to take the trip back to the island. That same possibility will now be for Hidra. That's why this is a big day, and that's why I'm willing to use tolls as a tool here. And then I see that the Progress Party also agrees that this is a good project, but it's going to be a little bit half-way when you're not in funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e616	The President expects the representative to refer to 9 p.m. 19.10.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e619	I just want briefly to insert myself into the range of those who think this is a happy day and a good thing. Many fires have been mentioned here today, and that is important. We know how important local engagement is, which also Hareide specified instead. I also know that the current rapporteur in Flekkefjord will look back on a positive decision here today as a great and important saying after many years of systematic work. This case has been top priority on Hidra and throughout Flekkefjord. The interconnector will facilitate better housing and commuting, the development of travel and leisure services. With new continental connections, travel times are severely reduced, and it is also possible to travel all day – which I understand was very important for the representative Hareide. Growth is expected both in commuting and in leisure travel. There are also major plans for the further development of recreational housing. This is a joyous day, as the work to get this until now is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e632	The date today, 12 November 2010, will be a historic day for Hidra. Twelve-eleven-ten -- it sounds like a countdown. That's it. In this context, there is a countdown for the realization of a continental relationship in 2013. I would also like to say congratulations on the day to the Hidra people and to all travellers to and from Hidra. Another mainland connection will replace an interfacing connection. This is a project that will reduce the time spent on work and leisure trips between Hidra and mainland. It will facilitate both construction and more commuting and the development of travel and leisure services. The project covers the construction of approximately 3.5 km of new two-field road, with a road width of 8.5 metres and includes a subsea tunnel of 3.2 km. The tunnel has a maximum increase of 10 pst. and is at most 125 meters below sea level. So the plant start is planned for spring and completion for autumn 2013. The continental connection replaces an interstitial distance of 5 minutes. Those who expect this will say that the loss of waiting and boarding time will shorten the journey time from about 20 minutes to less than 5 minutes, and it will be possible to travel all day. I think that's the last thing, it's no longer letting the ferries control the time, which is what matters the most. There are about 330 vehicles passing here during the day, where work and leisure trips between Hidra and Flekkefjord constitute the main part. Heavy running gear is about 5 pst. of that traffic. Better communication and the proximity of the Flekkefjord Centre make it possible to expect an increase in commuting after the construction of the continental link. Hidra is a beautiful island with beautiful surroundings that more than one island wants to enjoy. As a result, they also expect an increase in leisure trips to and from the island. There is a project that is estimated to be 345 million. kr converted to 2010 price level. The project will be financed by the advance of county council contributions to the ferry link, i.e. alternative use of ferry charges, ordinary county funds, tolls and local bonuses. It's an extension that's socio-economically profitable. The net benefit for the project is estimated at 97 million. NOK, with a net benefit over total costs of 0,9. For users, the construction of the mainland connection involves a time-limited payment of tolls rather than the payment of a ferry ticket as long as the connection is maintained. Toll collection has been grounded for about 19 years, from autumn 2013 to 2032. If we compare the toll rates with the ferry fare, the ferry fare today is 152 kroner per passenger car with an adult passenger for a return trip, before the discount. In the mainland connection there is a fare for a return journey of 220 kroner for light goods and 440 kroner for heavy goods vehicles. It's estimated that about 80 pst. traffic will be 50 pst subscribers. discount, which gives an average payment per passage of approximately 154 kroner. Tolls have been added to cover 99 million. expenditure on investment, and also tolls on the financing and collection costs and operation of the tolling company. It is therefore an important socio-economical project that will improve communication, which will strengthen the construction of Hidra, which will open up additional business and tourism. There is a project that is important for the community of Hidra. The great local commitment, and the willingness to contribute with local resources and tolls, is evidence of that. One has worked for a long time to realize this project, and I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports this development, supporting the underlying funding, a funding that is not a top-down financing of enlargement and government, but is a follow-up to local decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e658	Then I must be allowed to start by congratulating the Council of State on the day. Unfortunately, I cannot congratulate you on the tolls. It is such that the ferry that is now being replaced by a fixed link has been national road haulage operator. It is such that, after the administrative reform, the state's funds for that ferry will be transferred to the state where the ferry is now located. If the ferry had continued to run for 19–30–45 years, yes, in fact forever, the State would make direct or indirect funding contributions. At the time of the construction of the continental link, the State withdraws. After how many years does the state withdraw, my only question is, and who saves on the fact that the state withdraws and no longer contributes to the operation of a ferry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e667	So what has happened in this case is a follow-up to local decisions. It was for us absolutely the simplest and fastest way to realize this project now. It is local and regional one has proposed these 19 years of toll effort, and other conditions, other local decisions are presented by the proposition. Then I have to say that when I belong to the Progress Party, I come up with a neighbor who got answers to many of her questions from parents – that's a principle! I would also like the Progress Party to now realize that sometimes a departure from its principles is necessary in order to realize good local wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e676	It has become clear today that this project has not been produced by the bureaucrats in Oslo, but by local firecrackers. That's why I thought it was very relevant, when we are now conducting a reorganization of a part of our road project, how they should be managed. Will the Council of State just be careful that those who are present, who are these fire cells, are incentivising to be fires ahead, to come up with ideas about the new projects when it starts to look at how this sector is to be organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e683	What we pay when it comes to toll companies is quite right, as the representative Hareide here takes up. We're looking at a reorganization, and we're looking at a simplification when it comes to the millions that are going into operation today. They have, however, been reduced in the long term. He travels – I agree – a relevant question. I noticed that he also included this in his article. Now these different fireplaces have in common that they've been engaged in one project at a time. But I'm going to take with me what he's talking about here, because one thing is probably also when it comes to the operation of toll companies: it's important to play along with the local and regional involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e690	The Prime Minister said in this room that building a road on a payoff is an expensive way to finance the road. It was in connection with the OPS project and the wish for several OPS projects. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she does not believe that using tolls really is an expensive way of building a road, when more than half of what you are going to charge, is going to pay interest or to pay administrative costs. So almost half of what you're going to input, you're going to have to pay to administer the scheme. It must be enormously expensive. I think it's a pleasure day for those who get mainland connections, but it won't be a happy day when you get the bill and start paying for it. I want to challenge the Council of State: isn't this a very expensive way of building a road, and shouldn't you go in with state resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e699	Both the Prime Minister and I are constantly concerned about how we can get both more roads and more paths for the money. We have an ambitious transport plan, a national transport plan, to stick to, with 322 billion states over ten years – 100 more than in the previous period – and then the tolls are added. Why all these tolls? It is because there are a number of local and regional initiatives that are emerging, precisely to put in place more projects than those that are already part of an ambitious national transport plan. Then I actually thought that the choice was very simple. Do we support those who want to pay tolls to get their extension road project before? Or are we going to stand on our principle and push the possibilities for continental relations both in Hidra and elsewhere in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e705	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e710	At some of the posts here today, it has almost seemed as if we are going to release prisoners, but I think that all those who have been to Hidra know that being there doesn't feel like a prison. It's a great island, and freedom is great. But there is the possibility of being able to live and be related to the community around that has been important. It is a long story that is ending happily today. I'm not going to bring the whole story, but I want to bring some more glimpses than what has emerged in the debate. After the bridge committee was set up in 1968, many things have happened. The first car ferry came in 1972. Then I was one year old. Taken away costing 1.7 million. NOK and took eleven cars each time. In 1987, a new group engaged to establish a continental link. It was Hidra Football Club that engaged in the case. They conducted a survey of Hidra’s inhabitants and found that 97,5 pst. by the residents of Hidra would have continental connections. Then the first car ride was replaced by the ferry "Pick Island II". It came in 1988. Now the ferry could take 14 cars, and you had to increase the crew from three to four on board the ferry. In 1990 the ferry «Hidrasund II» – actually a 28-car ferry, but due to all the requirements for how to stay, the number of cars was reduced to 23. In parallel with this holiday development, it was worked hard to get rid of ferries and get a mainland connection. Between 600 and 800 people lived in Hidra, where they worked with fish, farming or other businesses or had jobs on the mainland that they had held onto. Today, hard work and hard work are crowned with victory. The size can far from take the full credit for what is ahead of us today, because there is still a significant self-financing, and without the great local willingness to pay, I don't think we had stood here today. There is reason to congratulate the Council of State on the day, but also for the job she has done to bring this matter up here today. I also want to thank the committee leader Knut Arild Hareide for the effort he has put in to get this case in place today, but not least one thank you to all the patient Southerners who are either sitting here in the gallery, or who are following us on the Internet TV via the websites of Hidra Landfast, for the job done to get this in place. Patient Southerners will finally see results. Let me finish the article by saying: E39, rv. 9, E18 – and we are still waiting for sleeping cars that Stortinget has promised us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e729	This is a happy project, let me establish it. We are happy to see that an important project finally comes into place. It should have been in place a long time ago. The funding is sad, it's extra expensive, and it's completely unnecessary in our view. I want to remind you that it is no longer than yesterday that the government was able to find a billion more, so it is money to find if you are at all willing and eager to look. The progress party is for what the Center Party used to be, but gave up in the previous period, that is, free ferries. The progress party believes that the ferry is part of the road. The Progress Party has the means to eliminate ferry payments both in the Advance Party’s 2010–2019 alternative national transport plan and in the Advance Party’s 2010–2011 budget proposals. Based on this view, we believe that tolls in ferry relief projects are unnecessary, that it is unreasonable for the state to pay and that it is not the drivers to pay through tolls. If we are to apply the principle of saved ferry subsidies, the Progress Party believes that at least the State should contribute saved funds for up to 50 years and cover the shooting. Now, the government itself is adding up to 30 years to the national transport plan. So then, with a line to the Council of State talking about principles, you're willing to deviate from the principle if it goes the way of the state. This is where the state could save money to give up subsidies for 11 years, and that's nice, but the bill for the drivers becomes formidable – not just animals, but it becomes formidable animals. It's a double funding add-on, so it's going to be 200 pst. in the case of financial contributions. It seems that the party of progress is both unnecessary, irreproachable and, in fact, deplorable. If it is permissible for this President to use as a parliamentary expression ‘political extortion’ if it is still to refer to local initiatives, I would like to do so. Finally, when the representative Hareide uses the expression revealingly in this case, I would say that what this case – like other matters – reveals is that one speaks in capital letters about the benefits and the pleasure of getting the projects, talking as much as possible about the funding when there are toll-funded projects. Too many of them. There will also be much more, and common to these is that the toll bill is increasing and the state pays less. That's the principle of the red-green government: let the drivers pay for extra infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e744	It is such that it must be allowed to respond in the world of politics when attacked by Geir Pollestad, who says that had it been up to the policy of the Progress Party, the people themselves had to pay for the tunnel, and not least in relation to the opinions of the chairman of the committee, Hareide. But it's never so bad that it's not good for anything, because when Hareide, as head of the Transport and Communications Committee, says that he has now seen the importance of the road, it's a step in the right direction. We have an eternal discussion about how we're going to finance road development. If you want to go in and look at the economic, dynamic effects of the Advance Party's policy, you can see that we're actually setting aside a fund of 300 billion. kr. So of this, interest rates can be financed almost twice as much expansion as what you're doing today. If you choose to keep that fund there for 10 years, or 20 years, it is actually that once we have put in place an efficient transport structure in Norway, the money is kept. They're not used up. It's a part that doesn't understand. It is almost so that for the Progress Party, which was once forged for a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention, this is as important a matter as Christianity is for the Christian People's Party and as the farmers are for the Center Party. There are actually some things that have to be principled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e751	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e754	It could seem for a moment that the president was a little out of prayer, farmers and other things! I very much agree with all those who have been here and boasted that the project is now coming into place. Of course, it's the local initiative here that has made this possible. Everyone is pleased, but I am convinced that those who are sitting in the gallery and who have fought for this matter agree that this should actually have been paid by the state if you had followed it up. So to the Center Party, which says we have to be more results-oriented: we're as results-oriented in the Progress Party as they are in the Center Party. We're actually more results-oriented, because we want more. Some people try all the time in this room and elsewhere to present it as if someone has some money that others don't have. We have exactly the same money, but the question is, how are we going to spend the same money? Then it's about putting them into non-resident companies, or whether we're going to put them into real values in Norway. Asphalt is good real value, and it actually brings a lot of economic effects back to society. That's what this is about, and we say that we want to prioritise spending money on infrastructure and building our country with good infrastructure. Someone tried that we speak in big words, and that we have to relate to the real world. Yes, we relate to the real world, and we relate to how we want to use the economic resources available to society – or how to not use them. I think it's a little special that yesterday the government was missing 1 billion. NOK to care for the elderly, today they have received 1 billion. to care for the elderly. So that's the way that if it's just political will, you can actually find money. This is about: Is it political will, or is it not political will? And unfortunately, the political will is gone when it comes to the responsibility of the state to finance infrastructure development in this country here. Hareide was happy that he could pay tolls when he was little – I don't think it was Hareide who paid the tolls, it was probably the parents of Hareide. But just to bring it with you: In 2001, the car charges were 37 billion. NOK 2,6 billion. kr in tolls. So today, car charges are somewhere between 50 and 60 billion. kr and tolls over 7 billion. kr. So something has happened here as well as it's important to bring it with you when you boast that you think it's okay with tolls. It is said that this is local policy initiative, which the Council of State is constantly trying to highlight and also politicians from the red-green and other parties. It is not a local policy initiative. When I'm out talking to local politicians, they say this is state blackmail, we have no other choice, we have to be on this if we're going to get away. I also think it's quite wonderful when I hear about this fantastic local political commitment and the willingness to do this when you're not afraid to ask the citizens if they want to have tolls or not. We have said that we want a referendum, and we are promoting proposals for a referendum, but it is being voted down by the parties who say that this is a local policy initiative. It's not local politics initiative, it's state extortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e769	The President would just like to remind us that we will have debates later in the Storting on the 2011 budget and the re-balancing of the budget for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e772	I will take that call and go back to the budget for 2010. When it was presented, the Progress Party made a big point of its responsible budget. At the same time, they removed the tolls. But they didn't have the money to do that in their alternate budget. They did so in the new era of the budget in 2009. So the Progress Party has a need to twist and turn the money around, and I think it's raised above any doubt. Within a responsible financial framework, we must give priority to the funds, and that is when I doubt that the Progress Party will dare to put important racial protection projects and important regional policy projects high enough in the fight against motorways out of our big cities. Then I have to give some praise to the Advance Party because, unlike the Right and like the Center Party, they have a more sober approach to OPS. We can see positive sides by OPS, but we don't think that makes us get any free money. In this way, the Progress Party has a good approach to that matter. I just want to comment on this with the ferry triggers. In my opinion, it was such that when the roads were transferred to the county municipalities, the ferries were kept outside the distribution key that was there. And that in principle means that the Western Agder county councils and other county municipalities keep their holiday redemption funds initially forever, and that they can also go up on the number of years of holiday relief funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e781	Let me first of all thank the Committee on Rapid Progress and constructive Cooperation on this matter, so that we can now, on 12 November 2010, seriously start counting to mainland relations. Then I'm also happy that the committee corrects when it's wrong name out and going. I have registered a change of name decision. I'll follow up on that. So I also want to be more precise on the representative of Sortevik's question. He asked, "When does the government withdraw when it comes to holiday-resolution funds?" There I can confirm Geir Pollestad's version. Finally, this was also a discussion of principle. This neighbor thought that she so often got answers from her parents that it's a principle instead of they going into what the question really was, that she stuck to her part: when I grow up, I'm not going to have a single principle! I'm not there. But I actually think that there's reason to wonder that it's the principle here that until those degrees are set up against what's actually the real choices in more road projects than continental connections to Hidra. And then we can say that there's a different degree of joy today, but there's actually an expression like this from all of the parties here. I think those who have reason for the greatest joy, and who also show the most, are the local people who have worked for the project that is being agreed on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e794	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 564]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e812	When we look at the historical development of agriculture, it shows a rather steep downward trend when it relates to both the numbers of use and the numbers of employment in agriculture. It is worth noting that after five years of red-green rule, and with the centre party in the driver's seat, there is no improvement in this development – on the contrary. Every year we see a lot of gardening being shut down, and use is being moved away and standing empty. This is particularly true in the districts. More than half of the agricultural holdings have between five and 50 beds of agricultural land, and in 2009 almost every three of these holdings were moved away. In the same year, the number of farmers, or agricultural holdings, fell to 47,900. That's about. 128 000 concessional agricultural properties in Norway, and then one does not count with other zero-limit property. Of these, 5,700 are forested properties without agricultural land, and 79 000 are uninhabited. Almost 20 pst. of the property subject to concession is free of charge. I think this shows that Norwegian agricultural policy is not suited to the challenges that exist and that there is a great need for a policy that gives a much larger deal to the individual farmer. It is not just the agency that decides for better pay in agriculture. On the contrary, greater freedom for individual farmers will be one of the most important measures to increase the profitability of agriculture. It is right that the state should continue with financial support for agriculture, but that it should be less bureaucratic and more targeted. Scarecrow propaganda from central party politicians and agricultural organisations that right in position would destroy agriculture in the districts is very misleading. When the Right reduces agricultural transfers, other measures that reduce agricultural expenditure are far outweighed. The criticism our budget gets from the agricultural organisations is often forgotten. Right, I think that in a completely different way, there's a need to "step-by-step" in relation to the two pillars of combination and full-time use. The aid schemes must be simplified and we must have a system with the lowest possible administrative costs. We don't need 'target rules' on everything, but we need a business policy that's accurate. We need to stimulate ourselves away from investment droughts in agriculture. Therefore, the Right has a Swedish model investment fund to defer the high personal tax on individuals. That is why we will also remove inheritance taxes and property taxes. We want to raise the minimum deduction and raise the ceiling for payroll recipients. Most farmers have labour incomes and alternative sources of income, so they are also hit by the top tax. Right will eliminate price controls and sharing and burden-sharing rules in order to create a better capital and value situation in agriculture. A general review of private ownership and landowners’ rights will also make it easier to obtain income from agriculture. The new agricultural message will be an important tool in facilitating an agricultural industry that can be viable for many years to come. I am very concerned that there should be stronger ties to the industry instead of freeing the farmer, who has the right to manage agricultural policy. Small power is pointed to as an important source of income for agriculture, and green certificate is an important measure to generate profitability in the development of small-scale power. Unfortunately, the government has already ruined the revenue base for over 150 small power plants by breaking the promise to be included in the transitional green certificate schemes. Many happen, not least farmers. The wallpaper is estimated to be $12 billion. kr. The government's transitional regime punishes those who are proud of red-green politicians and who have the courage to bet on an important industry in the districts. Clear promises both from a mass collapse and from red-green politicians have become a solid promise break. Many small builders are at worst at risk of having to leave the garden and land. Of the 185 small-scale power plants built after 2004, only 35 are allowed to enter a green certificate market with the government. Many small power plants built between 1 January 2004 and September 2009 lose several hundred thousand kroner a year – some also several million dollars. This is very dramatic for those who owe it. Now both the Right and the Small Power Builders are waiting to see what is coming out of the Swedish certification schemes and what the deadline set for 2012 will be. Right wants to strengthen the agricultural income base by, among others, to strengthen the income base of small power. The removal of the ground interest rate tax on power plants up to 10 MW is a good example of that. On the right, it sees it as an important measure to exploit the expansions that have already been made, and there is also a strong signal that the Right will facilitate the further development of small-scale power plants in the future. We also see that many small-scale power plants face major challenges due to property taxes for municipalities. They have to pay property taxes on the basis of the investments and not on the basis of income. This creates a great deal of uncertainty for those who want to invest in small-scale power development and a great deal of inequality between developers. In Dirdal, Rogaland, there are two small power plants with an average annual production of 7.2 GWh, where one pays NOK 26 000 in property tax, while the other pays NOK 142 000. The reason for this is that different development costs provide almost six times as high property taxes. The Small Forces Association is now working to change these rules, and it will also be an important step towards boosting the profitability of small-scale industries. Norway has a high potential for renewable energy production. The government’s climate notification and the January 2008 Storting climate agreement indicate that Norway will realise 30 TWh new renewable energy production or energy use by 2016. The report «The Valuation of Small Power Plants» by Normann Aanesland and Olaf Holm from Ås in 2009 shows that the 22 small power plants involved in the investigation have a production capacity of 290 GWh, and it collects the nov value of the surplus for the builder, Small Power AS, and the fall owners total 1,03 billion. kr. Small Power AS has assessed the global potential for small-scale power plants in the country to be 20 TWh. Societal value creation can be achieved by expanding this potential, it is the surplus that can be achieved when all costs are covered. The present value of the annual surplus is estimated to be 70.8 billion. kr. The development of small-scale power plants can be considered as an alternative to food and district policy aimed at strengthening employment and busses in the relocation area. In business and district policy, a subsidy is used to strengthen bus pay. These subsidies must be tax financed and there is a distortion loss in taxation. In the case of small-scale deployments, this avoids the loss of tax distortion. If one led to a 35.4-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr, which is the expansion potential of 20 TWh, should have been given as a subsidisation to the district and that subsidies would have to be tax financed, it would cause a loss of social efficiency of 7.1 billion. kr. For society, the objective may be to have the most efficient use of resources. But society can also have a goal of strengthening or maintaining the busses in the districts. The report points to important aspects of these two options, efficient resource use and efficient resource use, in view of the need to strengthen business at municipal level. If we're going to build a lot of small power, we need networks that can transport the power to consumers and to customers where they are. It's a paradox that some of the countries that have the greatest potential also have the worst grid. Although many people want more gentle power grid deployment, there is no doubt that the vast majority also want a stronger network for example. to be able to connect to more small power. We see from the report to Anesland and Holm that there is a large potential from small power plants, and that this will be an important source of income in the districts. Unfortunately, lifting breaks and passive stops from red-green politicians have seen their tracks. Nor does the Government support the Right proposal to raise the land interest tax limit to 10 MW. This would allow many small power plants to make better use of their development and, at the same time, strengthen their income base. People think of the e-mail from former Secretary of State Guri Størvold in the Oil and Energy Department of the Centre Party member Egil Berge regarding small power and green certificates, where transitional green certification schemes were promised for all small power plants, rather than the 2009 elections. Instead of making the relationship easier for an important district industry, the government is sending a new tax bill to the industry. The only concrete signal in this year's state budget for the certification market is that the revenue from the translation of certificates should be considered as part of the basis for the rent tax. The leader of the Small Force Association comes with this heart sugar in new small power: ‘The whole industry is waiting in excitement for a concrete signal about the certificate market, and the only thing we're told is that the authorities will have their share of the cake.’ This, in my view, tells most of the things about tax-paying red-green politicians. Right wants to facilitate a viable agricultural industry, with the right of self-determination over ownership and freedom as a normal businessman, and we want to make it possible for income from small power to benefit the landowners and farmers. I have asked the Council of State questions about this through this interpellation and I hope, of course, that a positive response will be given to whether the Council of State will support the instruments to which the Right here refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e887	The interpellation of the representative, Bjørn Lødemel, contains two specific issues related to small-scale power. The framework conditions for small-scale power are not in my department's responsibility. If I were to interpret the question there that this is the representative's main concern, the interpellation should have been addressed to the oil and energy minister. However, I have interpreted the interpellation more broadly and have therefore chosen an approach where I would like to mention the conditions for exploiting the total resources allocated to agriculture in a more general way. Lødemel and I agree that agriculture is an important district industry and that the industry is creating major ring-fences for other businesses. I also want to add that the agricultural industry is important for rural settlements, and in many cases agriculture itself is the foundation for maintaining housing and ensuring viable communities. In recent years it has become an increasingly important part of agricultural policy to promote the development of new industries in addition to and in addition to traditional agricultural production such as cereals, milk and meat. The clear idea behind this is to promote a more robust, multi-legged agriculture, thus providing a broader income base and more income opportunities. This is necessary in a society where we are affected by international developments with increasingly efficient food production and falling real food prices. The emphasis on industrial development in agricultural policy has resulted in a diversity of industries linked to farming. As an example of this, I would mention that travel life in the districts traded for a total of 35 billion dollars. kr in 2008, of which farm tourism alone contributed with a turnover of 1 billion. NOK and 2,500 annual works. The turnover related to the sale of hunting, inland fishing and salmon fishing with ancillary services has been estimated at a total of 3,6 billion. kr in 2009 and the market is increasing. In addition, the tunnel now includes 850 farms providing services in the education, growth and health and social sectors, including labour training, dementia care and are learning and mastering arenas for children and young people. This government has also been concerned with the significant income opportunities for agriculture that lie in exploiting property-related fall rights. It is my clear opinion that small rivers and streams on agricultural properties are resources that have so far been used to a great extent too little. These valuable resources have also taken an interest in large power companies and other investors. The government is therefore committed to facilitating the development of landowners where the assumptions exist. And in cases where there are external investors entering, it is important that agreements between the landowner and the investor are concluded on the basis that the landowner will receive its legitimate share of the income from the fall right. For me, securing the income of the landowners from the fall rights will be a more fundamental and fundamental issue than whether all the small power will be subject to transitional schemes for green certificates or the taxation of small power. It is important to be aware that the development of small power is very profitable. Unlike most other agricultural productions — if we can use that concept — small labour is low in intensity and therefore offers relatively few jobs. The development of small-scale power, on the other hand, represents significant opportunities for increased incomes, which will obviously secure agricultural property as a job and thus help to ensure that the housing is maintained. I also note that the representative Lødemel and I agree that we should facilitate a viable agricultural industry with the right of self-determination over the property, and that farmers should be given freedom as self-employed workers. At the same time, however, we must be aware that owning an agricultural property also entails a responsibility towards the community. In many cases, this means that certain industrial regulation needs to be implemented in order to ensure that the various social objectives that are also reflected in agricultural policy are met. Furthermore, farmers receive substantial industrial support through the agricultural contract system, and then it is natural that society can impose certain conditions for support. I am thinking, of course, of all the common good that we want agriculture to contribute to producing. In the case of small-scale power, the regulation of such industrial activities is the result of a balance between a reasonable return on fall-rights and the amount to be attributed to the community. The basic interest rate, or tax on the yield of power plants, is designed neutrally and does not affect the investment incentives, and only the most profitable power plants will have to pay rent taxes. In other words, power stations with marginal or low profitability will not pay rent taxes. Furthermore, the entry point for the base rate tax is set at 5,5 MW power plants. Power plants with a power lower than 5,5 MW are free to pay base rate taxes. It will not be socio-economically optimal if the limit is set in such a way that very many builders adapt the performance of the power plant to be just below the border. The government believes that setting the limit to 10 MW would enhance the impact of such unfortunate adjustments. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is currently working on a new major communication on agricultural and food policy. How we can make it attractive for future generations to go into agriculture and pursue this profession as a self-employed person, while at the same time producing community goods for society, will be a central theme of the Communication. It is a far too simple analysis to claim that different regulation of the industry only represents obstacles to the freedom that is normally associated with being self-employed. We should be aware that the regulations, together with business transfers, also represent a security for the individual farmer. And then, finally, I would like to stress that the red-green government has just made sure that agriculture is nourished. As a result of agricultural settlements from 2006 up to and including 2010, the government has increased agricultural incomes by an average of DKK 90 000 per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e908	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer and for coming to the Stortinget to join in this debate. Small power is an important part of farm incomes, and it is an important part of very many landowners and farmers. We have had a number of discussions in this Chamber with another Minister, the Minister of Oil and Energy, and I thought it was very important that we could also take a debate with the Minister of Agriculture. So I'm very happy that he could come here today. I mean, that report from Anesland points to a very important point. It is amazing that the total equity from small power is as large as the equity base from the rest of agriculture for farmers. There is a lot of information about the potential of small force. Although it is disparate across the country, it is nevertheless a very important district industry. It's in that context that I can't really believe that the Central Party is no longer on the line when it comes to the challenges that small-scale industries have faced in recent times under the present government. We see in the nations on 4 May an interview with small-power owner Egil Berge on Sunnmøre, who slaughters the small-power tax. He says: ‘Falled’ tax rules for small-scale power plants provide less electricity per nature interference.’ One is also penalised by a ground interest rate tax, and one cannot be deducted from the rent of a fall right, etc. In Technical Weekleaf of 21 October Knut Bjorvatn, who owned Fosstveit, says: "The idea was to leave something to the grandchildren and their grandchildren. But the government makes sure that the only people who can afford to run small power plants in bad times are those who have municipal or state ownership – investors who have the back to carry the tough times as well.’ To what the Council of State said that landowners should own, we need to ask whether this is a willful development when we look at how the state treats important aspects, such as: the taxation of small-scale power plants. When it comes to other income pages in agriculture, it's interesting what I saw at NRK Sogn and Fjordane today. Where the minister once traveled around and spoke positively about garden brewery, etc., the Labour Party also shut the door quite effectively. I believe that the uncertainty created in relation to small power plants by breaking the green certificate promises, that one cannot help raise the rent tax from 5 to 10 MW, etc., is helping to create uncertainty in the whole agricultural industry. We can't live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e933	As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have a great deal of commitment to ensuring that agriculture is also an important district industry that employs many people and provides positive ring-fences for other businesses in the districts. I would like to stress that although the responsibility for the regulation in the field of power development is another department's business, and there is a balance here in this discussion, I am concerned with stressing that the development of small-scale power is relevant to many landowners and represents income opportunities in a particular class compared to most of the other industries. According to Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate, NVE, the potential for the deployment of small-scale power plants, including upgrading and expansion projects, is 16.5 TWh in total, while the potential for the expansion of power plants above 10 MW is estimated at 6.5 TWh. This means, of course, that the majority of new hydroelectric installations will be located in small power plants. Having said that, I would like to stress that it still concerns a minority of all owners of agricultural property, and secondly, the development of small-scale power can actually happen with the prospect of significant, long-term revenues with the framework conditions already established by the government today. If we are to manage to maintain a living agriculture throughout the country, it requires the sector to use its entire resource base to create jobs and profitable businesses. There is both the volume production of food and wood and the development of a wide range of other goods and services with farm resources as an input factor. Thus, the income base of many agricultural properties can be strengthened by exploiting the diversity of agricultural resources for new industrial activities, and then, of course, I also include all the material and human resources. Such an industry contributes to the management of key societal tasks, such as the Inn on Tunet services, and also provides a basis for local and regional interaction that all rural businesses can benefit from in their efforts to increase local value creation. The economic importance of complementary industries in single use has increased in recent years, and I am convinced that there is still a large and unsolved potential in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e940	The agricultural industry is such an important industry for our country that we can hardly pay too much attention to it. That is why I thank the interpellant for giving us this occasion today. However, in my view, these debates often give an excessive negative picture of the situation in Norwegian agriculture. I agree that profitability should be better. But we also need to be able to see what is successful in the agricultural industry. There are also many success stories here. Small power is an income option for some farms. I agree with the Minister of Agriculture's mention of those possibilities, and they must be exploited. However, this should not be referred to as the measure that saves the industry. Then the situation description is, in my opinion, for banal. Norwegian agriculture is facing major challenges. In a world that is starving, we must rely heavily on our own forces and resources. We also need to be able to increase food production as our growing population grows. We can succeed if we want to, and in doing so, Norwegian agriculture has great legitimacy in the Norwegian population. What's going to lift this industry in the future are young people with knowledge, skills and enthusiasm who will develop their uses, maybe go new ways. They can do so, among other things. because they are self-employed. We have to add the right framework conditions that make it possible. The wage-earning production of food — milk, meat and cereals — will be the pillars of a forward-looking industry. Pasturage, forestry and ancillary industries in the form of Inn on tuna, experience tourism, cabin construction and rental, small power, etc. I see myself as an integral part of an enlarged agricultural concept. All farm-related resources must be used and used in value creation. We have to set things right. The Minister for Agriculture referred to the work of a major communication on agricultural and food policy in his speech. I am happy to receive this message for treatment in Stortinget. Then the entire value chain from land to table, including the processing industry and forestry, will come to an overall debate in Stortinget. I look forward to a comprehensive debate, where we put the self-employed farmer in the centre, and where we are going to make things right so that agriculture becomes a more attractive industry than it is today. It is important that those in this industry be able to develop sustainable use with good profitability. In this picture, it would also be desirable to look at aspects of property legislation regulating the use of agricultural land. And maybe we need to look with new eyes on the sides of the tool use. I believe that we need to stimulate the exploitation of all the possibilities of use, as was done in Meldal during the preparation of the country's first agricultural plan. It gave results. I am not going to do this with the aim of cutting the instruments as the right parties do. I will facilitate growth and development, simplify the instruments and put them in where it serves value creation, growth and development best. In my view, it is the way forward for agriculture across the country with a varied structure of use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e961	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for a very important and good interpellation, which focuses on the poor policy of the red-green government. The Progress Party has been committed to developing more small-scale power for many years. This has been reflected in our policy in Stortinget. We have proposed to include small power in green certificates, while the Soria Moria statement keeps small power out of it. We have proposed that Enova's support for renewable energy should also include small-scale energy, which the red-greens refuse. We have wanted to advance the development of small power by moving the concession treatment to the municipalities and at the same time simplifying the concession treatment. We have accepted all the red-green proposals for tax consolidation for small-scale power plants, and we have been in favour of a network policy that ensures that small-scale power is guaranteed to connect to the grid. Local communities often find their ability to manage local areas, including industrial development, severely limited. The development of small, micro and small power plants is a loving contribution to local nutrition and to the national power balance. Technological development makes hydroelectric development increasingly environmentally friendly, including: in the form of less visible interventions in nature. Local nutrient development is important to maintain the policy objective of scattered settlement in the country. The use of own natural resources is a local measure that contributes to the maintenance of residence and entrepreneurial income and should be used to a greater extent than is currently done. Unfortunately, the government stops this fantastic opportunity by introducing rigid rules. A single market for the placing on the market of green certificates is a prerequisite for obtaining the necessary investment in renewable small power in District Norway. Development costs have increased dramatically in recent years, and NVE figures show that in many cost areas there has been a price increase of between 20 and 40 pst. in the last five years. This also has a dramatic effect on the profitability calculations for small power builds. In particular, this is important for landowners who themselves wish to build up their fall rights. The Progress Party believes that it has a self-esteem that the framework conditions ensure that these are able to do so, as this means that a greater part of the value creation remains on local hands and allows farmers to continue to live and operate the farm. These builders have a much more vulnerable capital base than, for example: major public-owned builders, and are far more dependent on the stability, security and predictability of the framework conditions. Nor in the 2011 State budget has there been any room for guarantees on the date of launch or any details on the content of the scheme. It is worrying for an industry that has largely been put on hold with vague demands for increased investment. In addition, it is regrettable that there is still no room for fulfilling previous political commitments on a transitional arrangement for previously built power plants. It is still the case that between 160 and 200 power plants built between 2004 and 2009 despite repeated promises, are not to be included in the scheme as outlined earlier by the government. For some of these, the operating economy is very marginal. Although the first bankruptcies have not yet arrived, an extended period of low prices of power, low production or other external factors could be the one that breaks some of them. It is a very sad outcome when you know that the construction of these has largely been based on confidence in political promises. Longer dry periods or other factors could lead to a wave of bankruptcies or transfers of them to public ownership, leading to difficult conditions for farmers wishing to continue their agricultural activity with support in complementary industries. The fact that revenues from the envisaged common certificate market with Sweden are to be included in the basic interest rate means that the Progress Party is found to be fundamentally wrong. This would distort the mechanism from the technology neutrality envisaged and would therefore not have the expected impact of the most profitable renewable projects being realised first. The small-scale industry warns against this and encourages this change before the adoption of the State budget. The real estate tax as it has been set up today is a significant burden on many new small power plants. As of today, the most expensive expansions, which initially have the most difficult economy, pay the most property tax. This is not only unfair but also very inappropriate. The taxation model for the small power industry has been selected specifically because it is simple and requires little administration. It is important that a replacement model also takes care of this, while at the same time ensuring that other problems of today's system are corrected. After today's model, two identical power plants with equal production and performance in the same municipality could have to pay very different taxes on property. For the developer to support problems in the ground or to spend larger sums on construction contributions, an already difficult economy could be overturned as a consequence. The real estate tax is a special tax for power plants that are largely profit-dependent. This is currently taking place for power plants with an installed power of more than 5 MW. The absence of bottom deductions from these power plants means that it is very profitable to deploy small power plants with generators of between 5 and 10 MW. We just have to record that the government's policy leads to a collapse of agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e997	The interpellant takes up a very important matter. It is well known that the agricultural industry is developing which is not at all in line with the rest of the economy in Norway. The interpellant deals in particular with small-scale power deployment, and that is of course a very important part of it. It is estimated that if we had built up the small power plants that it was reasonable to do today, it could be a source of income for the districts that are close to the total agricultural potential that exists today, and that is significant. So if the Council of State does not feel that it is his responsibility to do this, I hope he can pass it on to his colleague in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. At the same time, the Council of State defined that the questioner addressed an area that went beyond small power, and I would like to use it to say a little about milk production, which is another part of the agricultural industry that has a critical status. There have been very many small milk producers until today. There are very few of those who have the ability and the will to renew, and it costs too much. Then the result is that you try to co-operate. It has a number of advantages, but it also has the drawback that it turns out over time that the economy is becoming so bad that more and more people are dropping out. Building this standard was earlier, with 16 dairy cows, there's no profitability in it, it's reasonably safe. And when the aid schemes for the cooperatives then become so poor as to give up, the cultural landscape in Norway may look different in a few years' time. In August of this year, Namdalsavisa had an article about Salsne's co-operation, which was shut down after 35 years of operation. There the owner says: «We have calculated and calculated, but it is not economic to invest for further operations.» And then we know how it goes. When we know that the small uses don't have the power to modernise, it's going to be the end of the industry. Now I know that in previous debates the Minister of Agriculture and Food has said that this is a system put in place by a right-wing government, with Lars Sponheim as Minister. It may be that parts of this were introduced at the time, but the matter is that the development of costs has evolved quite differently from what we saw at the time. That's the one. The second thing is that when you see the negative effects, it might be timely to make a change. We therefore ask the Council of State to look at it again. Another thing that worries the Right even more about the agricultural industry is bureaucracy. In 1965 there was one agricultural bureaucrat per 100 operators of the industry. In 2008 there was one per five drivers. The number of agricultural holdings has fallen by 67 pst. in the last 40 years. The number of bureaucrats has risen by 40 pst. Does this sound reasonable? No, I think: one is the cost, which I come back to, but it is also the irritation for owners of agricultural property that is subject to restrictions, regardless of where they had to turn. And this is a matter that the Right is strong, strongly opposed. In a master's thesis that Linda Klem did in 2008, she found out that 4 billion. public funds go to agricultural management. Although all this is not from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, there is at least considerable Community funding. It's right-wing. When the right is criticised for its alternative budget, which reduces transfers to agriculture, among other things. The bureaucracy part of what we really want to cut down on. That's why I'm very pleased that the representative Arne L. Haugen says that we need to look with new eyes at the use of the instrument. I also hope that the Council of State will take on board this, and that we can get funding for the industry – not for the bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1017	It's an important issue the interpellant addresses. When an agricultural worker in Norway becomes very quick to realize that if one is going to have a good agricultural development, the combined use is important. The Minister had in mind the answer in his first post that it is important to see it with combination use in a broad perspective. Especially for me who comes from a country like West Agder: it wouldn't have been a lot of agriculture if we didn't take good care of the combination user. And this is the kind of debate we have here today: what kind of element can be in the organization we're going to do for the combined use? We have a wide range of measures we need to do to get a reasonable income for those who have the land in claim and who also have income from other occupations. And then we're talking about several things that apply to the tuna: it goes on tourism, it just goes without saying that we have different employment and other activities and other businesses in the districts and an active district policy that allows one to support agriculture, but also that agriculture can be viable enough to be the basis of other industries. It's a very important part of what it's going to be working on when we're going to start discussing the agricultural message here in the hall, just what should the combined use in Norway look like, what kind of framework conditions do we need to get good living conditions on the combined use in Norway? So it's that small power plants are very important for some uses. Therefore, the small power plant is one of many parts of a facade that we have to look at when we're talking about the combined use. Now it's the way that the development of small-scale power plants is one of the most profitable things to do when we get the green certificates in place. So I think there'll be a lot of other things in combination use that we need to focus on, as well as small power plants. For small-scale power plants, with the green certificates, will initially become fairly profitable and a good addition to the farmers who have the opportunity to participate in that expansion. Then I want to point to something that I thought goes back in more and more articles from the Right now. It is that they have adopted the slogan of the Advance Party to release the peasant. We can see here that what is going on is that the Right is turning to the rhetoric of the Progress Party when it comes to agricultural policy. Not only that, I assume that in this budget they provide an alternative where they do not support agricultural agreements. In this way, we feel that there is a rhetoric where, on the one hand, they weaken the basis of the agricultural industry, and then a rhetoric of all the other things that we're going to do in relation to agriculture. Then I thought they were missing having two thoughts in their heads at the same time. It is important that we facilitate combined use, but it is at least equally important that the basic activity of agriculture is supported by the public they need. Then you will not tear down the agricultural agreement or the legislation that makes farming pay off. In the rhetoric around this to release the farmer, I took up with the leader of the peasantry in West Agder how she viewed it as the Progress Party, and now also the Right, looking at it as coercion in agriculture. She said that there are many of us who realize that one has to put a little restriction on what each individual can do to make one as a group live well and have the freedom of a good life. That's exactly what we're seeing in the Right. Right is more concerned with following the Progress Party in adding the right economy for those who want to leave agriculture, rather than those who want to work in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1026	The centre party is engaged in the use of renewable resources across the country. Taking advantage of renewable resources to create renewable energy is not only good environmental policy, it will also contribute to creating values, activity, jobs and knowledge around the country. The small-scale industry is an important industry for the realisation of new renewable and climate-friendly energy. But let me underline how eye-catching it is that the representative Lødemel is now accusing others of not wanting industrial development related to small power in Building Norway. With all due respect, in Lødemel's own state, Sogn and Fjordane, not one of those who have such plans realizes their small power plants, because of a lack of power line to put the force on – a power line that the representative Lødemel was driving election campaigns to stop. This is not related. Let me also say that it is not surprising that the Right is struggling to know what agriculture is. As a mere factsheet, I can tell the representative of Lødemel that small-scale power and agriculture are two different industries. Therefore, the income base of small power will never be able to strengthen the income base of agriculture. This is pure bluff to the farmers that the Right should soon lay off. On the other hand, small-scale energy could help to strengthen agriculture. This is precisely what the government has put in place, through, among other things. green certificates. On the right, aid to agriculture will gradually decrease and proposed a cut in the agriculture agreement by 2.1 billion in 2010. kr. This corresponds to a reduced remuneration for labour and equity of approximately. 20 pst. in one year, or an income reduction of NOK 36 000 per year, as a starting point for a gradual degression. Then there's really little help in giving with one hand and taking with the other, as right here would do. The centre party will continue to work for agriculture in the future. We believe it is an industry that requires full attention both nationally and internationally. Agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. The main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population, and the risk of food crisis and climate crisis in the world underlines the importance of Norwegian food production. Unlike the Right, the Centre Party believes that food production is the basis of agriculture. In agriculture, it's from the soil values coming. Then it's a derailment to talk about strengthening the income base of other industries. This says a lot about the Right Agricultural Policy and confirms that agriculture is of little importance to the Right. A good income development for farmers is therefore the cornerstone of Norwegian agricultural policy. It is necessary in the interests of industry itself and in the light of the simple fact that income and well-being are essential in order for us to ensure continued recruitment to the industry. A viable and varied agriculture across the country is important for achieving the objectives of safe food, living communities and open and well-kept cultural landscapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1047	The interpellant takes up a matter that many, not only the interpellant, stumbles over. Agriculture needs more legs to stand on an economic level, and too many farmers are small forces an important source of income. Then it is strange that the government has destroyed the income base of many small power plants by breaking the promise so far about green certificates. Here there is as much oil and energy minister as the Minister of Agriculture who should be present in the Chamber. On 26 November 2009, a press release was issued by the Ministry of Oil and Energy that the transitional regime for the electricity certificate market is in place. I will not go into detail, but the press release that was sent out on 26 November 2009 is contrary to previous promises given to the small power industry. For the Christian People's Party, small-scale development and production are important district policies, important for agricultural policy and for energy and climate policy. That is why this is an important matter for us. Former Minister of Oil and Energy from the Christian People's Party, Einar Steensnæs, made the following promise in the OED strategy for increased deployment of small power plants in 2003: ‘There has been a signal that investments in renewable electricity generation are now stopping pending the establishment of a green certificate market. Investors fear that they will lose the opportunity to obtain revenue from the sale of certificates if they build installations before the certificate market is established. Such an investment stoppage is unfortunate, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy wants to motivate the rapid start of construction of new plants. On this basis, certification facilities with a construction start after 1 January 2004 will be issued with certificates, even if a compulsory electricity certificate market may be established after that date.» The promise was subsequently maintained and confirmed by the government sitting in St.meld. No 11 for 2006-2007, on the aid scheme for electricity production from renewable energy sources: ‘In the context of the preparation of a common Swedish-Norwegian electricity certificate market, transitional arrangements for hydropower and wind power were established. For hydropower, it was established that construction starters would be allowed to take part in the electricity licence market after 1 January 2004, if they were otherwise qualified. The corresponding provision was made for wind power on condition that they repaid grants from Enova that they had received during the period. The background to the transitional arrangements was that it was not desirable for the activity to stop pending an electricity licence market. The Ministry of Oil and Energy proposes that the transitional arrangements for all technologies be maintained pending the introduction of the aid scheme.’ The Government’s press release of 26 November 2009 restricts the right to come under the transitional regime from ‘all plants having a construction start after 1 January 2004’ to ‘water power plants with a construction start after 1.1.2004 and installed power up to 1 MW’. As the interpellant said, the consequence of the restriction is that only 35 out of 150 small power plants that were originally promised participation in the certificate market are included in the transitional regime. Intensification affects many builders, including many farmers, who have invested on the basis of previously issued guarantees from the Ministry. I would therefore like to turn a little bit on the question from the representative Lødemel: What is the Council's response to the farmers who are missing important incomes – not general incomes, but those who come specifically from power plants – and who are now considering whether to give up and lay down their farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1078	Agriculture is important throughout the country. At least there are a few of us here today, although not all representatives are able to talk about just agriculture. But how are we going to keep up agriculture in the whole country? Is it possible to keep an agricultural holding in the whole country if the market is to control everything on its own? Is market orientation of Norwegian agriculture the answer? No, no, no. Right is against the government's policy to keep the price of agricultural property down. The right has also been marked by the fact that they are more concerned with those who leave the farm than with those who are going into it. If a youth wants to become a farmer, he should compete with rich people who only want to spend a holiday home for a weekend, he will lose his youth. Then I agree with the representative Haugen that we must look at the ownership laws and adapt to the challenges of the future. So this is about what we want our country to look like in the future. Both the Right Party and the Progress Party will in reality put an end to Norwegian agriculture. The difference lies in complete closure immediately, which is the progress party method, and the Right's more slow strangulation policy, cf. what the municipalities were exposed to under Jern-Erna. But what policy should any new Right-Forward Party government pursue? What is quite certain is that the right-hand side of its agricultural policy will lead to a sharp decline in Norwegian agriculture, mainly rural agriculture. Then I have to admit that I am directly provoked by two aspects of the interpellant's question. One is the abuse of the word ‘freedom’. Equal opportunities are what give real freedom. Giving all equal opportunities is very far from the Right's policy. The second, cutting drastically in agricultural transfers, is not a good policy if we are to feed and feed an ever-increasing population. Nor is it a good policy to keep the cultural landscape at home or for our travel life effort. Enterprise policy across the country and ensuring that the pooling of resources related to Norwegian Guards is implemented are important. I want to show you here the overarching strategy for food development, Put the country into action!, the investment in tourism, food, bioenergy, forestry, Inn on tuna, inland fishing and organic farming. This is an example of the width of a future agriculture. Bets on fruits and berries in the West – such things help to develop salesable products related to travel life based on agriculture’s resources. One can also include small-scale power plants as a beloved additional income. All of these are things that I have suggested will be mentioned in the new agricultural message. Then I just have to go on the smile ribbon when the representative Lødemel, who built a whole election fight that he was going to fight for cable past Sogn and Fjordane and was against the airline and thus against more line capacity, now all of a sudden is busy that we have to build up several small power plants. Where would they have joined if the representative Lødemel had won his policy? There is no line capacity in Sogn and Fjordne for several small power plants, nor for several large business start-ups. The interpellant sat in a NRK studio no on Friday and was tired because the energy minister had said ok to the airline through the county, and that the construction start was all coming summer. The only thing I'm sorry for is that the building start decision hasn't come before. Cables had led to a severe delay. Green certificates will not be fixed on this. Then I have not said anything about the price tag Right and the representative Lødemel will send to the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane and our companies. Kabling would lead to a substantial increase in prices for our companies. The more connection points the more expensive it would be. Right would have changed the way Norway looks, forever. There is not much forward-looking travel policy with large-scale landscapes with so-called green tunnels. And what about the great natural interventions of building muffins to get the cabling in place? What tourists want to see is peculiar to us, with living settlements and animals grazing around the whole country. Then we still need a red-green government as a guarantor of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1101	This is a good interpellation that makes it apparent that the interpellant wants to facilitate a positive and forward-looking development of agriculture. What is being addressed in the interpellation is the ability of agriculture to use natural resources in a more active way than the current government provides. Unlike the previous speakers, I would like to commend the Council of State for at least demonstrating knowledge of the Right Agricultural Policy. We didn't hear that from the pulpit instead. Unfortunately, however, we also have to establish that the response of the Council of State is defensive in relation to the interpellation because the Council of State unilaterally points to the development of agriculture by state resources and is financed by state resources. That's the only criterion for development. The right has a completely different input into the debate. We want to make greater efforts to enable the owners of agricultural properties to take advantage of their commitment to action and their initiative to strengthen both property and industry. Unfortunately, the government has taken many steps in the wrong direction by taking from the farmers the opportunity to develop the resources on the property. Let me give you an example of what this government has done. It is guidelines for small hydropower plants. It states that measures in non-interventional natural areas conflict with national environmental objectives. Non-interventional natural areas, INON, include 70 pst. of the land area of Norway, so that it will itself limit the possibility in agriculture to exploit its own property. I have been informed that only in the Nord-Trøndelag is more than half of the most mature forest in so-called non-interventional natural areas, with associated difficulties in building roads to get this timber out. These are examples of how the current government limits the possibilities for agricultural development. It limits ownership and limits the motive for future generations to acquire and continue the property so that the next generation can take over the property in better condition, which is a claimed and good agricultural management principle. But this is eroded by the weakening of ownership by the government. That's what the Right Policy is all about. That's what this interpellation is all about. Here I would strongly urge the Minister of Agriculture to bring this issue into the government with strength and force, so that we can resist the pressure on ownership, which we have unfortunately seen weakened in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1112	Being consistent is important in the political debate. The interpellant shows a great commitment to small-scale power. We know that to realise the potential that lies in small power, we need to expand the power grid in the country. In particular, in the inter-pellant's home state, the lack of line capacity is a bottleneck for the development of small-scale power. One would then think that the interpellant had been involved in building up the power grid. But no, that's where the lack of consistency in Right Policy comes out so clearly. The interpellant has just shown itself to be one of the country's leading opponents of power lines. It is a clear fact that neither sea cables nor supergrid in the North Sea will help the small power industry. The regime that has now been notified of green certificates will largely meet landowners who have falling rights. Looking at the wording of the Soria Moria I Declaration on Green Certificates and what is now in agreement with the Swedes, you can see that the Central Party has reached and has been accepted for its policy in important areas. Nor should we underestimate the need to finally clarify the aid regime. A technology neutrality has been established. I believe this is more important than the promise of Steensnæs' time. I am also pleased that Loodmeal gives us the opportunity to discuss the Right Agricultural Policy. More people have been involved in this, including Representatives of Lange Nordahl. I agree to that. I was on Monday in a meeting with the farmers at Jären and discussed agricultural policy. There are good farmers who have faith in the future and who have invested. But it was a fear of what would happen if what is today's polls were to become a reality. For even large farmers in the Jären are dependent on a government that is willing to stand up for import protection, which is willing to stand up for food to be somewhat more expensive in Norway than in other countries. They must have a government that is willing to spend money to ensure national food production. For the farmers of the Jären, small-scale power generation is not an alternative. We've had a huge expansion of small power. When the scheme of green certificates comes into place, I hope and think we will have further development. The government has taken other important steps for the small power industry, including: strengthening their position vis-à-vis network carriers. We have built up the NVE's processing capacity, which means that we are now granting concession to several projects, and we are giving concession to the right projects. And once the power lines in the West are in place, we can get further progress in the development of small power. I hope the interpellant won't stand in the way for the country to have a proper line network. Because without power lines, all the world's subsidies don't help. For future small power builders in Sogn and Fjordane, a grid of lines is absolutely necessary. For those who have already built up small power in Sogn and Fjordane, it's important for their price development to put these lines in place. I hope that the representative Lødemel sees the lack of consistency in his own commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1129	I believe that the Right wants to facilitate a viable agricultural industry, with the right of self-determination over ownership and freedom as other economic agents as a political tool. Well, after 25 years in the industry, I'm going to mean that it's going to be quite demanding to have a viable agricultural industry all over the country if we're just going to follow Right's prescription. The right is for them to be concerned about agriculture, but the certainty of the political solutions is sadly poor. Few industries depend on policy objectives and necessary regulations such as agriculture. However, these objectives and regulations are still changing, and the framework conditions for agriculture therefore depend on those who have seen the political agenda. This is where the Right and Progress parts have a big problem. They are simply indifferent, both with the industry and their own voters. In the latest report on what current big business representatives have of attitudes and meanings in relation to agriculture, many interesting results emerged. In general, this room and these representatives are raising the number of agricultural policy tools that are currently being used to support the agricultural industry. But there is still a clear distinction between the Advance Party and the Right Party and the other parties. In line with its party programs, the Progress Party, but also the Right, is occupied by deregulation and by reducing government transfers. This is in so far as nothing new. However, there is a broad consensus among the population that food production should be regulated politically. Also among the Right's voters, there's a clear plural that still thinks he should be regulated. In contrast, when it applies to the populace in this room, it's just 36 pst and 36 pst respectively. and 16 pst. by the Right and the Progress Party of their representatives who believe that he should be regulated. There are some eye-catching representatives from the Right and from the Advance Party who believe that food production should be regulated – especially given that all other industrialised countries have a comprehensive regulation of food production. This is a phenomenon that we also see in relation to the agri-food industry. It is Norway's second largest industrial industry. A large majority of the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party disagree that securing framework conditions and import rules for the Norwegian agricultural industry is a political task. I further agree with the interpellant that the Right wants to strengthen the income base of the farmers by investing in small power. Yeah, I wrote that down. But the interpellant claims that government is destroying the revenue base of small power builders by saying no to green electricity certificates. That sounds weird. I'm probably the number five now that's on the speaker's chair, and I point out that right after that, they've lost everything they need when it comes to power issues in Sogn and Fjordane. Right, the most important electoral campaign was, and is still, to prevent the development of the infrastructure, the network, to carry the power produced. I want to point out a very serious situation: Sogn and Fjordane have Norway's oldest networks. It's 50 years old. The net's blown. The county has four times as much electricity as its consumption. It goes without saying that this has to be transported somewhere, but still the situation is so that we are at the limit of rations in dry periods, even if we produce four times as much as we use. The interpellant and the right are occupied with small force. That's good. The problem is not – as he suggests in the interpellation – a lack of effort on the part of the landowners. The problem is, like I said, the Internet. Right argues against renewing the network. In Sogn and Fjordane, small power plants are planned in almost every branch. It is planned small power plants corresponding to 5.3 TWh. It's similar to about five–six power build-ups, which don't get concession because the grid isn't in place. In this situation, the Right’s contribution is to talk about a Utopian sea cable around — and far past — sometime in the future. That's not the answer to the county's needs. It does not contribute to the production of new renewable energy; it does not contribute to the resolution of the energy crisis in Central Norway; it certainly does not contribute to strengthening the income base of agriculture. New renewable energy, such as small-scale power generation, can help to strengthen the income base, but then the Right must also help to increase grid capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1151	The background of this interpolation is small force. It is not within the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, so I do not see any reason to follow up that part of the issue. I have been listening to the debate. It's jumpy, superficial and full of politically correct speech – I'll say it like that. As a practice, it is not easy to say anything in this debate, because the politically correct map is increasingly poor in terms of the terrain. Strong farmers see this more clearly, and it affects the hope for the future negatively because skilled practitioners see the international situation, Norway's financial autonomy and the fact that we have majority rule. I won't say much. I just want to say that something has happened – last week in Trøndelag. It has been alarming that the Agriculture Director of Trøndelag no longer manages to hold back his frustration, but appears to have to go out publicly and proclaim that they will make their own state-owned description of the reality of agriculture in their area of responsibility. I would encourage more agricultural directors to do the same. So we can get a real debate about reality and the way forward, and there are many of us who want to participate in that discussion, on the real premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1160	It is a strange experience in Stortinget to hear the representative of the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtigen holding about the post I had intended to make, at least in the case of the example. It is quite right, as the representative Lundtigen says, that this has been the correct political speech. The example he mentions, whether the agricultural directors of the Trendelag, who draw the foundations of policy into doubt, are incredibly important. The right has itself raised this issue through articles, including: in the nations, and by participating in the public debate by other means. So I'm definitely joining Lundtigen's posts here. I see that he's on a complete collision course with his fellows in the government, but I think it's good to be freelance in this area. And it is completely colliding with what one of the previous speakers is talking about, that the Right does not want any political regulation of agricultural policy. It's completely wrong. Yes, it's true that we want to change the device, but we're talking about a total of 20 billion. kr, directly and indirectly, used politically for food production, processing and agricultural production. What the right wants to change is relatively small. Using this debate, which concerns small power plants, to give a disaster description of what would happen if we were to get another government where the Right might even be the dominant party, is on the edge of being unaccountable. When speakers like Lange Nordahl and others say that it is a derailment of the debate to discuss small power plants because you make money because they are good results, I wonder. Because in the introduction, the interpellant says that – and the Minister of Agriculture is also aware of this when he believes that others might want to respond better to this: "Every year we see that many gardening uses are being reduced and uses are being moved away and standing empty." Perhaps not a good neuron, but perhaps a very good description of what is the situation in Norwegian agriculture, what is the background to the interpellant's concern, and what is the background to the fact that he wants bi-nutrition to be more profitable. Then it's strange to hear representatives from the Center Party, excluding Lundtigen, say that this pays off for good, this is on the side of what we're going to discuss. No, let's discuss what might be good for Norwegian agriculture, what might be good for secondary industries, for supplementary industries, instead of using such a good opportunity to scare with what might happen if we were to get another regime, for which I perceive that the representative Lundtigen is almost a spokesman for the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1177	I must agree with the previous speaker that following the debate is really a strange experience. You get the impression that you're talking about skyscrapers in front of your eyes, and you're going back into the future with those in front of your eyes. Then there'll be a lot of waves of it. I think it is particularly important to hear Heggo say that it is not acceptable for farmers to compete with rich people, when we have just seen Statskog's purchase of Borregaard's forests, where the state has bought out rich people at a price that is beyond any possibility for most others to buy. It will be fun to see the accounts of Statskog when they begin to resell forests under conditions applicable under the concession law and price regulation. Then I think we can look far after the returns in the state forests for a while to come. I must also say that it is a strange experience to see that there is no record of development in the industry. One has an agriculture that is soon based on rentals — i.e. Renting – you have an agricultural sector that is unable to recruit younger people into the industry and you have an agricultural sector that is unable to recruit investment – and that in a situation where agriculture could actually have been a success story. The farmer has been incredibly nice, he! He may have increased his productivity more than any other profession in Norway, he has even survived political shifts and political decisions. Not many people can do it, most people move out if you have to live with the framework conditions that the farmer has to live with. He's a research success story. The farmer has produced new varieties that have caused the industry to produce a lot larger quantities of the same area. All of this is really what Norway has in mind to produce more well-being, but agriculture has managed to make it a loser's story. That is the policy that has been pursued, because all forces are used to fight against natural development. Productivity growth means one thing when you keep the farm in constant size: either you have to get out of the farm and find other work there over time, or you have to be allowed to increase the area, because for each year the farm will give less and less work. That's exactly what we're seeing. We soon do not have full-time farmers left in Norway. If this is the desired development, we will have to discuss an agriculture based on it, then, but then actually agriculture and farm activity are more dependent on having alternative employment in the neighbourhood, and not the level of support. The level of support also means that industry is strongly controlled, and in part many farmers have been led into misinvestments that will be difficult – and a great responsibility for society – to get them out of the way again. That is the reality. The farmer is very rational, he follows the signals, but the government has put up systems that make him invest incorrectly. One should actually talk about the success story of Norwegian agriculture, but one does not. In order to arrest the Minister of Agriculture, who repeatedly says that the level of transfers justifies the regulation of agriculture: I have said many times to the same Minister of Agriculture that forestry is not covered by it. Forestry does not have transfers, and it is not possible to justify regulation in relation to forestry immediately. I had expected that the proposition that came around Statskog's purchase had contained some thoughts about it, but it does not. But I'm going to discuss that with the Council of State on Thursday to the week that comes. Then we'll have a good opportunity to go into it. So to small power: Small power is also a hugely important co-nutrition for many, and a great potential that many can grasp. But there is also the best way to do this by weakening the equity base in the industry. Agriculture pays 10 pst. of the taxes on wealth in Norway, where the red-green government has doubled the taxation of working capital. It's a paradox as to what the Center Party is flying around and talking about. There has been a breach of promises since 2005, and there is a development in which professional operators buy out the fall rights, and the farmer dares not bet himself. Therefore, the interpellation is very timely. Right have policies in all these areas that will create optimism outside the farmers. I miss the fact that the red-green politicians soon take care of the skyscrapers and discuss from the realities that are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1194	The debate here is at the intersection of agriculture and energy, there is no doubt about it. When the Council of State chooses to hold still, I guess he's also prepared for a lot of small power. This is about, as I interpret the starting point of the interpellant, the role of small-scale power as a strengthening of agricultural incomes. Turning this into a debate on Right Online Policy will be a cheap excuse for the Red-Green parties to defend the policies they have pursued for five and a half years. The right will be allowed to respond to its own online practice, but I have to ask what the government has done in the five and a half years to realize these network projects. There has been a very bad process on the one we now have in Hardanger. Ørskog–Fardal has also not been speeding through in a good way, even though it was already said in Odd Roger Enoxsen’s time that it was an urgent matter – it was about resolving the Middle Norway situation. So the government has more to answer for here, it can't just owe it to Right Election. We should remember that the leader of the Small Forces Association, Trond Ryslett, said – in his own magazine, so he has not been misplaced – that the effort on small power in Norway takes place despite, and not because of, government policy. The farmers around the country who have dared to bet on small power have done so because they themselves believed it, not because they have felt that the policy has facilitated it. The problem in this case — and that is part of the essence of whether farmers and people in the districts should dare to invest in alternative sources of income — is that trust in the system has disappeared under the red-green government. Not only the energy minister Einar Steensnæs at the time, but a total increase said that all the technologies that ended up in the final certification system would be included in a transitional system. The red-green batches promoted in opposition even proposals to that effect. Many believed it and invested in small power plants, but when the scheme came into place – well delayed because of red-green root – they still could not be in the scheme. It's a warning to those who have access to capital in the districts, that you can't trust the government even if the government says the right words, because when the practical policy is put into practice, it becomes something completely different. This is a challenge, not because many have gone bankrupt, because they have not, but many players have started selling their power plants – they will do it before they go bankrupt. Who's buying them? Well, it's a publicly owned power company, and it's capital investors. Is that how we believe in the development of the districts – that it is state-owned, public companies that are going to bring capital and buy up the income potential of the local landowners? If that's the government's policy, that's a fair position, but that's not how I thought it would be when we were going to get local self-government, when we were going to get local entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs around the country to use the whole country. That's the government that's why green certificates haven't started, today. When Geir Pollestad, former State Secretary at the Ministry of Oil and Energy, talks about how fine it will be when green certificates come in place, it is worth remembering that this government's Soria Moria I statement did not include small power plants in the certification system. Specificly in Soria Moria I, only micro- and mini-power plants, not small power plants, were to be included in the certification scheme. The government has not lifted a finger to get small-scale power plant investments up in the districts, rather on the contrary. Enova has no incentive to stimulate small power plants. The case-handling period for small power plants is five to six years. The government has voted against any proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party to delegate the proceedings down to the municipal level in order to advance it. The only thing that the government has clearly defined in terms of the small-scale scheme to be applied in 2012 is that the tax system, where the government will take more of the revenues from the small-scale power plants, is not what the rules should be like in order to obtain the green certificates, and things like that. We see that the first thing they offered was that you should also tax the green certificate income. So it's not about stimulating, it's about taking away those who invest in small power plants. What I had hoped the Council of State would come with today was precisely a clarification of what measures are being taken to make it easier to build these small power plants, to remove the processing time, to get more local autonomy, so that we do not end up with what I see on the front page of the Address Paper today, that environmentalists from the Association of Nature Conservation are trying to sabotage this. We know that the Federation of Nature Conservation through membership that has strong contacts in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and also in the Ministry of Environment, with the former head of the Federation of Nature Conservation as Secretary of State. That gives cause for concern, and that should be taken into consideration by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1215	It was good for the right-wing representative Solvik-Olsen to take this debate back to what was the starting point, the challenges that lie in small-scale power and the opportunities that exist when it relates to agricultural incomes. The representative of Haugen, named agricultural message. It is clear that this may be a start to the debate we are going to have on the new agricultural message. So it's been good temperature. The representative Holmelid sees it as a problem that there is a surplus of income from small power. I don't fully understand that. I will in fact still claim that the honourable 'Let go of the peasant!' is the right-wing statement, and I am proud of it. The representative, Lange Nordahl, had a round of power lines, and that's what I'm going to end with. Ingrid Heggø had the same idea, but she also came up with a case in our own home state that goes on price fixing of agricultural property, where a buyer and a seller have been a few about a price, and Jölster municipal government goes in and rejects the sale because the price is too high. The representative, Ingrid Heggø, does not see how this affects private property law. So a garden that's been cultivated through generations, public authorities are supposed to prevent one from getting a price that buyers and sellers are interested in. I think that's very doubtful. When it comes to powerlines, I want to spend the rest of my time refuting completely incorrect information and claims from, among other things, Ingrid Heggø and representatives from the Center Party. On the right, there has never been an option that provides stronger networks in Sogn and Fjordane. Right-wing has wanted a sea cable option with a connection point on the coast, which, with an upgrade of existing grids, would also have been a good solution for small power deployment. Talking about the signatures and the right has a fight against a reinforcement of the Sogn and Fjordane lines is therefore totally wrong. If one looks back in history: The Enoch promised an action plan for the power situation in central Norway, which would also include Ørskog-Fardal. Åslaug Haga promises that there will be new guidelines before dealing with cases of Ørskog-Fardal and Hardanger. Right would also have new guidelines for this. What we see here, is a total exodus of the Center Party's failure all the way back to 2005, when one did not get the debate we see today. Now we see that there has to be new rounds in Hardanger. We see that an impact assessment is to be carried out when it relates to a sea cable between Hjørundfjord and Ørskog, and I think that is a good example of the Centre Party's failure, even when it concerns powerline policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1230	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the inter-pellation, and not least I would also like to thank the participants in the debate on a little long Friday afternoon for an interesting debate. As I started by saying in my first post, there are many additional industries that could have been discussed a little bit more thoroughly, including from my side. But according to our responsibilities, part of the debate that has taken place here must be brought together with the Minister of Oil and Energy. So I'm not going to go into it so much as to stress that when I'm working on the new gross domestic product message, I'm obviously busy getting focus on volume production, but at the same time the opportunities that lie in the ancillary industries, and not least in the small-scale effort that should happen in the whole country, where there are opportunities for it. At the same time, I would like to stress that the framework conditions for small power are quite good today, and there is a good opportunity for many rightholders to create an additional income that ensures the basis for the food production that takes place on the use they own and on the property they own. I have also stressed that in many ways there is agreement between Solute flour and me in describing what the agricultural industry is, and that we want a viable industry where the farmer has the right to self-determination over his own property. But at the same time, there are major differences in the policy between the Red-Green Government and the Right, which we must be aware of. I think in a sense that when the representative fleet says that we are talking here about direct and indirect transfer in the order of 20 billion. kr, then the 2 billion proposed in the right-hand side is relatively small. But when we know at the same time that it says on the Right's website that they want to weaken import protection, we see that in addition to cutting subsidies, you will get a lower price on the food you sell. Of course, there will be clear reductions in the income of Norwegian farmers, and with reduced earnings it is clearly more difficult to implement investments, for example. for own final use, or in small power, which requires significant investment funds. So such changes to the agricultural policy proposed by the Right will follow the law of the large numbers, which will mean much more a reduction in the incomes of agriculture than an adjustment to the framework conditions for small-scale power generation. Then I could plan to discuss the situation in the North-Tronde Team both with the representative Myraune and with the representatives Fleet and Lundtigen, who are obviously very much in agreement right now with the situation. There I would like to say that the knowledge of the Nord-Trøndelag lies with us from the Nord-Trøndelag, even if what the agricultural directors of Trøndelag have requested – they themselves made an agricultural message that describes the situation in the Nord-Trøndelag – and the situation is not as the two representatives describe it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1244	The President would just like to point out that the budget debate is taking place on about two weeks in this room. That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1252	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1260	During the debate, a proposal from the Left has been put forward. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in the creation of a common Norse imamutation.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1287	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inbjørg Vosskensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, from Freddy de Ruiter on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Center Party and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, is included on pages 2 and 3 of the vote, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The majority approves project fv 469 Hidra continental connection in Flekkefjord municipality in West Agder as explained in Prop. [[2009-2010]] 158 S
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1313	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Center Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The majority agrees that the toll company is allowed to borrow to advance the construction of fv 469 Hidra continental link, between Kvellandstrand and Bukstad, and to collect tolls for partial toll financing of the construction under the terms of Prop. [[2009-2010]] 158 S and Innst. [[2010-2011]] 44 S The President assumes that the Left supports the proposal. The proposal replaces the setting recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1336	After that, proposal No. 2 has now been adopted, the recommendation of the Committee shall be deemed to have lapsed. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-12.ana.ud1042e1350	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
