ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e26	Representatives Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Gunvor Eldegard, Borghild Tenden, Jørund Rytman, Oskar J. Grimstad, Akhtar Chaudhry, Erling Sande, Bjørn Lødemel, Øyvind Korsberg and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e63	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament tomorrow Thursday – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is unanimously elected president of tomorrow's meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e75	The representative, Jon Hunter Gåsvatn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e78	On behalf of the representatives of Morten Stordalen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I have been delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to remove the age limit for licensing doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e83	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e86	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Per Sandberg, Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I am delighted to propose a proposal to strengthen the rights of veterans following international operations, changes in the Defence Personnel Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e92	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e95	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Ib Thomsen, Mette Hanekamhaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal to lift the ban on professional boxing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e100	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e112	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Tora Aasland, Anniken Huitfeldt and Rigmor Aasrud will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We'll start with the first main questions from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e121	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal. The Ministry of Innovation is responsible for ICT and its coordination between departments. The parties talk about being a leader in the field of ICT. At the same time, we all know that there are major problems with the introduction of new ICT systems in the different departments and departments. The Ministry of Justice is struggling, Nav is struggling with constant exceedances, and the State Road Service is also struggling with constant exceedances. The defense has worn out and may still wear. We also know that there's a rush with systems that don't talk, and that's what you have to solve, and you can't see that it's necessarily going to be the result. Last year and in the past, the government didn't even know how much the government spends on ICT. The question is whether all the departments are floating around in their own world and billions are rolling out without seeing large or visible results or improvements, because ever-new challenges are emerging. So it might be interesting to know if the Council of State is satisfied with the situation, and if the Council of State feels that she has taken responsibility. Does the Council of State feel that all billions that have rolled out in recent years have contributed to the renewal and efficiency of the public sector? Do the government councils now know how much ICT actually spends every year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e132	There is no doubt that there are major challenges to ICT use in the public sector, because we have many old systems, as the representative Hoksrud says, that do not talk together. For this reason, a significant effort has been made on an ICT policy base, by adopting common architecture principles that will make new systems have to deal with other systems in a completely different way than before. We have also assumed that we should use so-called open standards, which means that systems will have to be able to provide data to other data where necessary. Unfortunately, not all computer systems are built according to these principles. It will take time for all the old ICT equipment to be replaced, so that we can get the improvements that are desirable. So it's done a lot of good work in terms of ICT in the country. Among other things, we've got the eID in place, which is a huge success. There are many, many tens of thousands of new users every month. It has been a very good help in getting secure communication with our users about ICT systems. The tax rate is a good example of what we do with the tax return. 800 annual works are saved in the Tax Agency to punch in tax returns, which are currently used for control. The loan fund may report similar developments. The new pension system has a surprisingly high level of applications submitted electronically, and many – over half – of those applications can also be developed and processed without using case-handling capacity on them. ICT is an integral part of the budgets of each activity. Therefore, we do not have detailed knowledge of ICT operating costs, but there are thus overviews – I do not have them in front of me here now – that show how much we spend on ICT investment each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e143	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, although I did not realize that she answered my questions. Governments are talking about all the good things. We agree with them. That's good. The challenges include: at Nav, and we have the State Road Service that has major challenges and large cost exceedances. Governments do not respond to how they intend to solve these challenges. Then I asked the Council of State if she feels that she is taking responsibility, whether she feels that all the billions that have rolled out in the last year have contributed to a real renewal and efficiency of the public sector. I also wondered if the Council knew how much you spend on ICT every year. And then the state council says, well, we have some numbers of what we spend on investing. Last year, however, the last Minister of Renewal promised that we would get numbers on the table – if it is 6.5 billion. kr, or if it's 75 br. kr, which some claim to use ICT every year in the public sector. So the municipalities have hundreds of different systems that don't talk to each other. It is something that the Council of State has to take on board, if one really believes that one has to solve the challenges and be sensitive to ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e150	It is difficult for me to take responsibility for previous ICT investment in the country. What we have done now is that all new ICT investments are within my department of quality control, so that we ensure that the basic principles that I talked about – architecture, open standards – are respected. This means that, in the long term, we are going to have a much better ICT system across departments. There are multi-storey challenges. There are ICT systems that are old, that need to be developed. Nor is it the case that ICT systems are shelf products. They have to evolve. Nav is making great improvements in its ICT systems. The pension system is a good example of that. It works fine, and it's become a user-friendly and good system. But there are major challenges, both in Nav and in other agencies, before we're in place. So it's like we don't have any problems finding numbers of what you're using to invest in the state. I would like to come back to the representative Hoksrud with that. However, ICT operating expenditure should be part of the overall set of thoughts that each establishment has on how best to use the means at its disposal. ICT expenditure is therefore not necessarily recorded in own accounts, and therefore we do not have a complete statement of operational expenditure. Then I agree with Hoksrud that it is a challenge for us that we have many municipalities with many different ICT systems. This is why my department, together with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the KS, has started a work, set up a working group, together with some large municipalities, to see if we can get more consistent solutions in the municipal sector. I think it is absolutely necessary, both for example. The interaction reform must be a success and in order to achieve more coherent ICT systems throughout the public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e161	It opens for three follow-up questions – first Bente Thorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e164	In 2010, a broad church effort was started to develop a common ICT strategy for the Norwegian Church, in cooperation with the Church's Employers' Association and the Church Council. The aim is to ensure better coordination, better services and more effective administrative functions of the Church. The question is whether the State Council will ensure that this project receives the necessary funds from the State budget. In previous questions about operating grants to the Church, the Council of State has been very clear that it is important that the Church operate as efficiently as possible and get the most back for the money. So now I'm excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e171	The President will recall that follow-up questions will focus on the theme raised in the main question. It is up to the Council of State to choose whether she will answer, for this is clearly outside the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e174	ICT used in the Norwegian Church is an important tool for the Norwegian Church to operate more effectively. The Norwegian Church consists of very many units, enterprises organized at municipal level. The parish is the basic unit of the Norwegian Church, while the state has its shares in the exercise of the administrative branch of the Church. That's why it's important that we put in place a strategy plan that allows us to see these elements together. For here, as in the public sector, if each local unit makes its own ICT strategy, things will not be linked. Therefore, my ministry has contributed funds to the Norwegian Church, so that a strategy plan can be developed. It's about to get into place. When it is in place, it will be up to the Norwegian Church to allocate the operating appropriations the Norwegian Church has, and see if it is appropriate to spend more money on... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e179	The president thinks there's something wrong with the census. It's been a little over a minute, but please, the Council of State can end its sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e183	We will come back to give special leadership to the use of ICT by the Norwegian Church. But I think, on the basis of church democracy, that the Church itself should decide how to use its operating appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e188	Lars Myraune – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e191	In spring 2009, the Ministry of State appointed a sample to look at the expansion of broadband in Norway. The report was entitled ‘Measures and instruments for wider broadband’ and concluded that broadband infrastructure is a prerequisite for an efficient and well-functioning economy and for achieving key objectives of societal development and that it should be considered as a basic infrastructure in line with road, water, etc. The working group recommended setting targets for development in Norway of a minimum of 5 MB on mobile broadband and 50 MB on fixed broadband. It's not exactly huge goals, but they were at least presented. In the autumn, we have been analysed to show that there are very large differences in development in Norway. Has the Council of State intended to do something about this sample that made its recommendation a year ago, and why haven't we heard anything in a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e196	There is no doubt that broadband is an important social infrastructure in Norway. Getting enough broadband in Norway is important for us to be able to develop in all parts of our country. Norway has a very high broadband coverage compared to a very large number of European countries. I am constantly discussing with the industry whether to set fixed targets for what capacity is desirable in Norway. What I'm registering is that there's a very rapid development. So what we might set as a goal, can be very quickly challenged by the need for both increased and perhaps even less capacity, because we're finding new ways of sending data. The government has spent about 1 billion. kr to get broadband out to the places that the market has not taken. What I think is the most important single piece now to get more broadband, is the so-called digital dividend, which the Department of Transportation is going to have an auction in very soon. This can help to increase our capacity in areas that otherwise do not have coverage. That's our main strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e205	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e208	In response to the representative, Hoksrud, the Council of State says that the government has major ICT challenges. There is no doubt about it when we read the National Audit Office's report, summarising fundamental and serious government data security deficiencies. It has been discovered that the government does not have an overview of the number of computers in the government system being hacked or what information has gone wrong. The state councils have taken action. A review of the National Safety Authority has been requested because you want an instant report, as you say to the media. Since you said this to the media, over one million emails have gone into this system. My question is, when will this instant report come, how many hackers can the Council of State sit and know?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e213	The President must remind us that, even in the spontaneous Question Time, the speech must be made through the President – for the sake of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e216	There is no doubt that I take the Riksrevisions report very seriously – and there is reason to do so. The main findings, mentioned in the press, were now linked to the safety of the ministry’s network in 2008. Then, in both 2008 and 2009, the revised national budget provided additional money, so there is reason to believe that security is significantly better now than it was when the uncontrolled event occurred. Still, I think it makes sense to get someone from outside to go through our system. That's what we're doing. I also want a consultant to review the measures proposed to ensure quality. There are a lot of emails coming to the department every day. So in one month, 200 million e-mails come to the department. 198,5 million are taken from spam filters. We have security procedures that capture a lot, but we have to make sure that we have an acceptable level of security in our network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e223	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e226	I have a question for the Minister of Research. Despite the government's promise to increase the funding for research in the coming years, proposals to the government budget show a real decline. Despite the Prime Minister's praise of knowledge in the new year – I think he repeated the mantra «Knowledge trumps everything» about. 20 times – it does not appear that the Minister of Research has had any impact on the government’s budgetary conferences. Nevertheless, when the State budget was presented, the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen and Tora Aasland were apparently enthusiastic about their own budgets. According to the Ministry of Knowledge's own press release, they state: ‘We are pleased that the government within a tight budget has chosen to give priority to the most important for the future knowledge sector’. Now analyses by NIFU STEP show that this is not at all the case for important research fields, which have a real decline in appropriations. This is the opposite of what the government has promised, and the opposite of the offensive investment in research that we see in many other countries. Most countries have major economic problems, but still are able to prioritise research, because it is considered an investment in future knowledge and value creation. Even in the United Kingdom, where public budgets are cut by 20 p.m., research is protected. There will probably be no increase, but neither will there be in rich Norway in 2011. In fact, the research budget is the weakest in 10 years according to NIFU STEP, and Norway is already the worst in the Nordic region and below the average in Europe. How on earth can the Minister of Research be satisfied with this embarrassing government breach of promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e238	It's correctly observed that there's a real decline of 0.13 pst. in the 2011 budget, as it now stands. There's still reason to dedramatize this something, I have to say. This real decline is mainly due to exchange rate changes linked to the payment of international quotas. The second thing that is important to be told by me is that in recent years, at least from 2005 until now, this government has actually increased its research appropriations by 50 pst. There's been a formidable increase, corresponding to a real growth of the entire 27 pst, and that's one of the areas that's increased the most. So we are very proud of the increase, and the fact that we now have a slight decrease in 2011, of course, does not mean that we consider the job of prioritizing research over the years to be done. Of course, we need to invest in research in the years to come, so that there will be growth in the future as well. What the representative points out is that this is the ‘weakest’ budget in ten years, as it is said, is a claim that definitely has to be taken with a pinch of salt, because it is the weakest growth in ten years. The budget itself is one of the highest we've ever had, and so we're keeping a high research budget, almost 24 billion. kr. But it's true that growth is weak, it's roughly equivalent to what it was when the Right had the Research Minister just before 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e246	I understand that the Council of State is committed to de-dramatizing this situation, but it is the government itself that has promised that the budgets will increase in the years to come. I assume that the government has promised it because the government has realized that it's important, and so the same thing happens in every country around us. It may not help to have a budget that grows over time, if everyone else grows more – so we lose ground. The Director of the Research Council has stated that when the State budget represents a real decline in research appropriations, it means that ‘we do not take advantage of our strong position in investing in future value creation’. The head of the Research Association states: ‘This confirms our analysis of the failure of the red-green government to achieve its own objectives.’ So when the Minister of Research himself has said that research is a budget winner, there is reason to ask if the Council of State has a completely different opinion than all those out there in the field who have the shoe on, and know where it prints. How can the Council of State see that research is a budget winner in the 2011 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e258	I've never said that research has been a budget winner in terms of the 2011 budget, but I insist that research has actually been a budget winner for all years up to the year we are in, and we stay at the high level. I am proud that we are able to keep a level of approx. 24 B.C.E. kr in public research. Where we have a challenge, is in business research, because it goes down even further. The small decline of 0.13 pst. As we talk about in 2011, I believe that as long as we also re-prioritize in research and for example. contribute to an increase in the free programme support available to the Research Council in 2011. This is a long-term shift from research environments, and I'm very happy that we've got it. We have also succeeded in continuing to strengthen polar research. But it's over the period we have to be judged, it's over the period of government we have to see if we can still keep the growth of research that we've made up to now, and whether we can not just keep the high level, but increase it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e263	There will be four additional questions – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e266	There are a lot of good words about betting, about stimulating research, and then I'm going to record that the Council of State will dedramatize when it stops. There's obviously a mismatch in the use of words here, and that's cause for concern. It may have been a lot of effort, but it's a fact that it's still this year, and it's a fact that they're worried about the research. It is that universities and colleges are an important part of this environment, and they are rewarded after three things. That's the basis, that's the study score, and that's the research piece. When it comes to research, it's a closed bag, which means that the more it is now delivered at the university's research, the less they get paid for every thing they do, and some even experience increasing the research bit, but getting less money. Does the Council of State think this is an incentive that stimulates increased research?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e271	I think so. I think this is an incentive that contributes to an important competition, and there are clearly other sources of research as well. But when Harberg asks me this question, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the 2011 budget is a tight budget. There are many people who haven't gotten an increase. What we have chosen for research and higher education is to increase the number of places of study. With 2,200 new places of study, we have an increase that will also lead to an increase in student credit and thus to revenue within the open framework of universities and colleges. So here the government has a difficult choice between what to bet on growth in. Then there has been a focus on growth in places of study and higher education, and that in itself contributes to the fact that universities and higher education institutions are also stimulated for their research activities by the fact that they have now undertaken to train more students.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e276	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e279	One of the methods of increasing nationally available research funding is to draw more money from the Seventh Framework Programme of the EU. However, the situation is also worse in Norway. In the sixth round we got 83 pst. again. In the seventh round, which we're now inside, we've paid 9 billion. So to be a part of it, it looks like we're going to end up with less than 83 pst, while the other countries in the North are picking up more than they are actually paying in. One of the reasons for this is that Norwegian institutions themselves have to pay 33 cents for each krona they receive from the EU in self-financing, while the same institutions receive between 0 and 16 cents in reward over the budgets of the Storting. This has been said by the Council of State for the Newspaper on Tuesday, 12 October 2010 that she wants to do something about it. I fully agree that this should be done. When and how will the Storting be invited to participate in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e284	EU research is important for Norwegian research environments, and I share the representative's concern that we do not have as much left for what we might have wanted. But there's a bunch of things that we're left with for what can't be measured in heads and ears. It is our participation in major research programmes, and it is our ability to influence what EU research programmes should contain. We are very happy that we have managed to get to, for example. marine and maritime research as part of the future research on the framework programmes. We are constantly working towards the EU in simplifying the procedures to which the representative refers, and I can also confirm that I am one of the state councils that actually meet in informal ministerial conferences in the EU and use the opportunities very actively to influence the EU system to make fair simplifications in the systems we are facing. It's complicated systems, and I know that they can give a little bit of an unfair look.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e289	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e292	As others have said before me, many are now calling for the investment in research that our nation needs. And it's probably a mystery that the government hasn't fully used its economic space to bet on research in the time they've run. That might suggest a little bit of future thinking, and that the government is living in the present. Governments argued that the share of industry has fallen. I get strong feedback from the industry in the South that the innovation apparatus, the research apparatus, is not adapted to modern business. It's incredibly difficult to get support for the projects you want. It's an incredibly complicated system, and it doesn't fit how you have to think out of the business unit. So my question to the government council is, will she contact the big business clusters now to find out if we have an apparatus that allows the research that business needs to actually be realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e301	I think it is quite remarkable that the representative says that this government has not invested in research when we have actually increased the appropriations by 50 pst. from 2005 until this year and a real growth of 27 pst. There is hardly any other sector that has had such an increase. And we're keeping the high level -- we're doing -- and we're doing research for a lot of billion dollars. But it is quite right that the representative says: we lack an even stronger commitment from the business community. I was at SINTEF yesterday, and there they are very pleased with their contributions, also from the business community. But it's clear it's a lot of work to do for me and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade together to find good ways to make the knowledge triangle between innovation, research and higher education known and easily accessible also for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e309	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e312	VG refers to the government's research effort as "a solid bluff," and I can't exactly say that I am very calm after the season here today. In 2009, the Left promoted a proposal for a representative on some basic principles in order to ensure an offensive research policy. This has been done, among other things: to increase the research fund to 150 billion. kr, and to time the research goal of 3 pst. GDP. We didn't get through to it. The Council of State here today says that they will focus on research in the future. Let me therefore give the Council of State some concrete challenges: will the Council of State recommend to the Red-Green parties to support the Left's proposals in the budgetary procedure to increase the research fund, to strengthen climate research, as the climate agreement actually provides, and to grant the necessary funds for scholarship holders and post-doc positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e321	The budget for 2011 has been presented, and, as I said, the total state research budget remains roughly at the level we have had, but that is very high compared to the past. That's calling a decrease of 0.13 pst. in the case of a bluff, the bill is due to certain newspapers. But what we're doing, and also proposing for Stortinget, in the 2011 budget, is increasing the research fund by 3 billion. kr. It is an important part of the funding of research that we are just increasing the fund. It is through the return on funds that we, among other things, use. have been able to earmark funds for equipment, which is a very long-term activity to which government money was also needed from the research community. We still have the 3 pst. goal; it is reflected in the research report, which the Stortinge treated last year. We haven't fixed the year for when we're going to reach the 3rd pst goal, but I remind both the Stortinget and the representative that it's 1 pst. of the 3 pst. which is State responsibility, the rest is the responsibility of business. So there's a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e330	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e333	The question goes to the Minister of Culture. Every day tens of thousands of children and young people are engaged in children’s and youth organisations throughout the country. Many of the conditions for non-governmental organisations in Norway have changed in recent years. Unfortunately, it's not for the better. The Government has made several commitments on better organisational framework conditions through coordination and simplification. In the real world, it's the opposite that happens. It is clearly documented in a recent report published by the National Council for Children’s and Youth Organisations of Norway. Organisations experience a lack of coordination, increasing red tape and stronger voluntary control. Weak organisations and communities are the hardest hit because they are unable to follow up on the increasing amount of knowledge and reporting requirements. Children’s and youth organisations experience that their specific nature is not being taken into account in the formulation of voluntary policies. The report shows, among other things: to Andrea from the Nesodden, who started Nature and Youth on the Nesodden, who says: ‘If we had to fill out a large form and record every time new members of the board were elected, it would be a bit like this... negative attitude.’ The first question for the Minister of Culture will be: Does the Minister of Culture agree that children's and youth organisations and voluntary organisations have their own value and are not instruments of government policy? The second question is: do the Council of State agree with the experience of the children's and youth organisations of the government's own voluntary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e349	The answer to the question is yes, children’s and youth organisations have a self-value. So to question two, is the system too complicated today? To that I will answer yes and no. I think we should look at improvements in cooperation with the children's and youth organisations. At the same time, it is not the case that in order to carry out child labour and youth work, forms are required, but some forms are required to be filled in to obtain access to public funds. And that's where there has to be a good balance, that there has to be little red tape, and that at the same time we have to have some control that this money is being used properly. We have a long history showing that resources for children's and youth organisations need to be accompanied by a certain control system. Yes, it is possible that it leads to a certain bureaucracy, but it is also true that child and youth work is training in social responsibility, and learning to fill out some forms is part of that mission. We have now given children’s and youth organisations and other non-governmental organisations access to VAT compensation. It's a huge reform: 600 million. kr for next year goes to non-governmental organisations. But in order to access these funds, one has to submit the annual results to the county or central level. It is possible that it is bureaucratic and difficult, but I believe that this is a very necessary prerequisite for accessing these public funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e360	Both the Council of State and the undersigned were leaders of the Youth Party in the 1990s, and we agree that there is a need for control also of funding for children’s and youth organisations. However, it is the government’s own statements that have created expectations of simplifying – bureaucratisation – the support of the children’s and young people’s organisations. And it is precisely government's own policy, government's own instruments – from voluntary register to grassroots share to other instruments – that are criticised in the report, precisely because they do not fit into the reality of children's and youth organisations. The report says, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘LNU is deeply disappointed that the promises of coordination and red-green government declarations and voluntary notification have been broken.’ The question is: will the Council of State engage in dialogue with the children's and youth organisations so that the intentions of the policy and the report can be taken seriously and that the recommendations can be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e370	I can promise that I can engage in dialogue with these organizations, but I cannot promise that they will be satisfied. Because we need a certain control system. They need to join the Voluntary Register in order to get a grassroots share. It's a very small bureaucratic system, and it gives many children's and youth organisations good access to toys. They must also be a member of the Voluntary Register and submit the annual results to the county and central level in order to obtain access to VAT compensation funds. But what we need to be fully aware of is that the model that the other parties in the Stortinget wanted, namely a full VAT refund scheme, would lead to a real bureaucracy in the children's and youth organisations, because then VAT accounts had to be completed in the same way as business. It is clear that that system would be even more bureaucratic for all children’s and youth organisations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e375	There will be four follow-up questions – first Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e378	The Voluntary Register has not led to the simplification that we all wanted. On the contrary, we have got a more bureaucratic system that braves organisations for time, money and resources. We're talking about fires that put a lot of energy in our volunteer sector. The Council of State, for example, points out that: in the case of the voluntary tax, that the option would have been more demanding. We know that the VAT compensation system is currently functioning in such a way that, after a resource-intensive paperwork, the organisations will not be fully reimbursed for VAT expenditure. In reality, the scheme is now a support scheme that provides the government with guidance on who they think should receive mild gifts from the Council of State. As the system now appears, I believe it is both unfair and unpredictable to the organisations. The Grassroots Scheme is also produced by the Government as a scheme in which voluntary teams and associations are provided with additional funds. That's wrong. In fact, it rokes at the whole key for the tipping agent that Stortinget has adopted. It's just an earmark of the tipping surplus. I therefore ask the Council of State: can we call this improvements and simplifications?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e385	I would say absolutely yes to that. And the situation is that the opposition in this room did not want a grassroots fraction, so there would be less money for non-governmental organisations at local level. They wanted all the funds to go over the central link. So more local priority is the result of our policy. So here it's said that the government controls which organizations are to be supported. It is not that we sit in the ministry and decide which children's and youth organisations, which non-governmental organisations are to receive VAT compensation. It is the case that these funds are paid out on the basis of information provided to the Lottery and the Foundation. So the way that we're doing control, as the representative here claims, doesn't lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e393	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e396	The Family and Culture Committee has been traveling in Hordaland, and there we have met many nice people. They informed us, among others. They have to wait five years for drugs, with the consequences it has for interest-rate pressures and these things. Among other things, we visited Sotra Sports Club. We got a good account of all the good work they're doing for their 3,500 young members. But the absolute biggest challenge they had was not good, it wasn't waffle cutting, it wasn't lot sales, it wasn't all the volunteer work they put down. That was the VAT code. They repeated it several times. They had to use accountants, accountants, to understand this complicated system. And the costs involved: they actually had to pay more than what they got refunded. What will the Council of State do to ensure that volunteers do not spend more money on administering this scheme than they get back?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e401	Now we're going to spend 600 million. kr to voluntary teams and organisations. That's far more than what was the case when we took over. This goes to voluntary local activity. Then I hear that someone pays more in charge than they get back. I'd like to see those examples. For the vast majority of local teams and organisations, this year and next year, much more will be left from the state than they have ever received. 600 million. So it's going to be possible for even more local voluntary activity. Then I hear the representative says that some sports teams are waiting for toys, tippers. It's a little strange to be criticized by the Progress Party for this. For the strange scheme we have that gambling is used for sports facilities, a system that the Progress Party is opposed to. You want to end the monopoly of games. So the situation of voluntary teams and organisations will be much worse with the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e410	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e413	After all, the VAT compensation scheme is this government's great promise of volunteering. But it is that about 60,000 organisations are too small to make use of the scheme. Then it won't be right when the Council of State stands here and says that most teams and organisations get a promise. Because there are 60,000 children’s and youth organisations that do not get a promise. And many of those in the board are children and young people who don't know very much about how the VAT compensation system works. This is the most vulnerable part of volunteering, and it's therefore interesting to hear what the government wants to do to give these too a boost. On 14 April, the Council of State stated in the United Kingdom that the VAT compensation scheme ‘is a very unbureaucratic system which will make large transfers to the large voluntary work carried out in Norway’. Is it the case that the Council of State still stands on it and completely ignores the 60 000 that cannot avail themselves of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e418	That is not right – and I have replied to that from the Right in the past. Many of these 60,000 organisations are connected to a central level so that they can participate in this scheme. There are not 60,000 voluntary children’s and youth organisations in Norway without a central link. So that's not right. So I'd say yes, that leads to a certain piece of paper. But it's no more than that you have to deliver the annual figures, that is, the total number, to the county or central level. You do not need to have audited accounts for the local laws. It is not a bureaucratic system, but it is a completely necessary condition for access to public funds. It would be interesting to see the result if we had chosen the Right Model, which wanted a VAT refund scheme similar to what you have in business. It was then necessary to have a VAT account. This would lead to a much more complicated system for voluntary organisations. Then those who are a member of the Young Right had to fill in their VAT returns.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e425	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e428	It is obvious that now the Council of State should start talking more to the organisations than to its own bureaucracy. Because there are two things this government has done. They have made a shift to make the accounting industry a growing industry in the voluntary sector. The second is that voluntary organisations are no longer a school of democracy, but a school of bureaucracy. This is what all the organizations out there are saying. In fact, one must have been the AUF leader from the beginning of the 1990s to make the claim about the creative use of money relative to the grass root. We were against the grass root fraction, but we were because it would strengthen the big organizations. It doesn't give you any more money if you're for the grass root, it's just about how to distribute the money. And here the money is distributed only to the largest organizations, while you can see that the entire membership scandal was largely just linked to the largest organizations. So now you take money from the little ones to the big ones. Why does the government do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e433	That's because we want to give each player within Norwegian Typing some influence over where the money goes. I have heard the representative on several occasions attack this system and say that it is sport that runs away with too many of these funds. But I believe it is right that each player can give part of his money to his sport. I believe that it gives each player more power over how the funds are used, and then, of course, most of the profits go into a central pot that is used for culture, non-profits and sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e438	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e441	Since Aasland State Council didn't answer my first question, she's going to have another chance. It is true that we have several research institutes in Norway that carry out both research and management tasks. These are, to some extent, fundamental challenges, but sometimes also some major practical challenges. The forensic institute is an example of that. They are a research, education and competence institute with a high academic quality, at least they were known for it in the past. But now the Institute, and especially the Department of Biological Traces, is an institute like rice of internal conflicts, and there are signs of a miserable working environment. The government's DNA reform, which according to the Ministry of Justice, among others, should contribute to increasing the percentage of intrusion clearance, has led to a massive increase in the work of the Institute, and thus, of course, the management tasks of the RMI have also increased, inter alia. through DNA analyses for the police. They now have 2,200 untreated cases, and they have an average duration of 140 days for most cases. Now I am not a justice politician, nor is it the Council of State, but I assume that a relatively large number of burglaries can be made in 140 days. Does the Council of State think this is acceptable? And if no, what will the Council of State do to reduce the treatment time at the Forensic Institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e451	I did not realize that this was what the representative asked me about in the previous round, and that I had not responded to. I see this as a completely different question. I will then answer that, as far as the situation at the Institute of Forensics is concerned, the University has addressed the matter through good information and dialogue with me. Quite rightly, there have been demanding work environment challenges and a difficult situation that has certainly contributed to a slower procedure than you would otherwise have had. But the University itself has grasped this. They have set up a board, which the Forensic Institute had not previously established, and they have been provided with a basis for the Forensic Institute to perform its important tasks both in the field of forensic medicine and in the administrative function of the Ministry of Justice and Police. So I'm convinced that the University and the Forensic Institute will manage to get a faster procedure and get a good knowledge of forensics, and that this will allow us to have a situation where there will not be a bottleneck in resolving crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e458	I have to praise the Council of State to at least answer the question this time. If I was not quite impressed with the answer, there was at least the wrong answer to the correct question. What I feel is that the Council of State does not address, is whether one should not now consider whether to say that Norwegian research institutes, and then, in particular, the Institute of Forensic Medicine, are going to be involved in research, development of competences and education, and that the management tasks are either being transferred to private entities, or that these research tasks are being separated into independent entities. This does not just apply to this institute, but we now have a concrete situation that makes this matter relevant. Will the Council of State take the initiative to see whether a stronger distinction between research and management is necessary in this field, but also in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e465	I understand the representative's problem. It is not that in most of our research institutes it is both management tasks and research tasks. It belongs to the fewer. I see the challenges of being responsible for both, but I am not going – at least not at first – to take any initiative to make a change in circumstances, especially in the case of the Forensic Institute. I know there's discussion about any other environment that could take any of these management tasks, but so far I have full confidence that the University of Oslo and the Institute of Forensics can handle their important research tasks, which are closely linked to the administrative tasks they also have for the Ministry of Justice and Police. So I'm not going to do anything there with the first, but of course I'm going to follow the situation very closely both at that institute and at other institutions that have different roles to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e470	There will be two follow-up questions – first the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e473	I record that the Minister of Justice has also been very involved in this matter, and that is of course natural, because now it is about to go on legal certainty. In some cases seven to eight months have been expected for a DNA analysis, in fact in serious rape cases, and that is very serious. When we know that there are private and other players with free capacity who can carry out this type of analysis over four to five weeks, it may not be time for the Council of State to discuss with the Minister of Justice under the Interim Council who will now consider getting the order of the RMI, to allow others to carry out the analysis tasks, or the administrative tasks, which the RMI has been given, so that, in the interests of legal certainty, matters can be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e478	I can assure the representative that the Minister of Justice and I are in constant contact with this matter as well. So there is no need for contact. But none of us are interested in changing the systems as they work today at short notice. So it's going to be better. Action has been taken. A different type of management of this has been reduced than in the past, and the work environment is becoming much more calm, which also gives peace to do the important tasks. So, as I said to the previous questioner, I choose to follow this – of course I follow it – and I also have good contact with the University of Oslo as responsible for this institute. I follow along and have great confidence that they will be able to come up to date both with the proceedings and with important research for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e483	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e486	It wasn't surprising, because the government has been completely uninterested in doing something about this for over five years. Thus, the Council of State does not choose to use a partially publicly funded laboratory such as GENA in Stavanger, which has available capacity – 90 pst. – which delivers faster, more reasonable and better quality than what the RMI actually does. Then you have employees who color their hair and call themselves witches to show their grouping where they belong. I think it's a witchcraft in itself that the government has not yet managed to get its finger out and actually starts using people who can do this. But this is about more than numbers and statistics. It's about people, it's about finding out who did what, so that, for the sake of vermin victims of crime, you actually have to get caught and convicted a perpetrator, and you have to have DNA analyzed. Is the Council of State, on behalf of the Government, proud of all the victims of the rape who have experienced that the perpetrator is not taken because the government has ensured that the trial period has been as it is for more than five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e493	The President must recall that there are more parliamentary expressions than ‘getting his finger out’ – to consider later interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e496	Get a little bit ahead of you, I can fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e501	President, thank you for that appeal, also because there are very serious issues and accusations the representative comes along, which I do not seem to belong in a serious situation with challenges both in terms of the resolution of crimes and important research in this area. No one shall take away from the environment of the Forensic Institute the knowledge they have just through DNA analyses. They provide a good basis for assisting police and investigators in resolving crimes. The fact that there's been a difficult situation there, now used as an argument that you can't actually solve rape crimes, I have to say, is quite stupid. At least I am going to follow the situation, of course, as I have told the previous questioners, but I have great confidence that the environment, which I will in no way characterise as the representative does, is an environment that is fully capable of addressing the situation and improving it. I am not satisfied that the processing time is so long in such cases, it is quite right, but I trust that there will be great improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e509	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e512	I have a question to the Council of State Aasrud in her capacity as the Council of State for Public Efficiency. The Council of State's closest political staff, Secretary of State Ravlum, made a very interesting contribution last week during the annual conference on public acquisitions. Among other things, she said: public purchasers can release 20 billion. kr of total purchase volume of 307 billion. kr, except for the oil sector – it is slightly more than total government labour costs and three times more than the cost of the health sector. After five years of red-green self-esteem about how much money you spend, it's of course a point of light that you're about to see that that's actually what you get out of the appropriations, which is crucial for our users and our services. Then you get from temper anger over the lost five years of this government and maybe look a little bit ahead, which I also want to invite the Council of State to. My question is not whether the Council of State agrees with its Secretary of State, I take it for granted. But I want the Council of State to think – if she wants to share them with Stortinget – about how the Council of State and her department can ensure that the 20 billion. kr is actually collected and thus leads to more services, better services and perhaps also at the long end to lower tax pressures, lower margins and lower charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e521	There is no doubt that there is a lot of money, I also think, to get to manage to streamline, among other things. the purchases we make in the public sector. For example: The representative Tetzschner says he's buying the public for 307 billion. kr per year. That's a lot of money. Then you're probably going to be somewhat skeptical about whether it's possible to take out as much power display gains as someone thinks, but that it's possible to pick something up, I'm sure. One of the most important things we're now working on is using more e-commerce to get a better solution. The establishment of an e-commerce platform, where we can make more purchases electronically, will help to make purchases easier, it will be easier to relate to the underlying tender law, which too many people experience as complicated, and there will also be money to collect from it. The second is that we are now introducing a system of electronic invoices, which will also help to make purchases more efficient, and also save money through it. KOFA is an important player in ensuring that the public procurement that is made is done correctly. Many people are not doing their purchases correctly, and I have registered that KOFA has recently imposed significant fines on public bodies that have not made public procurement. It also shows that we need to invest more in getting more knowledge into the sector, both so that more purchases are carried out correctly, and so that you buy the right quality at the right price. Divi, our trades union directorate, is working with a lot different in terms of procurement and procurement conferences, to enhance the individual's competence, and I think that's necessary. I think that the money that can be saved to make purchases more efficient and more cost-effective is the money we're going to need to build the welfare state further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e532	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She said that someone thinks that you can save significant amounts. It was probably a little bit looser than what's on the ministry's website with reference to political leadership, which has used the figure size 20 billion. NOK just a week ago. So I would like to hear the Council of State elaborate if she is in the hands of the Secretary of State. Last week, VG had an overview that the municipalities have built up bureaucracy as much as they have to increase offers when they have had a liberal framework. My question then is whether she will ensure that municipalities are given strong advice for just using purchases – using the market, competing for supplies to the public – as a way to increase efficiency, in which the political staff of the Council of State has already been digitised to 20 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e539	Yeah, we're in charge of the numbers that are there, but I don't think it's easy to pick up the efficiency gain. The municipal sector is a key and the local authority sector is a major buyer, so it is clearly essential that the municipal sector makes use of the opportunities offered by public procurement – and makes it both effective and appropriate. And we work with the local government sector on these issues; we have a good cooperation with KS. I can also mention in that context that I think it is important to also get some innovation strengths related to purchases, because we need to develop the products that the public buys. And there is a work on supplier development in this area that, together with the NHO, also involves the municipal sector. So yes: the local government sector is involved and actively participating in the actions that Digi is implementing both to increase competence and to get more accurate purchases at fairer prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e544	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e547	As a representative from More and Romesdal, I experience strong underfinancing of vocational schools and highways. This happens at the same time as hospitals have to cut the treatment offer and Kristiansund hospitals have the closure ghost hanging over them. While a study from the Freshhouse shows that it's 15 billion. save on improving the efficiency of the public sector sectors surveyed, while allowing the government to continue to exacerbate public bureaucracy, without having any answers other than increased taxes. Among the most effective schools and hospitals in the study are the Ålesund High School and Health Sunnmore and Health Nordmøre and Romsdal. Does the Council of State really understand that these billions that could have been spent on schools, hospitals and roads are being wasted in bureaucracy, and will the Council of State take the necessary steps to release the money and use it for welfare tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e556	The President is probably also a little bit in doubt as to whether this question was a follow-up to the main question, but please, Councillor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e559	Yes, there has been growth among government employees in recent years, but a large part of the growth has come in sectors in which we wanted to grow. There has been growth in the number of employees in the university and higher education sectors; there is a growth that we have wanted. There has been growth in the police sector; there is also a growth we have wanted. And there's been growth in e.g. the protection of children; the strengthening of child protection has also been a political objective. Then it's important that we take seriously the results we've now received from the StatRes study. This is why work is in progress, among other things. In the Department of Knowledge, to see if we're doing things the right way. Police performance reform is another work under way, and not least the Health Interaction Reform is something to help us use public resources better. There's work that the government has a high focus on, and we're going to continue with it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e566	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e569	I fully agree with the Council of State that modernising and streamlining the public sector will always be a major challenge. Yes, it's almost an impossible task, because all governments over the last 15 to 20 years have talked about improving efficiency and modernising. And I record that the Council of State also indicates that this government has given rise to growth in all areas. That's right: the appropriations are increasing, but that doesn't give you any better results. Then my question is to the Council of State: do you see a link between the rapidly growing bureaucracy and the inefficient structure we have in general government, given that money is being collected, but you don't get anything new? Isn't that evidence that we have a system and a structure that makes it almost impossible to get more out of the resources we grant into the system? We have a structure with municipalities, county councils, county councillors, intercommunal cooperation, we have the directorate, etc. Isn't it time to look at the entire governance structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e575	It has recently been a review of the entire administrative structure in this room, and it ended up having the structure you currently have. But that doesn't mean you can't work to get efficiency measures. Since 1990, more than 800 significant efficiency measures, renewal measures, have been registered in the State sector. The number of establishments has decreased significantly. But I agree with the Sandberg representative that this is a work we have to continue, we have to work on finding ways to work even more efficiently. I think using ICT is a very important tool. This enables us to streamline more work processes and free up labour for those sectors that will need more staffing in the future. Health and police and education are sectors that in the future, both demographically and increasingly need resources, will need more crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e580	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e592	There are a few changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 11, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been transferred to the Minister for Culture who is directing him. Question 14, from Mr Laila Marie Reiertsen's representative to the Minister of Labour, will be answered by the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church on behalf of the Minister of Labour, who has a disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e607	The following questions were raised by Janne Fardal Kristoffersen and asked by the undersigned: ‘Is the Council of State aware that students who submit their examination task electronically and receive the acknowledgement that everything is ok still experience an undeserved and erroneous nature due to technical failure, because the complete response to the task does not appear? What will the Council of State do to ensure that school students are protected from such events in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e614	Following the introduction of the electronic testing system PGS, an increasing proportion of the examination responses have been delivered electronically. In the spring of 2010 it was about 40 p.m., in excess of 105 000 replies, delivered in this way. In the development of the electronic examination test run, safety-related issues have been steered. I am aware that the proportion of responses where either the whole or part of the response has gone missing is significantly reduced compared to the previous one, as paper replies could actually be lost in the post. Although very rarely problems arise in the delivery of examination answers, it is serious for the individual affected. Education directorates, county officials and school owners have routines to deal with such situations, which they are constantly improving. When submitting his examination report electronically, the applicant must confirm that he has remembered to keep his last amendments to the document. The examination candidate is also made aware that he has the opportunity to check that the correct document has been uploaded to the system after he has delivered it. In addition, the school examiner has the opportunity to check that the answers are complete. Once an examination response has been delivered, it is converted to a universal readable format, pdf, before it is sent to sensor. The response originally submitted is always stored in the system. I am informed that there have been some cases in which students have forgotten to store examination answers before delivery. In addition, the Directorate-General for Education explains that there have been some problems with the conversion to pdf in the subject where the answer may contain elements other than text. These subjects have therefore been excluded from the electronic system for the conversion of the examination. The problem was discovered because some responses lost some of their content during the conversion. These cases were so obvious that the sensors understood that there was a conversion error. The sensors were then given access to the original document the candidate had delivered. I am aware that the Education Directorate has chosen a new supplier and a new conversion system from the spring 2011 exam to avoid these problems in the future. I want to say that we still have to work to get as secure systems for this as possible. It is serious for a candidate if the response he has provided is not fully handed over to the sensor, or if there are other things happening along the way. The way to handle this locally is in case the exam can be cancelled, i.e. standing position character.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e634	I thank you for your answer. There is a cross-political desire to increase the level of electronic submission, and as the Council of State draws up, there have been significant problems related to paper submissions as well, so this is a step in the right direction. But the leading thing for the Right is that the students never have to be the losing party when the system doesn't work properly. Let me just draw attention to a tenth grade at Kleppestø high school that had done its job properly. The school put a copy of the answer that was complete, but the sensor only got the introduction. When the student complained about the character and the principal wanted to send the full answer, they were told that it was impossible. Does the Council of State consider that there is a correct interpretation of the existing legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e643	I do not know this example in concrete terms, but the handling of what you do when such situations occur is done locally on a case-by-case basis, and of course you have to consider this from the point of view of the candidate. I don't know what's behind exactly how this happened, but what's possible locally is that you send the original answer if it's at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e648	I think it must be the governing factor for the future, too, that if the school has a copy of the original answer, it must be possible to use it if the sensor has not got the whole problem. There was clearly a discussion of legislation here, and it was found locally that the legislation was not suitable for the use of the safety backup that the school is holding, even though the principal was reluctant to follow it up. The student then ended up with a character that was significantly lower — naturally — than what he had in his stand, and was in danger of not getting into his first choice of high school. One single step of error, such as this, can have dramatic consequences for each individual student, and can also mean getting the whole course of education out of control. It has to be arranged in such a way that the legislation assumes that the student should not be the losing party in the event of technical problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e655	Let me take a closer look at this specific matter, it is a little difficult to deal with it in an unprepared manner here. When you handle these kinds of things locally, there is the possibility of looking at what was the original answer, if there have been any errors in the technical transfer to a sensor. I do not know what is the explanation that such a procedure has not been accepted in this case, and I would like to take a closer look at this one specific example to see if it reveals any weaknesses in the legislation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e664	‘According to a multi-media lookout, the 2011 conversion of child care funding will hit a number of municipalities very hard. Sarpsborg municipality will, according to the Evening Post, tape 11 million. kr per year due to the key of distribution which depends on the proportion of higher education in the municipality. This will hit the whole of Eastfold hard. I can't imagine this being thought through by the government, says the Ap-rapporteur in Sarpsborg. Does the Council of State consider these new criteria to be objective and appropriate for the challenges facing Kommune-Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e671	From 2011 onwards, the ear-marked access to kindergarten is integrated into the community framework and becomes part of the income system. This has always been our plan when full babysitting was achieved. It is not such that there is a link between the criteria in the income system and the right to a nursery place. The right to children's playgrounds applies to all children, regardless of e.g.: the level of parental endurance. The cost key in the income system is composed of the criterion that helps explain why actual costs vary between municipalities. The aim is to describe the situation in the municipalities as much as possible as he actually is, not how we would like him to be. The Kindergarten sub-cost key is designed in accordance with the same principle as the sub-cost keys for the other sectors of the income system. The most important criterion for allocating funds to kindergarten is, of course, the number of children in the municipality. But full child care coverage is not the same in all municipalities. Analyst shows that the number of children without cash support and the level of education in the population affects demand. Statistically, there is a link between the population’s challenge level and the demand for childcare space. In municipalities with a higher level of education, the demand for kindergarten is higher, and thus the local authorities' spending on kindergarten is higher. If we didn't include the question criterion in the cost key, we wouldn't be able to capture the variation in demand between municipalities in the same way. High demand municipalities would get too little money to meet the needs of kindergarten, while low demand municipalities would get too much. The coverage varies e.g. from 83.4 pst. in Sarpsborg to 89.1 pst. in Berum. The number shown, because between Sarpsborg and Sarpsborg, does not refer to the distribution effect of the inclusion, but how much more the municipality would get if the funds were distributed at an equal amount per. built-in. To distribute the bill by an equal amount per. built-in has never been an option. Distributing funds to kindergarten would mean that municipalities where a relatively high percentage of the population is in kindergarten would receive the same amount of funding as municipalities with a relatively low percentage of the population in kindergartens. The municipality with most inhabitants aged three to five has about four times as many as the municipality with the lowest number. If these municipalities get the same amount in their favour, they will not have the same commitment to providing a good childcare facility. It is therefore important to have a criterion that captures in the best possible way that the needs and costs vary considerably between Norwegian municipalities. The partial cost key for kindergartens that has been taken into account in the income system since 2011 is the model that best describes the kindergarten sector today. There have been major changes in the sector in recent years, and we will therefore follow the situation closely and evaluate the partial cost key for kindergarten again as early as next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e686	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, although I do not believe very many local politicians over the whole country were reassured by it. The Council of State now spent more than three minutes explaining the challenge, and the Secretary of State tried to do the same in News Day 18 last Tuesday. But with respect for what was said, I don't think anyone there was much wiser about the challenges that are now facing a number of municipalities. These criteria, which are now being taken into account, are, in fact, a double penalty for municipalities with low tax revenues initially. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: is it such that a conversion that punishes 393 municipalities, according to the Municipal Report, can be designed to meet the challenges of municipalities with an ever-increasing demand for good kindergarten places?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e693	The numbers shown in the media are derived from KS's forecast model, where one looks at the size of moves and additions that follow each criterion compared to whether the bill was evenly distributed per capita. It's a computational illustration of how the cost equalization works, by first calculating a population surplus, evenly distributed, and then distributing resources through the cost equalization. I think there is a large number of people in this room that we should have a cost equalization that reflects the real cost level in each municipality. It would be very strange if municipalities that have little demand for nursery facilities would have as much transfer to kindergarten as those who have high demand, and that is just the difference that this criterion is supposed to reflect. It has nothing to do with the right to babysitting for the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e700	I thank you again for the answer. Yesterday, the NRK published figures where half of the rapporteurs said that the economy in their own municipality looks somewhat worse or significantly worse in 2011 than this year. This is actually the reality they live in out there, and not the reality of the Council of State, where there has never been any more money than it is at any time. Government statements that many municipalities have survived over the last few years, I don't think I agree with the reality out there either. Yes, we agree that we should have criteria for how to distribute the costs. I don't think anyone disagrees. The question is how and what criteria are used, and not least how these criteria are applied to each municipality. So I'm going to ask you, even though you're hiding behind the fact that there are 25 criteria underlying the income system, it's this one criterion that turns out very unfortunate. Will the Council of State take a special initiative to look at that criterion?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e709	First of all, I want to distance myself from saying that the municipalities have lived beyond their ability. It hasn't come over my lips. On the contrary, unlike some other parties, I have great respect for local self-government. I've also said that they won't be right-wing from my mouth when it comes to their dispositions, because they're going to be made locally and not centrally. That there's never been any more money, I'm going to stand up for it, because that's right. Nor has it been a higher activity. There have been 40,000 more annual works in the last five years. I'm not going to reflect on the fact that there was about a quarter of this activity growth in another period – we're going to lie down. We're not hiding behind criteria. We have created a set of criteria developed by the Centre for Economic Research, which should be the most objective. It is not politically anchored, but it shows the link between the cost of caring for the elderly, kindergartens and schooling in individual municipalities, and the need for expenditure varies from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e718	‘Design Region Bergen, DRB, is a business organisation with 500 members from the design field in the West. Bergen has Norway's second largest design environment, but has in vain tried to obtain state funding from the Norwegian Design Council. The Design Council has so far referred to Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway in Hordaland has contributed with start-up funds, but has now informed that there will be no more funding for the DRB. In what way can the Council of State contribute to the benefit of rock designers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e725	The government sees it as an important task to facilitate an innovative and competitive business. The strategic use of design increases the profitability and competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises and businesses. Therefore, the government is betting on design as a innovation driver for Norwegian business. The Government’s channels for implementing design policy are Norwegian Design Council and Innovation Norway. The Norwegian Design Council is actively working to be a national competence centre for Norwegian companies to use design as an innovation tool for increasing competitiveness. One of the most important tasks is to provide technical assistance to companies across the country. In addition, Norwegian Design Council cooperates with Innovation Norway’s design programme, which ensures that the regional perspective of design policy is respected. The great strength of cooperation between the Norwegian Design Council and Innovation Norway is a coordination of resources that benefits all companies and design agencies across the country. Another important point is that Innovation Norway, in addition to providing financial support, design advice and dissemination, also offers other types of services. One and the same enterprise can receive support from Innovation Norway at many levels and in different phases. The government has chosen to further strengthen its design effort through a design-driven innovation programme. There is a national programme under the auspices of the Norwegian Design Council to stimulate the use of design methodology with a focus on user focus in the innovation work of companies from the idea phase to the market introduction. The main elements of the programme are enterprise projects where enterprises are assisted by national and international expertise to strengthen the development of enterprises. In addition to national programmes and networks such as the Design Base and the preservation of regional conditions through cooperation between Norwegian Design Council and Innovation Norway’s regional offices, it has been made clear both in the mandate of the Norwegian Design Council and in the governance dialogue with the Ministry that the Norwegian Design Council operates nationally and covers all regions of the country. Design Region Bergen has received NOK 200 000 from Innovation Norway in establishment support as well as support for networks and exchanges of expertise. Establishment aid is a one-off grant and Innovation Norway is not able to provide operating aid. The government is pleased with the implementation of national design policies, including in the various regions. It is quite right, as the representative says, that Bergen has a strong design environment, and I am absolutely sure that the companies and businesses in Bergen will claim themselves well in the competition for state incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e740	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree, of course, that it is important that the Norwegian Design Council has a focus on the whole country, although the Design Council's activities are well located in Oslo. It is precisely the presence in the rest of the country that more people in the industry are calling for. Now I've taken up the situation for the mountain region, and as far as I know, it's the only region outside Oslo where there's a kind of network organisation – an industry development organisation – for this important industry. But then you just miss the presence of the Design Council in Bergen. I have understood that the Design Council was the co-organizer of a single meeting in 2009, and in a week's time, a new meeting is planned, i.e. in 2010. There may not be any active presence in the places where the industry meets. Then the question is, can the Minister of Industry do anything to strengthen the presence of the Design Council elsewhere in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e747	We have now carried out a major evaluation of Innovation Norway. It is clear that in the wake of that evaluation, we will also look at the functioning of regional offices, regional initiatives and the presence throughout the country. The task of the Norwegian Design Council is to serve all of Norway and shall not be a purely capital body. According to my papers, Hordaland County is County No. 2 with regard to where the Norwegian Design Council has the most press coverage. To what extent it somehow reflects a presence, or whether the mountain newspapers are most concerned with design, I don't know, but it can at least be an indication that you actually mark well there, and that there are important design environments the Norwegian Design Council is playing along in Bergen. I think you might not want to look blindly at the number of meetings, but rather look at how Norwegian Design Council plays with single companies and single companies to stimulate design to be used as the tool it can be to strengthen our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e756	The Minister of Industry, from his time as Minister of Culture, is well aware of the cultural industries in Norway. In particular, there are three types of such industries: the music industry, the film industry and the design industry. For the film industry and the music industry, regional structures — even investment funds and other things — are in place that contribute to industry development around Norway, perhaps especially around the big cities outside Oslo. This is completely lacking in the design field. There was something of the background that even as a cultural agency in Bergen, I took the initiative to strengthen the focus on design by supporting the creation of Design Region Bergen, establishing a design incubator, etc. Does the Minister of Industry see the need to learn from the music industry and the film industry in helping to establish regional power centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e763	I believe that, in particular, the county councils, which have a task in business development, but also large municipalities, in the same way that they have engaged in, for example. film production in collaboration with good municipal cinemas, including in the design industry, can certainly do a lot. I think we should be aware that there is both an industry in itself, where design is the main component, whether it is fashion design or other type of design, and also that design gradually returns to almost all other types of business as an input into strengthening the market potential of products or services. So building design skills, where entrepreneurs may have hatched a good product, but need this extra to get a market potential, and where design can play an enormously important role – we know that – I think it can also be good regional business policy. That Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Design Council can play with local authorities in order to achieve that kind of promise, I am absolutely a supporter of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e774	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Nordics spend three times as much money on foreign vacations compared to non-residents in Norway. What will the Council of State do to make tourists both longer in Norway and spend more money, just to strengthen this important industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e783	I thank you for the question. Bredvold has shown great commitment to travel life, probably also with the background that his own state has a great potential for this. I fully agree that we can do even more not just to get more tourists to Norway, but also to make them stay longer and not least spend more money in Norway. Therefore, the tourism industry may also be the business sector that has had the largest increase in current government spending. We have increased efforts towards the tourism industry from 100 million. NOK when we took over in 2005, to SEK 260 million. kr in 2010. That's an increase of over 150 pst. We now spend a quarter of a billion dollars a year on the tourism industry. It is money that is largely managed by Innovation Norway, and is used among others. to promote Norway as a travel destination both in the rest of the world and at home, for product development, skills enhancement and business networks in the tourism industry. In addition, public funds from non-Ministry of Industry and Trade are used significantly. A 2009 survey of public funds for the tourism industry carried out by Oxford Research showed that more than 1 billion were used. kr in 2007. It's barely lower today. At the end of 2007, the government launched the “Valueful Experiences” strategy with the following three main objectives: increasing value creation and productivity in the tourism industry viable districts through several full-year jobs in the tourism industry Norway – a sustainable travel destination Now almost three years have passed since the strategy was launched, and we cannot say that the targets are yet to be achieved. However, developments are moving in the right direction both in terms of attention to sustainable travel and all-year jobs. The industry itself must innovate and produce good overall products that give visitors valuable experiences. However, we can work on improving our actions from the public point of view. We have carried out a major evaluation of Innovation Norway, but we want a specific review of the travel life initiative to be sure that we spend the money correctly and get as much back for them as possible. It is also an important objective for tourists to stay longer in Norway and to spend more money in Norway. This is best achieved by facilitating that Norwegian travel products are attractive and that people want to use them – and they like to use them by paying a lot and staying here for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e810	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. It is good that the government wants to spend more money on this, but the Progress Party wants to spend even more money on this – just so they say. You can ask the question if the tourists who come to Norway are more greedy than the Norwegians. I don't think so. Then the next question is, Is our offer good enough, and is that enough? That's what I want to ask the Council of State questions about: Do we have a good enough offer, and is it the offer spread across the country, so that tourists have enough to choose from?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e819	I don't think we can conclude that the products are good enough yet. I think we need to develop more seamless products, better product packages and easier access to our products. We have to make sure that the tourists come here, not become a one-off affair for them, but that they are so happy and happy to have been in Norway that they not only come back themselves, but tell their family and their colleagues and neighbors that Norway was a wonderful destination for travel. We need to strengthen our competence in the industry. We need to strengthen the annual activities. We need to strengthen the experiences of travel life. There are, with some exceptions, very few who travel on vacation to stay at the hotel, although it is absolutely necessary when traveling, but it is the experiences around, what you can spend money on and get back from stimulating experiences, which may be a key point to succeed in a travel strategy. Then we must have a good dialogue with the whole sector. We need to have a common and good marketing out there, and we need to ensure better accessibility at all levels of the travel industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e828	I very much agree with what the Council of State says, and I think the Council of State also agrees with a lot of what I say about this, so I think we have a common goal. I think the way to achieve that goal is also relatively equal. They're the ones who say some foreign tourists come here and ask for a five-star offer, but then they get a three-star offer. What will the Council of State do, so that we can also increase our quality? Governments have mentioned something, but I think there's a lot more to address. We have tourists who want different things. We have those who want a five-star offer and want to pay for it, and we have those who want a three-star offer and pay for it, and then we have those who just bring the back bag and take a tour around. We have a job in giving everyone who wants to come to Norway for a vacation, an offer, and that they will get a good offer, and that they get a good experience and tell them there when they come home again, that in Norway it was good to be. What do we do with those who want to get a five-star offer, but don't get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e837	I also think that we have a lot to get there to raise the quality. Now, from the Ministry, we have cooperated with the hotel industry to develop just such a star system where you get objective and clear criteria so that as a tourist you know what you get from some common driving rules for star rating. But we certainly have more to improve in terms of service, in terms of quality, and in terms of putting the customer in the centre. It is also about building skills and increasing the possibility of continuing training for those employed in the tourism industry, the development of full-year jobs to provide a stable workforce, and not least about marketing the amazing experiences we can offer. As half an oyster beer, I've probably spent most of my summer vacations in my life in the representative's county. If I have left enough money, I am a little uncertain. But at least we have great opportunities to leave in our own country and to get foreigners to spend more time in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e850	‘Norwegian winter cold creates major problems for trains every year, and it has become a tradition that the Minister of Transport then calls for crisis meetings to give the impression of action. What has been done to prevent a new train chaos in winter 2010/2011 in addition to reducing the number of trains, and will the Council of State repeat its predecessor’s 2007 promise that the NSB and the Railway Agency ‘will not be able to rest until they have settled’?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e857	Strong cold snow creates problems for train traffic. That's what we've been experiencing in the last winter. Not only Norway, but also other countries dealt with the same problems. I don't think the Ministers for Transport have had the habit of calling in what Hoksrud calls 'crisis meetings' without this being strictly necessary. Based on what we experienced in the last winter, it is natural that both myself and the railway companies have been eager to strengthen the winter readiness so that we can be best placed to meet the coming winter. I have therefore had a good dialogue with both the Railway Agency and the NSB to ensure that they are well-predicted in the winter. On Monday 25 October this year, a press conference was held in Lodalen where the Railway Agency and the NSB presented several concrete measures to ensure better operational conditions for train traffic over the coming winter. In this context, I would like to point out that in 2009 as well as 2010 I have made myself aware of the fact that important sections have been upgraded so that they are now more robust and tolerably tougher weather. This renewal work will continue and is a high priority in the government's 2011 draft budget. Both the Railway Agency and the NSB have seen a number of measures taken to be better equipped over the coming winter. The railway works consume a total of 70 million. new and better equipment. In the new winter preparation there is also increased crewing and up-to-date routines in order to have a more efficient snow cleaning work. New and larger machines must clear the main sections faster and more frequently in case of heavy snowfall. In addition, separate snow cleaning machines shall be installed to clean the large track areas of Oslo S and Alnabru. There are also manual procedures for removing ice clumps falling off the train in the switches and making the switch not fit in the correct position, which easily leads to large delays in train traffic. In the rest of the country, snow removal equipment is also being overrun and renewed. The railway station has two large train locomotives operating in the bridge service in winter. The one is stationed on the Bergensbanen, while the other is on the Hamar and can be sent to track sections with a particularly heavy snowfall. On Bergensbanen and Nordlandsbanen there are also two large rotating snowploughs stationed for use on the mountain crossings. The NSB also implements a series of measures to improve train toll in winter. Important measures are e.g.: establishment of de-icing and thawing facilities, increased workshop capacity and a more robust operating system to make train provision more reliable for train passengers if we have a difficult winter. When there is more specific information about the winter landscape, I can, among other things. refer to the notice in the Railway magazine No. 9-2010. There is no doubt that the Railway Agency and the NSB are working well to prepare themselves for the coming winter. The review on October 25 shows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e878	I record that the Council of State said that they don't tend to call the Railway Agency and the NSB on the carpet unless there's a need for it, and only the years I've been on the Transport Committee, there have been four or five crisis meetings, where the two respective departments are called on the carpet of the Minister of Transport. I think it is good that we now have increased resources for maintenance. But then I register that according to today's Evening Post, it is such that the government "killed the train revolution" in 2012, which is also an important part of the winter maintenance. I record that the Workers' Party's communication policy criticises the Railway Agency and the NSB for not getting what you need. I think that when you've been in government for more than five years, you should soon start taking responsibility for the policies you're running, and the appropriations you give to the Railway Agency and the NSB. I want to challenge the Council of State whether she agrees with the representative of Bjørnflaten. I also want to ask if the Council of State can now guarantee that no more trains will be taken out, as has now been done from Lillestrøm, where three departures have been stopped. Will you stop that? And can you guarantee that all the trains now are going to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e887	Let me first say that when Hoksrud reads the evening post so carefully, he also reads that I take responsibility, the responsibility I have for the railway. It would be unnecessary to ask for his own nitite reading. So for a guarantee. That's a very strong word. The reason why the NSB has taken out three trains is the close frequency of trains that are today. Experience suggests that it is actually on the verge of self-inflicting instability. One has taken away these three trains. That means point play gets bigger for winter. So I can verify that the point game gets bigger. Then I can also confirm that there is no doubt that the winter readiness is far better than he was the winter we have behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e894	I follow along and read very carefully what the Minister for Transport says. But I note that the Workers' Party's communication policy in Stortinget criticises the Railway Agency and the NSB. I challenged the Council of State whether she agreed with that criticism or not. I hope she can answer that. I think it is good that the Railway Agency has now strengthened its preparedness, and hope that it means that there will be fewer problems. But despite the government's promise that only the Oslo Tunnel could be repaired, some of the problems would end, and that the trains would still experience problems, despite the assurances they now receive both from the government, from the NSB and from the Railway Agency that it will not continue like this. Then I asked the Council of State about the Gjøvik Railway, because it was decided to cut the route offer here. I want an assurance and hope that the Council of State can guarantee that the train offer will not now be reduced, either on the Gjøvik track or on other routes, when you now believe that you have taken the three routes you need to ensure operational stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e903	I have made sure myself that the Railway Agency and the NSB are talking closely. The two directors have met every Monday throughout the winter, just to strengthen a readiness that was not good enough. When it comes to ‘Routeplan 2012’, I have asked them to cooperate closely on the gradual introduction that I announced on the day of the budget and that the representative Hoksrud can read more about in the budget. It says in detail what the Railway Agency thinks should be in place before the new ‘Routeplan 2012’. Then to the Gjøvik Railway. The Gjøvik railway itself has asked for and announced some changes to the route, and I believe – with all due respect – that one train is involved. They're going to follow it up. Besides that, I do not know any other route changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e916	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The government’s 2011 draft budget also deems projects on Bergensbanen to be a priority in relation to the previous plan of progress. This applies in particular to the double-track Bergen-Fløen. The Bergensbahnen is one of our most busy regional sections, but the potential for more freight and passenger transport is great. The 4-2020 Mountain Railway has launched a plan to bring down four hours of travel time between Oslo and Bergen by 2020. Will the Council of State support such a objective and actively pursue it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e925	I am familiar with the initiative of the Bergensbanen 4-2020 and am pleased with the interest and commitment to a faster and better train service between Oslo and Bergen. When it comes to the priority of double-track Bergen station-Fløen, I point out that in Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011 has been done to ensure that further work is dependent on signal resources and new signalling systems and that further planning will be seen in the context of the planned Ulriken tunnel extension. When uncertainty about the choice of signalling and securing facilities at Bergen station – Fleeen has been clarified and the railway station’s resource situation has been improved before the signalling competence has been improved, I suggest that the project be continued and that start-up will be assessed in the context of the 2013 budget. When the priority is more general, Bergensbanen is the track that has been given the highest priority in recent years. This work will continue and contribute to the achievement of a good standard, with better operational stability in train traffic. In 2010, exceptional maintenance, track renewal, of about 160 million has been carried out. kr at Bergensbanen. The funds released from the work on Bergen station-Fløen were used to continue the planning of Ulriken tunnel, as well as to strengthen the maintenance on Bergensbanen. This includes: removes multiple sequences in the last two years. A number of smaller investment measures have also been taken for racial protection, securing/restructuring level crossings, etc. new coalverts and gangways and the replacement of bridges. The railway works also carry out an important task of repairing the remote control on Bergensbanen. In addition, there is a major refurbishment of Voss station to improve the accessibility and security of the station. The railway station does not participate in the work of the Bergensbahnen 4-2020, but also has as its goal the long-term improvement of running time on Bergensbanen. I intend to come back with more concrete proposals to shorten travel times further on Bergensbanen in connection with the next national transport plan, for 2014-2023. Then I also hope to be more concrete about future travel time between Oslo and Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e936	I thank you for your answer. In the meantime, I want to focus a little bit on the freight potential. In NTP, the Council of State suggests that up to 14 new crossing tracks, or extensions, should be built on Bergensbanen. It would be about. 1,4 crossing tracks per year or up to three at the end of the next financial year. As far as I know, there's only one crossing track planned. It's on Gjøvikbanen, which is part of Bergensbanen's freight transport – that's right – but here there are also problems related to a security facility. Does the Council of State not see that she is serious in terms of losses in relation to the promised expansion of crossing tracks on Bergensbanen, when she is now postponing the Bergen–Fløen again, and that this does not achieve the objective of getting more goods on track?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e943	I'm, like the representative Øyvind Halleraker, really busy getting more goods over on the track. I was recently in Ofoten and I just got a demonstration of what a crossing track at Straumsnes has meant: a doubling of the freight capacity at Ofotbanen. Today's government has strengthened the railway budget by 70 p.m., and I also believe Halleraker knows that the increase in 2011 is close to 14 p.m. We are in the leadership of the National Transport Plan when it comes to maintenance and renewal. Based on what was discovered in winter, it was most necessary. But I still have the goal of implementing the NTP even when it comes to crossing tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e950	I thank you again for the answer. I heard the answer and noticed that I already had a serious deficit. The right has tried to help the government a little in political thinking, by launching a series of proposals and forward-looking policy solutions that go both to the organisation, funding and change of the plan regime. So all of this is in line with the government parties. We have also promoted a well-meaning proposal for an action plan for just crossing tracks, to help the government and the parties there from the speeches about more goods on the way to operational action to get this done. But also this goes against the government parties. You refer to NTP and a strategy, and you're already in arrears. When we see that the objectives are missing, would not a binding action plan, which we have in many other areas in the transport sector, be a good solution that the Council of State could support?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e959	I thank you for the helpful help from the Right side. Then I must stress that the debates that have taken place on the plan regime have led, for example, to this. Oslo–Ski now is planned partly on the basis of a government plan. It was a pleasure to sit with the municipalities it owes, and listen to how many they were about it. In fact, when it comes to crossing tracks, there is a plan in the national transport plan. Therefore, no separate plan is required. But what's entirely decisive is actually taking the situation into account year by year. When both Schenker and Posten – and even more than they – moved their goods over by car during the winter because there was a lack of presence on the Bergensbahnen, maintenance and renewal were essential there too. Then the crossing tracks are going to come later. The representative can be absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e972	‘The waiting time for mental health protection for adults has increased from 2nd tertiary 2009 to 2nd tertiary 2010. For children and adolescents, waiting time is reduced, but is still 73 days on average for rights spaces. For both children and young people, there is an increasing breach of the individual deadline for treatment during the same period. HELFO has entered into an agreement with institutions that are able to deal with time-limits, but very few referrals are made there. Will the Council of State grant patients the right to treatment in these institutions even before time-limits have expired?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e979	I understand the question so that the agreements HELFO has entered into with private institutions to obtain rights waivers at the end of the deadline are proposed in the same way as the agreements that the regional health companies themselves have entered into on the treatment of pre-term periods of entitlement. As a consequence, institutions would be included in the free choice of hospitals. There may be three reasons why HELFO's contracts cannot be used for the purposes of proceedings prior to the expiry of a time limit: Firstly, it is important that regional health enterprises are responsible for and run under the overall public supply of specialist health services. If regional health undertakings cannot control the scope and content of the agreements themselves, there is a risk that overcapacity may arise. Secondly, HELFO has concluded agreements relating to a relatively limited volume. The agreements entered into by regional health establishments with private institutions to treat pre-term periods of entitlement will be significantly higher. Considerations other than price and quality could then be important, for example: to prevent bias in the priority of patient groups. When regional health enterprises enter into agreements with private health care institutions for rights caps, this is done in the light of an assessment of priorities between different types of health care, the need for additional capacity and quality. Regional health enterprises will be able to address specific needs in their own region, as opposed to HELFO, which has a national responsibility. HELFO will only assess the price and quality of each treatment. Regional health establishments will therefore need to take much more into account in the selection of suppliers. Thirdly, it is likely that there will be a new agreement for the purposes of extending the scope of HELFO agreements. Therefore, the existing agreements cannot be used. Regional health establishments are likely to have agreements with some of those who will be involved in the contract with HELFO. They operate in the same private market. We therefore do not know to what extent it will lead to higher treatment volumes. However, I am concerned that there should be no delay, which I understand also that the representative Höie is concerned about. I therefore had a meeting with regional health companies on 20 September this year to look at the measures they are taking to avoid deadlines. On the same day, I sent a letter to the healthcare companies clarifying very clearly the information obligations of healthcare companies towards patients where a time limit for treatment has been set. I quote from the letter: «In such cases, the healthcare provider must seek to provide the patient with another offer within the time limit.»;
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1001	I note that none of the arguments used by the Minister of Health to open up so that patients can choose prompt treatment at once instead of waiting for deadlines are about what is best for the patient, but all the arguments are about defending the system for which the Minister of Health is responsible. I had hoped that the Minister of Health might feel even more responsible to those children and young people who today feel that the deadline is being broken, including in the area of mental health. In fact, there were 4,700 children and young people who did not receive help in 2009 by the deadline for treatment. Of these, 22 were registered with HELFO, and 17 were offered treatment via HELFO. When the Minister of Health does not want to open up a free choice at once, can the Minister of Health open the door so that HELFO can make contact with the patient instead of having to contact the patient himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1008	I am very concerned that patients should be treated within the time limit set, because the time limit is also set for the sake of soundness of treatment. So that's very important. That's what I want to be very firm. In particular, with regard to children and young people and mental health, I fully agree that it is very important to keep deadlines. Then, too, when you see that the time limit for treatment is running out, you have to act – before that time – so that an alternative offer can be made. I also tried to say that in my first answer. The most important thing is that there should be no delay and that patients who have received a date of treatment should receive treatment within that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1015	It is true that 4,700 children experience that the deadline is not met. Of those who experience that the deadline is not kept, 27 pst are actually waiting. two additional months of assistance. This is a situation where children and young people are so mentally ill that they have a time limit. That means they have a strong need for mental help. Several of the private operators in this area have a contract with HELFO with significant available capacity. One of the actors has received one patient during 2009, although 4 700 have experienced a breach of deadlines. Is not the Minister of Health concerned about making any changes to this system that actually allow patients to receive treatment when they need it, for example. that HELFO calls the patient immediately after the deadline has expired, rather than that the patient himself has to call?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1027	As I have also said, on 20 September, I clarified the importance of informing the patient before the deadline and of helping to obtain an alternative treatment, both in response to and in a letter to the regional health companies, because deadlines are not acceptable. It says in the letter, and it was recorded in the meeting. The nature of the measures that the different RHFs will take in order to avoid time-limits was also addressed, for the whole point is that we should avoid time-limits. I fully agree with the representative, Höie, that there have been too many deadlines. That's something that we're working very actively on to get settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1044	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Hedmark Police District has 16 operational posts for police lawyers, but only 11 of them are occupied. This results in an unacceptable long duration of treatment. The consequences of too few police lawyers include: high labour pressure and increased residuals. As of October 2010, there are 815 completed cases that are over three months of age. Are the Councils satisfied with this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1053	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the questioner to address an incredibly important part of the criminal proceedings, namely the work done by the criminal justice lawyers. We often have a lot of attention on police officers like that, and I think there is also a reason to have a lot of attention on the important work that police lawyers do on the whole country. Initially, I would like to point out that the number of prosecutors working in the individual police districts could vary over time, similar in other groups added to the establishment and in other groups in society. For the first police districts, the budgetary framework and the priorities of the police officers are leading the number of annual works that are at all times allocated to different tasks and job categories. In this respect, I point out that the budget framework for the Hedmark police district increased from 234.7 million. SEK in 2009 to 261.8 million. kr in 2010 – corresponding to an increase of 27 million. kr or 11,5 pst. From 2008 to 2009, the budget increased by 18 million. kr. From 2005 to 2010, while I have been a minister, the budget for Hedmark Police District has increased from 189.4 million. NOK 261.8 million. kr, an increase of 72 million. kr – 38 pst. And it's not because I'm from Hedmark that we've had such a huge increase; it's because the government has invested so massively in the police over the years we've been in government. So it's been a nationwide bet. The Ministry of Justice’s management of the police and officers’ seat is conducted in accordance with the principles of target and performance management. The annual letters of assignment to the Directorate of Police include: requirements for the achievement of objectives relating to the duration of proceedings, the percentage of clarification and the evolution of the balance. The steering signals we give are passed on in our own disposal letters to the police districts. Target formulations relating to criminal proceedings in the police and prosecution authorities are also accompanied by the Ministry of Justice’s letter of assignment to the national lawyer. Target achievement and trends are linked to established measurement parameters, as mentioned above. The issue of the number of prosecution lawyers and the evolution of the number of detentions in Hedmark Police District has been submitted to the Police Directorate. The Police Directorate reports that by 31 October 2010, Hedmark Police District had 15 prosecutors at work. This figure includes the head of the prosecution department in the police district. This figure does not include one police lawyer who was ill reported. As of 7 November, there are 13 prosecution lawyers at work. The reduction of two in relation to the month shift is due to the fact that one police lawyer went out on leave on 1 November, and another has been diagnosed. The situation underpins the fact that over time, for various reasons, there will be fluctuations in manning. It is the chief of police in Hedmark who has to decide how to deal with this situation, including: in relation to the development of the case in this area. The Directorate of Police otherwise informs that, as a result of targeted efforts by both investigators and prosecutors, there has been a positive development in the residual situation in the district, which is why both investigators and prosecutors should be given credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1068	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Much in society is about money – and perhaps the lack of money. The Minister of Justice said it was adjusted by 38 pst. At the same time, the trust-elect for police lawyers, Henning Klauseie, says to Hamar Arbeiderblad that ‘the police district has too little money and it has to save money to keep the budget. Therefore, the police chief leaves posts open’. Now I don't know if hedemarks are more criminals than others, and that therefore even more money is needed to keep us up to date. But the matter is now as it is. There are a lot of things that are being blamed because you don't have time, opportunities or resources to investigate. Violence is even being decreed. We can go back to April 14, 2010. Then there was also a nice article in Hamar Arbeiderblad, where you say that you have to settle down to save. Then there were crimes and cases up to 300,000 kroner to be settled. It is clear that this is a loss-loss case for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1082	I believe there are two challenges the government has faced in the development of police operations in all police districts in Norway. The first was that the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, trained too few policemen. We had to train more people to get more policemen in action. That's why we've not only doubled the recording to the Police College, but we've decided to triple the recording. Fortunately, it seems that many of those who are now coming out have also got a job. So one is getting people. The other thing is to get the money to pay them. I find it difficult to say that Hedmark police districts can be heard that the budgets have been lower in recent years, when growth has been 38 p.m. And then I'm going to say that it's not like people from Hedmark are committing more crime than others – I was talking rather against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1091	I guess that's not what I said, either, but it shows that 38 pst. not enough, because as it says, things are now being resolved that you had previously worked on. Examples of this are, therefore, less serious violent crimes, Nazism, shenanigans, less serious threats and frauds for up to $300,000. In my mind, these are crimes that should have been absolutely punished. This, of course, destroys the trust you need in a legal system, when those who commit a crime may be taken for it – and it is clear who has done it – but not punished for lack of money in the system, and, as in this case, for lack of police lawyers. I have the greatest confidence that those who work within the police, both police lawyers and anyone who works with this, do as good a job as they can, but they can't do it. That's why we're going to have a remainder of 815 cases that are over three months of age. I'm afraid that doesn't give you any confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1098	I get to concentrate on what's of positive development, because there's quite a lot of it in Police Norway. I think we should be careful to present it as if all the police districts are now moving in the wrong direction. Over the past year, we have seen very happy results. We see a percentage of intelligence rising, we see that the mobile profit criminals, who have also hosted in Hedmark, are very much stopped. We've had a significant decline in profit crime. It will always be the way – and not just the police, but all kinds of public sector – that priorities sometimes have to be set. If that's the way you choose in some cases to put away, for example. I think it's an affordable priority of the local police officers. But it's the local police officers who make priorities for how to spend the money, and I think that the growth in the district police budget is 38 pst. during the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1107	My question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The costs of a forced change of current meters showing deviations, shortly before the code of roll-out of the Advanced Measurement and Management System, AMS meters, is provided by regulator, may cost Norwegian power customers several hundred million kroner unnecessarily if the legislation is not amended. This is a poor social economy and a poor use of resources. Will the Council of State address this situation in order to avoid duplication of work and double costs, thereby safeguarding the interests of electricity consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1116	The regulation on the control of current meters is managed by Adjustvesenet. Through regulatory work, the NVE has been in dialogue with the Adjustervesen and is therefore familiar with the Adjustervesen control system to ensure that all current meters meet adopted precision requirements. I am aware that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has a complaint case from the Fortum Distribution AS concerning the control of energy meters by Adjustervesen, and that Energy Norway has been involved in this matter. Sick if the complaint will be dealt with under today's legislation, the NHD has informed them that they are aware of the issues raised by the representative and that they will take a closer look at the legislation after a decision has been taken in this specific case. The introduction of AMS in Norway has long been high on the political agenda. I have great faith that two-way communication between the network company and the consumer will raise awareness of energy consumption and also provide incentives for energy saving. As is known, the introduction of AMS requires the replacement of existing meters over time. Due to the EU standardisation work and the rapid development of technology in this area, it is appropriate to await final regulatory decisions on the introduction of the AMS. However, once the first phase of EU standardisation is completed, the NVE will re-assess the possibilities for faster progress. It is proposed that the NVE adopt the necessary regulatory changes to introduce the AMS by the end of the first half of 2011. After replacement, the network may be replaced by new meters which comply with the requirements of the AMS in the Regulation. See if the final date for roll-out by all customers is set at 1 January 2018, the Ministry expects many customers to install such meters well in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1129	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The replacement of old electrical meters must be parallel to the AMS, as the Council of State says. Energy Norway believes that coordination of exchange and introduction of AMS will be possible if the case is postponed by one year beyond the time normally allowed for replacement. It's a big machine to get started. The question is whether the State Council will take the initiative of a meeting between industry, control authorities, OED and NHD in order to find a solution that ensures the quality of electricity measurement and the socio-economic rational transition to new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1136	As I said in my first answer, I have been informed by the NHD that they are aware of these issues raised by the representative and that they will look into the legislation when this specific decision is taken. In that it is, if you combine it with what I also said in my answer about the possibilities to get the AMS gauges rolling out earlier than 2018, an opportunity to look at just being able to do several things at once. It's not possible for me to conclude here today, because it's Adjustvesenet that's responsible here, and it's not under my department. But it's obvious that from both sides it's time to look at the possibilities of meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1141	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The important thing for the consumer is that expenditure is up to 400 million. kr may have to be covered by online customers, while one expects that the network tariff will in any case increase due to the necessary investments. The economic regulation of network companies has socio-economic operations as an overall objective. It is therefore necessary to have an upper limit on the amount of electricity to be paid by grid customers for the transmission of electricity. The question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think it is socio-economically responsible to impose an additional cost on online customers, perhaps 400 million. kr, when the AMS is to be introduced in a short period of time, if one does not have a Adjuster Service scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1150	I am concerned that the network costs should be as low as possible. We need efficient operation of the network in Norway. So we know that we are facing significant investments in the network in the future, because they have been too low over a long time. It is obvious that it is important to focus on having as low a cost as possible in the network, when one sees the investment needs that come, and the costs that run because of it. To go into concrete detail now and conclude at both cost and process around a matter that Adjustervesen has to deal with is not possible for me to do. As I said, I perceive that the NHD and the Adjustervesen are concerned about finding the best possible solutions to this. We have the opportunity to get AMS meters out before 2018. Nothing would be better than that one here was able to avoid double installation, so that no money was spent on meters that are just a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1164	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. Just one comment: I see by reading today that I probably have not been completely consistent in the use of ‘child protection children’ and ‘childcare children’. But I have notified the Council of State in advance, so that I use ‘child protection children’ consistently now. The question is: ‘More than once in the last winter, government councils and government councils have been challenged by the unfairness of children’s homes when they want higher education and receive a refusal to apply for study support. On 25 February, the Council of State replied that the government wanted more child-restraint children to complete education and would look at the relationship between study support and other support schemes. Another study start has been completed and a new budget has been provided without any change for this group. When will the Council of State, with the help of the orphanage children, come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1175	As mentioned in my reply to the Stortinget on 25 February, the government is committed to increasing the proportion of child protection children who complete education, and we are working on further follow-up of the NOU 2009:18, Right to learning, which is the so-called Midlyng Committee, and NOU 2009:22, which is the so-called Flatø Committee. This case concerns young people aged 18 to 23, who are in post-hoc protection and live in foster homes or child-care centres. I would like to make it clear that those who do not live in foster homes or children's homes can receive support from the Loan Fund if the costs are not fully covered by the municipality. These young people, which we are now talking about here, who live in foster homes or children's care institutions, have expenses for housing, food, clothing and other living conditions covered by the public through the foster home allowance or through the grant to the child protection institution. The bulk of training aid shall also cover the provision of living. That's the case with the study support through the Loan Fund. Because these costs are already to be paid by the public through the foster home allowance, young people do not receive training support. Expenditure on education as such, i.e. however, books and other equipment are not covered by the ordinary foster home allowance. Students may apply to cover the costs through the municipality, but they have no unconditional right to such support. I think it is an important principle that the public should not cover the cost of living for a student more than once. The higher education aid scheme is structured in such a way that it is not possible to distinguish the part of the aid intended to cover expenditure on books, etc. The alternative is to allocate a full loan of approximately 90,000 kroner a year to these students. The Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion are now working together to explore how we can assist young people in the field of child protection who want higher education. In this context, in the near future, we will invite stakeholder organisations in this area to a meeting to hear more about the situation for those involved. I would like to make it clear that when we had the matter up last time, I said that we should aim for such a meeting in the autumn, and we will now follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1190	It is true that it was said that this work is in progress. I am pleased and grateful that the Council of State confirms that they take seriously that there is a group that may not be so large, but that may seem to be coming out unluckily. At the beginning of August of this year, the Council of State stated that they were now in a process with the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion to look at the current system could prevent anyone from moving on. If so, it is serious. I record that the Children's Ombudsman is very clear that this is discrimination, and also recalls the intention of the Loan Fund objective that everyone, regardless of background, should have an opportunity. Well, that does mean that you should look at whether you can find solutions, so that they can be captured. I hope that's the intention of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1199	It is clear that it is the intention of this Council of States and of the Government that everyone should have equal rights to education. The study support covers expenditure on living. The reason why we give loans and scholarships to students is that they should be able to live while they're studying. That's what this is for. That is why I want to uphold the principle. I expect the representative to agree with me on this principle, that when you already receive support for a state residence – in this case, for example. in foster homes – there is no reasonable reason to have it doubled. But I realize that there are other expenses, e.g. for books, travel expenses and other equipment, which may be discussed here. We have now decided a meeting where we will discuss this further with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion in order to get as smooth arrangements as possible, but we also want to listen to the representatives of the organisations involved, for example. the child-restraint children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1206	It is very good that this is now going on, and I can confirm that I agree with the Council of State that we must not get solutions with double payments for life. That's just the second piece I'm looking for, and that's why I hope the Council of State is taking an initiative in that. I record that the Council of State says that it is not possible today to distinguish between what goes into living and what goes into increasing study costs. Then maybe you should start a job to make it visible, or probably make it, and find a share. What we want is that child-restraint children, who are not a uniform group, have the same opportunity as others, that they can receive support in addition to living with others, and that they can also finally receive the reward that others receive when they have completed their education. They are also exempt today when they do not receive study support — and it is an exciting carrot to have. I'm very pleased that the Council of State says this is going on, and I expect that she will follow up on this particular piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1215	I believe that education is a good tool also for young people who have a difficult growth situation. I'm determined that we should do the best we can to facilitate helping with maybe the most important thing for this group of young people, that they get through high school and get completed. But this is about students – i.e. some education beyond higher education – and I think it is important to listen to the experiences they have gained. Together with the Ministry of Children and Family in this case, we are going to go into a very concrete and focused discussion of what challenges we can see, and how we can help with the extra, in the most flexible and good way possible, in addition to living, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1226	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for Culture who directs him. But we have a problem. The Minister of Culture is not in the Chamber. If she's right outside, she should get in as soon as possible, otherwise we either have to cancel the meeting or move on to question 12. But here comes the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1229	«The students at the new art academy in Tromsø now experience being excluded from an establishment scholarship scheme to which the students of the art education in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim have access. This different treatment will make it less attractive to apply for education in Tromsø and may not have been the intention of the Stortinge in establishing art education in Tromsø. What will the Council of State do to ensure equal treatment of arts students in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1236	It is right, as the representative says, that we have a scholarship scheme for graduate art students – it includes some education and not all. It is also true, as the representative says, that students at art education in Tromsø are not included in this scheme. Neither are the students studying abroad included in this scheme. Therefore, I will look at this whole scheme before I may include individual studies. There will still be many groups excluded from the scheme. There may be several options to address this challenge. One is to use the number of scholarship crowns today and spread them more widely to all arts training. Another option is to include students who have studied abroad. I understand that it can be unfair for individual students to be excluded from this scheme, but it is so that if we include the students in Tromsø, there will be other students who will experience the same thing. So I don't want to take in one and one group, but instead I want to look at the scheme as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1245	I have actually heard the answer from the Minister of Culture before, because I asked a written question and got this answer. That was the background for me now asking a fundamental question to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. I wonder if it is the Minister of Culture who has been appointed to answer this question, because this is a principle case, this is about equal treatment of education established in Norway. There have been many decades of struggles for an art education in Tromsø, which would be an equivalent education in line with the education in Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo. And then I think it might be a little bit sought that the Minister of Culture, when she replies now, indicates that we have some students abroad who might also be included in the education. No, this is a case of principle. The University of Tromsø feels cheated, and so do the students. I ask the question again: Does the government really think that we are going to have A- and B-art training in Norway, where the art training in Tromsø has completely different framework conditions than the other art training?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1254	There are quite a number of other art students than those who are students in Tromsø, who are not included in this scheme. These include: Bachelor's degree in dance at the University of Stavanger, which concerns the Film School in Lillehammer, the Bachelor's degree in traditional dance at NTNU and Ole Bull Academy, the Academy of Arts in Oslo – stage photography and drama – and the Academy of Arts in Nord-Trøndelag. I think it would be quite arrogant to say that we are now going to include one group of students, but refuse to ignore that there are actually quite a number of other students who are also outside this scheme. I have great respect for Elisabeth Aspaker speaking on the subject of the Tromsø students, and I have listened to the arguments. I think it is important to bring them with me in the further discussion. But it is not that I should decide on only one education when I decide who will receive a scholarship for an art education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1261	Since it is the Minister of Culture who is standing here and responding, I would like to follow up on the question: This evaluation work that has been carried out and which has been at the hearing – there have been regulatory changes in consultation – was intended to have been completed in spring 2009. Now one cool student has gone out in Tromsø, the next cool student has started in Tromsø, and still there is no end to this work. When can it be expected that this evaluation work will be completed? When can you find out what kind of framework conditions the students in Tromsø will have for the future? There is no hiding from the fact that the students look at the possibilities they have, including scholarships, in relation to where they are applying for their education. So this is an important question to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1268	Yes, I agree with the representative that this is an important question to clarify. I want to do this as quickly as possible, but there are also some fundamental clarifications that need to be made, linked to, among other things. whether or not to include foreign students in the plan. But at least I intend to clarify this in advance of the next deadline for applying for admission to higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1273	The President will also encourage the Council of State to be present in the Chamber at the moment when the question to be answered starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1280	«For the last time, peacocks with reindeer have invaded the land of the farmers of Gargia. Many farmers get their land destroyed for hundreds of thousands of dollars. The pure is pulling down on the ground because the reindeer is too high and there's not enough food in the mountains. I have raised this with the Council of State several times, but it is regrettable that the Council of State does not follow up its own decisions. When shall the Council of State take action and start with the slaughtering of pure so that we prevent pure hunger and farmers from destroying their crops?"
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1287	Just before I was notified at the end of last week that there had been large amounts of clean in the peaceful area of Gargia, I read a report in the Altapost that the ice front between reindeer and farmers in Alta melts after the parties have started talking. Finally, I underline. Furthermore, this report showed that so far there had not been any conflicts with clean soils this year, and that the parties had realized that there was a need to build conflict prevention fences somewhere. This I think was very positive reading, because the usual thing from previous years has been the very opposite, namely newspaper headlines describing conflicts and clean inland. The positive development is a result of a laborious work in which many parties have worked together, among others. by setting up a dedicated working group chaired by the County Council of Finnmark and by the establishment of a contact forum chaired by the municipality of Alta. Despite this positive development, it is a fact, as the representative of the Treldal stresses, that at the end of last week there were large quantities of pure. The areas of Gargia are still protected against reindeer grazing, and on the inn there is in any case no grazing right for reindeer. The grazing we are now seeing is thus clearly contrary to the existing conservation provisions, and I find that situation regrettable. I would also like to show that in this case I have engaged myself much, and probably more than is usual in such local grazing conflicts. Expulsion decisions were taken without delay in the district government of West Finland and with very short deadlines. The decision implies that if the reindeer did not have their own clean out, the periodic penalty payment and the use of helicopters at the operator’s expense would apply. The reindeer operators immediately started expulsion. The status of the case now is that, then, all clean is out of the area, and the situation is monitored by the Rein driftsadministration. In the process, close contact was also established between Rein driftsverwaltungen and Alta Municipality to facilitate the expulsion work. In addition, there has been good dialogue with other interests during implementation. So to Treldal's question about how I'll follow up my own decisions, including when I want to start the slaughtering of the reindeer. In this respect, I have to remind you that it is the Board of Directors of Rein drifts or the District Council which, at the time the Act was adopted by the Stortinge, has been given the competence to take decisions to order the cessation of illegal activities and to take a decision on enforcement measures. In addition, the Ministry is kept up-to-date on the work currently being done through the development of rules of use for reindeer pastures. Where there is an excess of purity in relation to the purity established by the rules of use, the reindeer district is required by the Reindeer Farming Act to draw up reduction plans. If this is not the case, the law provides guidance on how to reduce numbers and, furthermore, the law of Chapter 11 on penalties and coercive measures provides for different measures to be taken. The clean-up and clean-up management boards are now engaged in a hectic work on the assessment and approval of district usage rules. I believe, of course, that the same administrative bodies will effectively and consistently follow up on any future breaches of these rules, especially with regard to the purgatory. I will also, as I have made it to now, follow up these questions very closely on my own.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1304	I record that there's a difference between me and the council, and the difference is that I'm talking to the people. I've been talking to others. Alta Bondelag, who has contacted me on this issue, and I can also read that the rapporteur in Alta is now asking for slaughter. So there's obviously a long way between life and learning here. It's not just in West Finland that too high a reindeer creates problems. Yesterday I saw on Sameradio's television news Oddasat that a reindeer district in East Finland is destroying for two other smaller districts, and according to the NRK, the district has 4,000 too much pure compared to the fixed reindeer number. This is a problem that has persisted without the reindeer authorities being able to do anything. That's the exact same thing as in Alta – you know about it, but you can't do anything. Does this not show that the state council and the reindeer manager have lost control of the reindeer development throughout Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1311	There is not a long way between life and learning. We follow the laws and regulations, and as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I would like to stress that I am at least as concerned as Slavery that agriculture in this area should have as safe and predictable a situation as possible. I keep myself constantly informed about the matter, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has close contact with Rein driftsnögningsmanagementen in this specific case. Then it must also be emphasised, as I was in the answer, that the concrete follow-up is to be done locally and within the framework of the reindeer management law. Finnland is the country's largest reindeer farm, and reindeer farming will have to be dealt with in different ways. But that does not mean, of course, that the reindeer does not have to comply with the laws and regulations in force. I am quite clear that the parties that are now involved in this conflict in Alta have a completely different dialogue now than before. It gives hope for a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1318	Clearly, the Council of State and I disagree and remain in disagreement. What's the problem when the government doesn't take responsibility for this is that it becomes like domino tiles, when one domino chip falls on another, then everything falls. That's what's now happening in Finnmark. When one district doesn't follow up, this is over, and then there are problems all over Finnmark. What was a problem in the West has become a problem throughout Finnmark. The new reindeer management law states that the districts themselves are to lay down district rules for, inter alia: the cut-off number shall be established and approved. But only a few districts have followed the law to make such plans. First of all, it is said that it is the responsibility of the Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung. The reindeer management – with all due respect – is under the responsibility of the Council of State. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the Council of State and responsibility cannot be delegated out. So the question is, how long is the Council of State going to keep this going, while the reindeer keep growing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1325	It is true that there may be domino effects in the event of excessive cleanness and breach of the legislation. However, what is a fact is that each side-pure district is responsible for developing its own rules of use and notifying them to the Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung. It happens, it is reviewed, and in cases where these reindeer districts do not agree, the reindeer managers shall enter and determine the reindeer numbers and then implement the measures necessary to bring the reindeer down to the appropriate level. Here the job is done daily. Here it is followed up, and I would like to stress that this is where the reindeer managers do a good job, in my opinion. At the same time, it is not surprising that there are major challenges in terms of reindeer management in Finnmark with too high reindeer rates. The high reindeer number is the responsibility of reindeer operators, and they have to deal with laws and regulations, and it is my responsibility to follow up that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1334	I have asked the following questions: «For both effective and legal certainty of users, archiving is an important part of public sector activity. Today, it is difficult to see who in the public sector has a general responsibility for this. In the transition to the digital age, we have great opportunities to find very rational solutions, while, at the same time, the process should be documented and verifiable. What will the Council of State do to strengthen the work of public sector archiving?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1343	Public sector archiving is governed by the Archive Act and its regulations, which fall under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. It follows from Section 6 of the Archive Act that each public body has a separate obligation to ensure that it has archives that are ‘organised and arranged so that the documents are secured as sources of information for the past and for the future’. It follows from the archival regulation that public bodies are obliged to keep archives which comply with the rules governing archives laid down by regulation. In view of this, the national archivist, who was primarily responsible for the archive sector, has, among other things: developed an archive standard to be used by public archive creators in their archive work. The Archives Act gives the National Archives a supervisory responsibility for the entire public sector. This shall ensure compliance with the provisions on sound archive management. The National Audit Office’s study of the preservation and making available of archives in the municipal sector points out, among other things: there are major deficiencies in the management of the municipal archives and that these are deficiencies which could have been identified at an earlier stage if the national archives had carried out sufficient supervision. The Ministry of Culture has asked the National Archives to improve their procedures for the supervision and guidance of public archives. This work has begun. Furthermore, work is under way on revising the general regulatory framework for the public sector in order to ensure better document management in some public archives. To date, there has been too much focus on delivery in the archiving process. In order to ensure good archiving, which in turn provides a basis for good and safe documentation for the future, the archive system must be included when new work processes and tools are used. Some of these issues have been addressed in St.meld. No 24 for 2008-2009, National Strategy for the Digital Conservation and Dissemination of Cultural Heritage. At the same time, there is a need to assess more comprehensive treatment of both the archive sector and the information management process. From 2010 onwards, the National Archives will issue an electronic questionnaire to municipalities, county councils and intercommunal archival depots. This will be the start of annual reporting to the National Archives on the working conditions of the addressees and form the basis for further follow-up to the local government sector. All municipalities, county councils and intercommunal archival depots must report by the end of 2011 on the state of the premises with older and completed archives. The state archives will follow up the reporting. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Culture will speed up the work on establishing a comprehensive plan for the archive sector, where ABM development and the Swedish Archives Agency will also be involved in the matter. In this context, we have to assume that we are in the middle of a tearing technological development. Archive-worthy material is emerging in new channels, including: in connection with the use of social media. My director now assesses the assumptions and obstacles that management uses social media, and it will also shed light on the creation of archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1358	I thank the Council of State for this answer. The answer reflects a bit of a kinky problem in relation to the archive area. It's like archives have to be thought about in two stages. First, the stage in which the archive is created – that is, what is to be stored for the future – is built up by a procedure. Then comes the time when it's finished and the delivery, which the Council of State has entered, happens. Then we're concerned with how it's stored, and whether you can find out again in the future. The last one is obviously in good hands in the Ministry of Culture, although we're going to have a discussion there about ABMU's liquidation and whether the Council of Culture is a suitable place. The first, on the other hand, falls a little between two chairs, because there we are talking about a competence that is now attached to the Cultural Council, and there is little reason to believe that the Council of Culture will serve that kind of competence. My question is more about how we can maintain and develop the competences that part of the modernisation for which the Council of State is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1369	As I said in my reply, the Directorate for Administration and ICT has just started a work to assess how we, among other things, work. should relate to social media, which we use more and more of in government as well. In the field of archival creation, the National Archives have developed a separate strategy plan that also looks at these issues, the Digital Challenges of the Archives, which will help to create rules. Clearly, we are in a change of pace. There is much more now going on through digital solutions, and therefore the Ministry of Culture has now allocated extra money to digitise more of its tools. Finally, I would like to say that Nav is now creating an electronic archive. It will be among those things that will both facilitate the Nav situation and are important for getting good archives in the future. Finally, the Ministry of Health has done a great deal of work to get its archives under safe conditions by creating the health archive at Tynset.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1376	So now it's not the storage I'm after. The point here is that in the public sector, when processing is done, there is a need for archival skills, not storage skills, and how this is formed. On the one hand, it is a matter of making it easy for the public sector to rediscover matters and of ensuring that the procedure is as smooth as possible and as effective as possible. But it's also about legal certainty for users and good structures there. The question is, where does that competence take place? Today it's not that easy to see it. Divi, the Directorate of Administration and ICT, would be a natural place to deal with it, and it would be a natural place for the creation of archives to find their special competence – many more suitable than the Council of Culture. The question is whether the Council of State would consider building up such competence in diffi.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1383	At least I am interested that the competence that Divi possesses can be used when we create archives. But I think it's important to hold on to the fact that the Archives will be the natural body to develop that kind of standards. In this context, NOark is important – that we have a standard that we arrange the documents for, and that we create media that allows you to retrieve documents in retrospect. I believe that the NOARC standard is one of the essentials, so that we have file creation that is both transparent and from which it is later possible to retrieve documents from. We like to cooperate with other departments about the expertise that exists in my department, and this will also apply to the Swedish Archives, to the extent that they need that kind of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1392	This question, from the representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen to the Minister of Labour, will be answered by the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church on behalf of the Minister of Labour, who has a disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1395	«In the Official Journal of Bergen on 31 October this year you can read about Maria’s Nav diary. As an ombudswoman and a fellow human being, this is not a very pleasant reading, which the Minister of Labour may also support. 193,000 cases are pending treatment at Nav. So far this year, Nav has received over 30,000 complaints about different decisions. There are 10,000 more than two years ago, and this shows that one is at a completely wrong course when it comes to handling the Nav case. When, if necessary, will this turn around, and what will the Council of State now do about action to get this on the right track?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1402	The representative’s questions are essentially addressed to two aspects: the length of the proceedings in the Labour and Welfare Office and the number of complaints brought by the institution. In addition, the representative refers to a diary written by a Nav user, mentioned in the Official Journal of Bergen on 31 October this year. It always makes the impression to hear about individual stories, but I ask for understanding that for the sake of professional secrecy I cannot comment on this individual matter. During 2009 and 2010, the State of Labour and Welfare has worked systematically and purposefully to deal with several issues and reduce the length of proceedings. Among other things, work processes have been streamlined, procedures have been clarified, and procedural support systems have been developed and put into service. This work continues to have a high priority in the department. In addition, the Ministry has been subject to legislation to simplify the procedure in the establishment, and the operation of the establishment has been strengthened both in 2008 and 2009. The increase in operational appropriations continued in 2010. As a result of these measures, the target for the number of cases to be dealt with at the end of 2009 has been reached at about the same level as at the end of 2006. Until 2010, the number of treatment cases has remained largely unchanged. It is correct, as the representative points out, that the number of complaints to be dealt with has increased somewhat. The Director of Labour and Welfare has informed the Ministry of Labour that the reason for this is that several applications have been dealt with and that the proportion of rejected users has increased somewhat. Although the development of treatment and procedural time issues is in good development, the Ministry will continue to pay close attention to this area. This also applies in the appeal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1417	I thank you for your answer. The Progress Party has proposed the creation of Nav ombuds at several times – and has received support from several, but not from the government. The government says in the Soria Moria II statement that they should consider a welfare environment/Nav environment. How much time should the government spend evaluating this? Or has an already evaluated this away?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1424	In the absence of the Minister of Labour, I am not up-to-date on where the case is being dealt with in terms of the Nav Ombudsman in concrete terms. But what I can say is that the Ministry of Labour has a high focus on increasing user satisfaction, and getting cases through has been a priority area for good practice. It is also important that we ensure that each user experiences a good meeting with Nav, and that you feel properly treated. I also think it's important when we look at the number of things in the Nav system, that you remember that there are hundreds of thousands of things coming to Nav every single month. The flow of things has been improved, but it is always looking to see individual things where people have not experienced proper treatment, and I am sure that the Minister of Labour will focus on the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1431	I'm a nurse. Before our sector, there are a number of places that you call primary care or primary contact. This is part of responsible for one as a human being, including as an infirmary. Does the Council of State think that this had been a solution also for Nav who had thus given Nav a face and a responsibility out to the users? Is the Council of State in favour of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1438	I think it is important that Nav users meet case handlers who know their situation. Some of the intention of the whole Nav reform is that the treatment of matters that do not need personal contact should be done in offices and in systems other than direct public contact, with the individual user. What the whole Nav system is all about is that we're going to get close between the user and the individual case handler, and the fact that you get to meet the individual case handler when you find it appropriate, I think it's a good arrangement. I hope that the individual Nav offices strive to do so. Also within each Nav office, there may be specific issues that individual case handlers have more knowledge of than others, and it may be reasonable to replace case handlers sometimes. But that you have one case handler to deal with, I think is a good arrangement in the Nav system as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1447	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In the Online Daily of 8 October, the Council of State states that those with development disabilities are entitled to live where they want to, even if they are dependent on services that are more extensive than those for others and that charge the responsible local authority expenditure. ‘I am very concerned that this should be observed in practice around Norway’, says Dagbladet.no. How will the Council of State ensure that this understanding of the law is taken into account in all Norwegian municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1456	People with developmental disabilities have the right to an independent life and to be part of society together with others, and they have the same choices as others. It was the main content of what was called the HVPU reform, or the responsibilities reform, that was adopted 20 years ago. This still applies. People with developmental disabilities, like everyone else, should not be discriminated against. The right to choose depends on how you want your own home, whether you want to buy a dwelling, rent a dwelling, live for yourself or live with others – exactly the same rights as the rest of the population have. So it's like many people have special needs for help because of their developmental inhibition. According to the Social Services Act, the municipality has a duty to provide services to persons who cannot take care of themselves or who are dependent on practical and personal assistance to perform their daily activities. Persons in such a situation are entitled to social services. Similarly, health services under the Local Health Services Act apply. It is often seen as a practical solution that people in need of continuous assistance services can live in different forms of book-collective or co-located apartments for people with disabilities. In practice, an overall assessment of the service needs of this dwelling may sometimes be made rather than an individual assessment of individual needs. In the context of the responsibilities reform, Stortinget wanted to invest in more flexible schemes adapted to the individual. It was just emphasised that housing offered by the municipality should not have an institutional character. The Minister for Health and Welfare underlined in the Question Time on 3 February: «The right to necessary services is, in principle, independent of place of residence.» The service shall be adapted to the user, not vice versa. Only in very special cases can the municipality impose conditions that a person must live in a special place in order to be able to receive services. That's what I said in the interview with Dagbladet. Here we are not talking about new policies, but we are talking about a need to clarify what kind of legislation applies. We're talking about finding that the same principles apply to all people, because it seems that the rights are more often ignored when it comes to people with developmental disabilities. I see too many signs that some municipalities have returned to more institutional thinking, and that we see segregation in schooling for children with developmental disabilities. That is why I think we need to raise awareness of the legislation. It was the intention of the information and development programme that we recently launched, which draws up a series of measures to increase policy information and awareness. The programme itself is important. This will make municipalities more aware of the type of rules and rights that apply, and it can not least be used by the less developed themselves and their organisations to claim their rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1478	I thank you for the answer, but there was nothing new in what the Council said. In fact, he did not answer the question I asked. The rules that the Council of State now took 3 minutes to reproduce are rules that have been in force since the 1990s. Those rules do not follow up on the municipalities. We've seen in the past, especially in recent years, that we're getting more and more ghetto-like homes for people with developmental disabilities. Among other things, it is due to the financing arrangements in the Husbank, that it is more profitable for municipalities to organise institutionally-like housing for the less developed. The same has also been pointed out from among others. researches Terje Olsen in Nordic Research and Jan Tøssebro, professor at NTNU, that the programme to which the Council of State refers is not sufficient and sufficient. So my question will be again: how will the Council of State ensure that the municipalities comply with the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1487	There is no call for new legislation. Nor have I seen that it is from the opposition, because the law is good enough. The question is whether legislation is being followed up everywhere, whether it becomes a reality in the meeting between the individual and the individual's family and municipalities. Then there's a sense of what the law is, and how it's supposed to be understood, which is the key. That is why the information and development programme is so important. It is itself a tool to achieve what is now on the agenda of the municipalities of the country, and it contains a number of measures to increase the level of awareness. We are now going through concrete meetings with the municipalities of the country where we are going through the content of the programme. It will also be a tool for the organisations of those with disabilities to use in specific cases where the rights required by the legislation are not being exercised. So it's just to follow up what the representative is concerned about, that we've created the information and development program.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1492	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the commitment he has shown to the less developed, and for the fact that an information programme has also been set up for this policy. But that program, to my knowledge, is far too little ambitious. It is too small to be accurate, which has also been pointed out by several people. I would quote from Dagbladet on 15 October, where senior researcher Terje Olsen in Nordlandsforschung states the following: ‘The most important issue today is the construction of large housing communities.’ No action has been promoted that violates this, i.e. that will make it easier to get smaller communities more organised. Then again, my question to the Council of State, which I have not received a concrete answer to, will the Council of State introduce the same rules for house bank financing as it had in the 1990s? The second is, how will the Council of State follow up legal certainty in the event of a breach of anti-developmental rights, which has also been a major issue in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1506	In the case of a public book, it is fundamental to the law that everyone has the right to choose where to live, they have the right to choose who to live with, and the municipalities have to adapt their services to it. Only in extreme cases shall that principle not apply. That means that for the most, most of the people with developmental disabilities, there is a right of this kind. It is precisely to make it clear that we have put so much emphasis on the right to choose where to live, in the information and development programme. I think that the representative Eriksson and I share the goal of where we're going and the commitment to it. And I wish he had been present at the launch of the information and development programme, because the reception among those involved is a completely different from what the representative says here. The leader of the Norwegian Association of Developmentally Disabled People says this is the most important thing that has happened in the field in the last decade. And I put the utmost emphasis on what the organizations of the developing people say even about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1513	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-10.ana.ud753e1526	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. It is then up to the President to ask for the representative who is now in the Chamber to speak before the sitting is cancelled. – It doesn't look like this.
