ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e26	Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Morten Höglund on leave from 17 March to 19 March to attend the Committee of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Washington from the Højres Storingsgruppe on health leave for the representative Sylvi Graham from 17 March until further notice from the representative Borghild Tenden on welfare leave from 17 March to 24 March from the Socialist Left Party Group on welfare leave for the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland from 17 March to 22 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tone Liljeroth, Bente Stein Mathisen and Abid Q. RajaFor Rogaland County: Lasse Kinden Endresen
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e77	Tone Liljeroth, Bente Stein Mathisen, Abid Q. Raja and Lasse Kinden Endressen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e85	The representative, Mr Schou, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e88	On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Elisabeth Aspaker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Lars Myraune, Bjørn Lødemel and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the evaluation of the predatory game settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e93	The representative, Inbjørg Vosskensen, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e96	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik, Kenneth Svendsen and the undersigned, I would like to submit a proposal for an approval system for refurbished and amateur-built vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e101	The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e105	On behalf of the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Robert Eriksson, Oskar Jarle Grimstad, Tord Lien, Torgeir Tjäldal and myself, I am delighted to propose changes to the management of predatory policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e110	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e132	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – State Council Trond Giske, – Tora Aasland State Council, – Councillor Audun Lysbakken The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Solvency Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e147	We have recently witnessed media images of frightening depictions of some children's attitudes toward Jews. Unfortunately, this is no new issue, because in 2004, the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia produced a status report on antisemitism in the EU countries, and the overall trend was clear: violence against Jews in Europe has increased sharply since 2000. It was mainly right-wing outreach groups and young Muslim-related immigrants who had such attitudes. Therefore, unfortunately, there is no new situation that has recently been detected in the Norwegian press. It is directly frightening to hear about teachers who dare not stand up to these grotesque attitudes of fear of reprisals or other punishments from environments that threaten to threaten and violence against teachers and Jewish children. Arnulf Upperland said the following in the poem «You must not sleep»: ‘You must not tolerate the wrong that does not strike you!’ I cannot record that the red-green government, with the Minister of Education and the Minister of Children and Gender Equality at the head, has lifted a finger to combat or counteract the racial hatred and anti-semitism that Jewish children obviously experience every day in Norwegian school. What we have heard a lot about, however, are SV politicians who want Israel-Boikot and other critical positions towards the only democratic state in the Middle East. The government’s navigable attitude toward Jewish hatred in Norway, along with what many perceive as stigmatisation and criticism of Jews and Israel, has contributed to Jewish children experiencing harassment and bullying in school everyday life. This is totally unacceptable, and the Advance Party believes that the Government must now wake up and show its power of action. My question to the Council of State Lysbakken will then be: Will the Council of State, in cooperation with the Minister of Education, ensure that immediate action is taken against the stigmatisation, hotness, history falsification and bullying that Jewish and Norwegian children are exposed to every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e165	It's a very important issue the representative addresses. I react very strongly to what has happened in the case of anti-Semitic bullying in Norwegian schools. There is something totally unacceptable, affecting Jewish children in Norway, as well as the schoolwork, the students concerned, and Muslim environments – as far as I can understand, students with Muslim background have to deal with it. I'm going to demand that they get hold of it. There are frightening attitudes that have emerged in NRK's reports, and we have to address them in different ways. One is to continue to reinforce overall bullying in school with a particular focus on racist bullying. It is a particularly serious and hateful form of bullying. Then we have to convey knowledge about the history of Judaism as religion. This is why, for example, calls for: Norwegian schools to mark the Holocaust Day on January 27th each year, in order to reinforce the historical memory of the Holocaust. We focus on this in terms of teaching materials, and we are now participating in an international working group to promote holocaust education. It is completely wrong that the Government does not take this into account. Today, Kristin Halvorsen has invited the head of the Mosaic Religious Society to a meeting – it will take place later today – just to discuss how we can continue to work on this. The Minister of Knowledge has also had strong reactions to what has now been revealed. So I would warn against what the representative is doing, namely meddling Israel's policy on the issue of bullying Jewish children. Jewish children in Norway will not be held responsible for what Israel is doing, and it is a responsibility we must all take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e176	I thank you for the answer, even though I am far from reassured by the answer given by the Council of State. I do not agree that we cannot interfere with the propaganda that the SV politicians are doing in relation to this issue. Already in January 2009 the Lysbakken wrote in a chronicle the following: ‘The extent of attacks on Jews has increased markedly in Europe in recent years. In Norway, too, reports of Jewish children living with the fear of bullying at school are now coming.’ This is actually over a year ago, and we have a Minister of Education who goes out and says it's the teachers and the principals who are cowards. My question to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is also Minister for Discrimination, is: What concrete action has the Council of State Lyssbakken taken to combat the harassment of Jewish children after he became Minister for Child and Gender Equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e190	This is something I am very concerned about, because we need to strengthen the protection of discrimination, and we need to strengthen the fight against racism in Norwegian society. I have a very good conscience for the efforts my party has made here. It's a little special that the Progress Party is now focusing on racist bullying. It's time, it's good. I hope we see a greater commitment around it in the future. It's not that politicians can just decide to abolish that kind of hatred in our society. We have to fight it, we have to take positions on it. As for what is happening in schools, we must demand that teachers and the school management take responsibility, and then we must enable them to do so – just to discuss how we can strengthen the efforts that should be directed especially now towards anti-Semitic bullying, which is the theme of the meeting Kristin Halvorsen will have with the Mosaic Religion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e195	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e198	I have a follow-up question to the Council of State. Governments explained what SV wants to do with bullying in school. SV has gone high on the path to combat just this. You've been told that you have a focus on it, and it's going to have to hit hard. But what the teachers say is that there's a notorious hanging out of Jews in school, and that you legitimize this in the Oslo schools. SV has also been high on the ground for campaigns against Israel. It is to be boycotted oranges – everything that comes from Israel is to be boycotted, which also has consequences for the Jewish people who live in Israel. The bully has grown up in the shelter of a persistent sense of amnesia behind the catheters in school. I have a question for the Council of State: Will the Council of State recommend the Party SV and the Party leadership to tone down this activity against Israel? Does not the Council of State see that this also has consequences for bullying in schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e207	I'm very responsive to someone trying to make this a matter of Israel's policy – and it's the representative himself who makes it into it. I have seen that connection taken from that side of Norwegian policy several times. This is very unfortunate, because the signal that is then sent is that Jewish children in Norway are somehow to be considered collectively responsible for the State of Israel. We must be very careful to say that the state of Israel's attitudes are the responsibility of the State of Israel, not something that Jews in Israel or elsewhere in the world are collectively responsible for. But the opposite, that is, not being able to have an open debate on Israel's policy, will also be completely wrong. We need to be able to conduct that debate in a way that does not lead to this kind of hoarseness and harassment. Then it becomes particularly important that we are very clear about our attitude towards anti-Semitic bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e212	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e216	It is often the case that children inherit attitudes from parents, from their surroundings. They usually do not come completely unimpaired into the Norwegian school. Much of what we are now seeing is probably a stamping-out of debates in minority environments, but sometimes also in the big community of Norway. It is not uncommon for individuals to be collectively held responsible for their ethnicity or their religion in the Norwegian political debate, either. I think it's incredibly important that we now find strategies to combat both antisemitism and other types of racism in both Norwegian school and Norwegian society. One of the things we have to do is to make sure that it doesn't develop a thought that the Holocaust hasn't happened, or that the 9/11 is an American or Jewish conspiracy – all the things that get to grow undisturbed. One of the ways you have worked with anti-Semitian Norwegian attitudes, including: work related to White buses and confrontation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to do something like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e225	I agree. It's important, I think, on the one hand to focus very clearly on what we can do in school when it comes to, for example. providing both knowledge of different religions in general and, in particular, historical events in particular. In the case of holocaust, we participate in a cooperation to promote holocaust education. There has also been a survey of knowledge of racism and Nazism in Norwegian schools. It's very important. Then I believe that this is the case, for example. the parents who have children involved in this type of bullying, a responsibility that we must be willing to challenge. It's of those things that both the Minister of Knowledge and I are going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e232	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e235	A year ago, the Christian People's Party took up with the Government the need for a separate action plan against antisemitism. We thought it was necessary to better monitor antisemitism in Norway, better monitoring of websites and extreme settings, better school education, among others. mandatory training on holocaust, better learning material, more study tours for concentration camps and also targeted measures against the bullying of Jewish students. This rejected the Prime Minister and said that the Government was working with an action plan – which I have here – to promote equality and prevent ethnic discrimination. In this plan, the word antisemitism is referred to once, and it is in an annex. So my question is: does the government insist that there is no need for a separate action plan against antisemitism?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e240	I am concerned that we should have a broad and strong anti-discrimination law and work in Norway. This means that, among other things: develop action plans related to combating racism and related to combating harassment in Norway. We have a racism problem with different groups in this country. The problem is bigger than what we like to believe, and it affects several of this society's minorities. It's extremely important, the focus we're now getting on the fact that this is highly relevant to the Jewish minority in Norway. I'd like to look at how we can put measures in place to get rid of anti-Semitic bullying in particular. These include: therefore we propose to have a separate dialogue with the Mosaic Religion now. At the same time, I am very concerned that we should have anti-discrimination work in Norway, that it should cover everyone and be effective against all groups who are discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e247	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e250	During the riots/demonstrations in December 2008 and January 2009, some Muslim youths cried out: Death of Jews! At the dialogue meeting in March last year, with the Crown Prince and Imre Hercz present, a speaker said the following from the pulpit: Nordics are born skiing on their legs, Brazilians with football, Jews are born with deceit and hypocrisy in their blood. Minorities, Muslims like Jews, are very concerned about this development. It is therefore affordable for the NRK and the press to focus on the issue. This hatred not only harms Jews and society, but also Muslims most. Is the Minister of Inclusion able to challenge Muslims, or are Muslims a protected and protected group in Norway that is inviolable? Racism must be challenged, regardless of whether politicians, school students, brown, black, white, Muslims, Jews or Christians present it. The question is therefore: Is the Minister of Inclusion able to challenge the Muslims, or is the Muslims a protected and protected group that is inviolable?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e259	First, I want to commend the representative Raja for those dialogue meetings. It is a good example of how we can create the debate on inclusion and integration that this society needs. As the Council of State, I am trying to take similar initiatives to create more dialogue. That dialogue must, of course, be based on challenging everyone. In this country, everyone has to be challenged, and there are some common values that everyone has to adapt to, without exception. I make demands on Muslims in Norway, as I do to other groups, and in the further dialogue with the Muslim communities, I believe it is absolutely necessary and in place to make a crystal clear demand that a settlement be made with that kind of attitude in Muslim environments. It is a responsibility of Muslim parents to show clearly both their children and their own environment that this kind of behaviour towards Jews is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e266	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e269	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Over the past few weeks, the media throughout the country have referred to child protection in crisis. Some statesmen now go to the step of almost depriving individual municipalities of child protection responsibilities. This shows the seriousness of the situation. The case in Westfold is also an example of the fact that awareness messages do not show that child protection measures are too few and that they are too late. As a result, many children in this country experience a daily life without security, without care, without adults taking responsibility for them. These are the kids who are least loved, but who may need love most. Is it not the case that the Council of State does not see that it is absolutely necessary to include immediate measures in the field of child protection as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e276	This case in Westfold is one of many that has focused on the failure of our child protection. It's something I'm taking very seriously. We have several challenges in child protection. Some are related to the resource situation, because the number of issues in child protection has grown so strongly. Some are linked to structure and interaction. We have to have different solutions to different problems. It is necessary to go in clearly, with the intention of turning stones in terms of organisation. That is why I have now ordered an evaluation of the administrative reform carried out in 2004 and which created the Children’s, Youth and Family Status. It's my clear intention to go into it critically to see if we can organize the second line of our child protection in a better way than what we're doing today. And I appreciate that also the opposition, which in its time initiated this reform, now shows the willingness to participate in such a debate. Municipal Child Protection has a resource challenge, not because there has not been much money allocated to child protection from this room in recent years – the manning of child protection has partly increased, 33 pst. between 1998 and 2008 — but because the number of cases increases even more. It shows, on the one hand, that child protection succeeds in doing a better job with vulnerable children, while on the other hand it shows that the extent of care failure in this country is greater than what we have previously been able to reveal, so that there are now many issues that need to be addressed. This is why it is important for the Government to bring about a better resource situation in municipal child protection. In addition, I want to look at what changes to the rules we can make for, for example. to get something done about the manning situation in the smallest municipalities, as some places are far too bad, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e290	I thank you for the answer, but an evaluation does not help those children who are suffering from a lack of care today. The problem is that this is the fourth child and family minister in four years who gives the same answer in this room. And I understand it so that the Council of State can afford to wait. Those children who really need child protection can't afford to wait, because they experience adults who don't take that responsibility every day, and don't give them the security that children need. The fact that the county officials are now intervening and depriving some municipalities of the responsibility for child protection is enough evidence that the government is completely wrong. The government has been in charge for almost five years, now you have to see action. Let me ask the Council of State once again: does he not see the seriousness of the fact that child protection is now in an acute crisis situation? What will he do as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e299	I don't think the representative should make this a game of who sees the seriousness. I see the seriousness of this. That is why I am working more on child protection than on any other question. And I'm working on it every day, because it's urgent, and because we don't have any time to lose. So that's how we're going to do what we're going to do, we're going to do it right. The story of child protection is not a story of politicians not doing anything, but of politicians doing too much that has been wrong. That's why it's my clear ambition not just to grab hold of it, but to grab hold of it that works. I note that in the debates we have in this Chamber on child protection, the opposition is unable to gather on the immediate measures that will work. There are different opinions about how to make our child protection work better. The bourgeois government created the child protection reform. It is good that the bourgeois opposition now sees that something was done there that was not good enough. There's a hurry to grab hold of it. I'm working on it, so that we take action that works. It's extremely important now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e310	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e313	I am pleased to hear that the Council of State is thinking of addressing this with structure in a basic way. But it worries me to hear – if it is – that we now have to wait for an evaluation, which will then be dealt with, and then it comes as a matter of urgency, because the matter is urgent. In this way, the government must also take responsibility for the urgency of the matter. So it had to be a fourth child and family minister in the red-green government before – maybe – something happens. Some of the feedback that comes now shows that there is a significant red tape, not least in the state child protection, in Buffetat. The money doesn't come to those who need it, the children. The government has now sat on Thorbjørnrud and distributed the money. What will the Council of State do to make this year's budget a simpler procedure, a simpler way to get the money to those who need it, namely the children? It may not be necessary to wait for an evaluation to take these steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e322	We must, as I said in my first answer, attack this on two levels. One concerns the structural issue of national child protection. Here, it is necessary to evaluate the whole reform in order to be able to finally conclude. That doesn't mean that nothing can be done in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e327	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e332	For example, the question of red tape is one of what I have asked to be evaluated, because I think it is important that we are sure that we use the resources we have, as effectively as possible. In the case of municipal child protection – many of the issues that are now being raised are due to the lack of resources in municipal child protection – it is such that in the current year’s budget we have assumed that municipalities have room for 400 new posts. It is still too early to say how the municipalities lie in relation to that goal. We know that there are more jobs, but we don't know how many. The government has said, and that's what I say, that there is a need for 1,500 new jobs in the next few years. This year the municipalities have the opportunity to show that they are able to deliver this, through the means we have used. If they don't, we have to look at other instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e339	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e342	The answers from the state council are just not good enough. ‘Child protection fails children’, said the representative Stokkan-Grande last week, when we discussed the matter. The government has almost five years to deal with the crisis in child protection. Unlike the Government, the opposition actually comes with concrete proposals. It doesn't do this government yet, because they're always going to look at things first. Child protection is the most important tool for politicians to help those children who really need help. That's why we're so totally dependent on having a child-restraint that works. The Committee was visiting South-Trundellag on Monday and Tuesday, and when even the county that is the state's extended arm, says that there is a real crisis in child protection, that prevention is completely absent, and that you have to do something in the first-line service, there must be a signal to the Council of State that something really needs to be done. When does the Council of State bring about the measures he thinks should work to ensure that we get a child protection up and running?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e357	In the last few months, we have both clearly prioritised more municipal child protection posts in the state budget and improved supervision by transferring the top authority for this to the state health authorities, which are some examples of what we are already doing. We're going to start with a change in the law related to requiring a police record on child protection. There are a number of initiatives taken and taken. So this government is acting on child protection. The challenges of child protection have proved to be even greater than the efforts that have been put down over several years, from several governments. The effort of the red-green government has been greatest. We've got most new hands in child protection, and then I say we need more. If the representative listens, she hears a government council that is passionate about getting it to. Still, it's not always like looking at things before you do something, it's stupid, even though the representative Horne obviously means it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e364	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e368	Governments have a great need to demonstrate their commitment, and I believe the Council of State does. Governments are busy not only by gripping but by taking proper action. The problem is that the opposition and child protection now actually need to know what the grip it is the Council of State intends to take. Governments refer to both the resource situation and structural challenges. Now the Council of State and the Red-Green majority have announced that they will not provide support for a stepping-up plan for child protection when voting in the hall tomorrow. Then I can give the Council of State a simple proposal for a structural approach that will remedy the situation in the field of child protection. Today we lack foster homes for children's protection – so children need a home, but we don't have a home to give them. Non-profit organisations report that they can help Bufetat to provide foster homes. Buffetate notifies that they have the lead to prioritize their own work in this respect and shall not use NPISHs. What does the Council of State want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e375	It's very important to recruit more foster homes. There's a great need for that. It's a desire to turn more of the efforts in child protection from home to foster home because we think it's good for many children. Especially in the big cities, there's a lack of foster homes compared to the number we need. That's why we now have campaigns directed by Bufetat to recruit more. We also work systematically to strengthen the rights of foster parents, for example. through the standard contracts they will now receive, which will mean a completely different right situation. We work to ensure better follow-up of foster parents, so that they can get advice, guidance and support more easily. In the case of several measures that can ensure that we get more foster homes, I am open to everyone, and I like to look at it. We're going to turn rocks to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e384	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e387	There has been a broad consensus on most major reforms in the area of child protection, and so can the Council of State. What has shaped this government is that a job – which was a great ideological struggle – was first started against everything that is private, and that was what was the main thing for the fight in relation to child protection. The left has been very concerned about, is that we have to move power down the system. We have to get the case handlers who actually see the children in their eyes, to sit with the power to decide what the children should have of help. This has been the subject of pilot projects, for example: in Trondheim, as the government put an end to, sail if it worked very well. What I want is an insurance for when it comes to what to do — while the Council of State is now investigating in the fourth year — is to start a reform of shifting power down — power down to those who see the children in their eyes, power to those who are going to figure out what solutions are for the children, and not to make a red tape reform where bureaucracy is at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e398	We're not investigating in the fourth year. Let's get investigations started. This is because the reform launched under Bondevik II has now been working for enough years to enable such an evaluation to be carried out. It is now possible to see what about the reform that has not worked well enough, and what has worked well and has worked well according to purpose. So this is the right time to do it. I said in Stortinget last week – I would like to repeat it today – that I am going into that process without any prior attitude as to how this will end. I think we need to be willing to make significant structural changes if necessary. One important task is to ensure that interaction between the second line and the first line is improved, that there is no duplication of effort and that too many conflicts are avoided. Then the perspectives are drawn up by the representative, important. When it comes to private and public matters, I believe that making sure that children's protection does not have to change institutions many times because of square tendering rules is an important issue. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e407	We move on to the next main question, from the representative Dagfinn Høybräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e410	The Minister for Children and Gender Equality can take a break, because my question goes to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I have a question for the Minister of Industry in his capacity as the owner of Statkraft. So it's a question of great principle importance. For 88 years, the regional power company now called Troms Kraft has rented the fall rights in Bardufossen. This has been a source of significant regional expansion. You can say in many ways that Tromsø City is developed on the basis of these resources. Today, Troms Kraft is one of the largest and most important actors in the country’s economic development. On 1 April, this lease expires, and Statekraft here in Oslo has demanded the foot back and has notified a legal case in that context. This is, as far as I know, the first time in history that the state, in this case through State power, makes a claim against a public owner. I don't think that's ever happened in history before. It is also alarming that one has not been willing to enter into a dialogue to resolve this. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister of Industry has intended to address this matter, whether he can help the parties to come together, so as to avoid the fact that public operators are dwindling together in legal proceedings, and that a solution can be found to the effect that this significant source of nutrient development in the north remains in the Nordic hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e423	Our hydropower is not just an eternal resource, but a foundation for both value creation and industry. I am pleased that the underlying issue of the Highbridge is that the community should have control of these resources. There's a dividing line going sharp through this hall about this. I'm always happy when the Christian People's Party lands on the right side of that line. So it is that the state has given a long-term lease to Trom's power of the fall rights in Bardufossen. That agreement expires this year and the question is how to continue it or whether to continue it. As the representative of the High Council knows, the State cannot give away the values of the Community. Although the purpose is good and Tromsø and Troms County spend the money on sensible things, it must be done on reasonable terms. I have already met Tromsø Kraft, Tromsø Municipality, Tromsø County Municipality and State Power on the matter, and I have invited all these parties to a meeting on Friday to see if the matter can be resolved in amicably. For me, it would be very unfortunate if different levels of government were to spend millions of dollars on lawyers' fees and time and resources in a courtroom to find a solution. I hope we find a reasonable solution in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e434	Let me first thank the Council of State for the answer and say that I am pleased that he now grasps this, that he calls the parties together. Troms Kraft has been waiting for feedback on his proposals for solutions for 15 months and is experiencing the treatment they have received from Grand Brother Statkraft here in Oslo, as quite arrogant. I have a great deal of understanding for that. It is true that the Christian People's Party is always concerned with safeguarding the social interests in such contexts. We're also worried about a line that Statkraft here seems to have switched on, that we use old contracts where, at the time, in 1922 or 1950, we didn't distinguish between the state as the concession authority and the state that owns, to run a race against other public owners in the power industry. My question is whether to demand a fall-back so to speak from state-owned power companies is a new line that the state will run.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e443	No, it's not a new line. When Statkraft got these rights transferred in 1992, this rental was even cause for concern. So state power and state agreed on how this was. I think that the juxtaposition of the question, although it might be disputed in Troms, is quite clear. At the same time, state power has said that they have no overall strategic interest in having to get these rights back. You can live with the fact that Troms Kraft still has this in his portfolio. It boils to the seventh and last down to what kind of consideration the Power of Trom is going to pay. I think I would have got quite thorough rounds in this room if we had started to give away the assets of the state companies far below what they were worth, at least without a big decision. We have no authority to do that, either in the Ministry of Industry or in the State. So we have to find a solution that's reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e454	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e458	The fact that water resources are to be in public ownership supports the Christian People's Party. We have a lot of good municipal energy companies. They're a great energy company. They are important in local business. The surplus has gone to put a lot of asphalt and develop the schools around the municipalities throughout the country. In the same way, we have many regional energy companies that have an important role in society. After hearing the Council of State's reply to the representative, Højbräten, I would like to raise a fundamental question to the Council of State: Is it so to understand that the government's policy of repatriation of water resources really means repatriation to state companies and not to public companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e465	There is nothing that could prevent the municipality of Tromsø from once choosing to privatize its company, selling it to private interests, as the bourgeois majority in my municipality, Trondheim, sold Trondheim Energiverk with billion losses in capitalization for Trondheim's inhabitants as a result. The State cannot begin to give away its values to companies regardless of whether they are municipal owned or privately owned. If the State is going to spend money, it has to take another decision in this room. I am absolutely sure that if the Government, the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Government began to give away such values, without a decision from the Stortinget, not only the opposition had fallen, but then I think both the Riksrevision and others had been involved in the matter. We must be tidy with the properties of the state, although the purpose in this case is very good, and Tromsø and Troms County definitely use the surplus of very good things and well-being in their regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e472	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e475	It is true, as the Council of State here says, that this is not a public versus private case law issue, the rights of repatriation. This is about the state that owns versus Trom's power and the owners of that company. This is a matter of public ownership and the way the state uses its ownership. I think it's a little special, because this is a normal procedure that the government in Statkraft was supposed to handle, and not the Council of State. The Governing Council is the top owner, but you choose your Governing Board representatives to perform the normal operation. This matter also falls within the competence of the Board of Directors. I think it is a little strange that the Council of State intervenes in this matter at this point, because it gives itself a signal to the board that they have not necessarily handled this in a good way. Is this a way that the Council of State intends to work on in the future, that before the Governing Council has done its job, the Council of State intervenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e482	I think one of the tasks of a government council is to try to find practical, good solutions to conflicts. I have had a meeting with Statkraft just to be briefed on the matter, because this is a very intense political matter, an important matter for the citizens both in Tromsø and in Tromsø and for that company. Government management fully agreed that it was a reasonable procedure to get all the parties around a table and see if it was possible to find a practical solution and a reasonable way out of the conflict. I think it's very stupid to spend millions of dollars on lawyers' fees from public authorities, whether it's municipality, county municipality or state. Rather, we should spend that money on school, child protection and care for the elderly and the things we are responsible for, and rather we find practical solutions between ourselves that are reasonable. I think it is important that these fall rights are in public ownership, and then we find out what kind of price Troms and Tromsø might pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e489	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e492	I am happy to hear that the Council of State has not intended to give away money without coming to Stortinget – that is excellent. Then I must say that this carries a little bit of unyielding ownership with a government council that intervenes in this. Maybe it would be better if we had an independent complaint body, because it's right, as the previous speaker says, that it can form a precedent. But to something quite different about this: Is this a matter that can put the Council of State on the idea that State power has become too big, too dominant, and that we should look at its position ownershipally and also in relation to the competition and the inhibition of competition that it can lead to in the power industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e501	There have been situations in which State power from the market authorities has been found to be too large. The acute situation a few years ago arose when the bourgeois majority in Trondheim found that they wanted to sell Trondheim Energiverk, privatize it or sell it out of the municipality's property. So far, Trondheim's inhabitants have lost – I think – 5 billion kroner, so it was a tragic decision for Trondheim. But luckily, it was State power that bought it, and it could be said that the community of Norway got the advantage that Trondheim lost thanks to the bourgeois majority there. So the situation that Statkraft can get too big is there all the time. That's why, in my view, we need the regional power companies. We need more people involved in power generation. Therefore, Statkraft has also signaled that these fall rights may be retained by Trom's power, but one must find a reasonable price for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e506	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e509	I would like to continue with the Minister of Industry. The government is now going to spend another half a billion dollars of taxpayers' money on the loss-absorbing SAS, and this happens after we did the exact same exercise last year, assuming that the company was going to undergo cost reductions, that they were going to reduce the debt. Nothing of this has been done, and you have to come back to the government and ask for more money. Not enough – we also feel that even now, in this case, there is uncertainty about the prerequisite for the year’s issue can be implemented. Consideration is being given to whether employees are able to agree to the cost reductions, and not least whether the refinancing of the debt securities can be carried out. Not later than half an hour ago, the last proposition from the Government was presented about changing the terms of the refinancing of the debt by switching to a so-called convertible loan, which means that you're getting out, in the long term, ownership. This testifies to, I think, a small overview and management of ownership by the Government. Is the State Council satisfied with the way in which the ownership of this company has been managed in the last few years, and in particular during the issue that is now taking place, and where does the Economic and Social Committee in the United Kingdom have two working days to deal with the last proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e518	I don't think SAS's problem is primarily ownership. I think SAS’s problem is the failure of air traffic that all airlines have experienced, while still struggling with the diseases that companies that had close to monopoly situations in the past have contracted. SAS has already implemented a very comprehensive restructuring programme, quite large savings already in progress, but many and large savings programmes remain. When SAS came to us and signaled that new capital was needed relatively shortly after the previous issue, our message was very clear that some measures had to be put in place before it became relevant for us to enter with new capital. One of the things we said very clearly about was that the entire SAS organisation must be involved in the conversion programmes. There has been a situation in SAS where these shifts may have been somewhat unevenly distributed among different occupational groups, and where, we should say, the sense of responsibility has been disparate between different employee groups. We said there had to be another half a billion dollars in savings to make this something we believe in. That's what SAS has now done. All the trade unions concerned have been involved in solutions that mean that half a billion kroner will be saved. The rest of the savings programme is going as planned. We believe that this can give rise to a competitive situation where SAS can survive in the long term. But it's an incredibly cool situation. All the big airlines are struggling. Some international companies have even gone overboard. There are many thousands of jobs in this area, as well as important air services in many places in Norway. So we're going to do everything we can as an owner to contribute to a good transition and a good situation for SAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e528	Back to the exercise of ownership in relation to the last propositions: it is a fact that the Council of State called on the trade unions to decide whether the cost reduction could be carried out. It was also a problem. But with regard to the principle of maintaining the size of ownership, it has been left in the last proposition that has come, where one says yes to possibly irritating this by having a convertible bond loan. What is the reason why, at an earlier date, three, four, five weeks ago, the Council of State did not invite competent people from SAS to its office to find out what problems could be caused by this funding? You knew about the bad rating. Shouldn't the government have asked that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e535	Refinancing of the debt securities that expire beyond spring was part of the issue that we also had at issue. We had to be sure that these were allowed to refinance before we could go in with capital. Now when it becomes a convertible loan instead of a bond loan, I don't see the dramatic difference in it. If the loan was to be converted into share capital when it expires in 2015, it must be because those who have granted this loan see that SAS is such a powerful and competitive company that it is more profitable to get dividends than to get back the money you have given in loans. In that case, it must mean that SAS has been successful. So I guess we should really look at that situation pretty lightly. We believe that it is important that SAS can use the different instruments. Now, if the ownership were to be diluted, it's not that dramatic. The most important thing now is that we get the company on the right keel, take care of the jobs, take care of the air routes and take care of the values of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e544	There are two follow-up questions – first Frank Bakke Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e547	First, I want to thank the Council of State for having so brilliantly painted a picture of a process characterized by a little poor and unyielding political craft. One important part of the SAS group for Norway is the airline Ontøe. It is a small airline with a rather unique competence on short-haul flights under Norwegian conditions. In the fight to rescue SAS, Onøe has experienced that many of the special environments of competence have been built up and replaced by environments available in Sweden and Denmark. In the right, we are concerned that poor business practices and poor political crafts can go beyond the operation and existence of this particular company and for Norway, which is of particular importance. Do the Councils share our concern? What are the political considerations in this difficult situation in which everyone understands that the SAS group is in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e556	Let me first say that I don't recognize the description of "uncorrected" process. SAS is going through a very tough transition, and many thousands of employees take heavy loads every day to try to save their company. The management is working hard to make changes and restructuring that allow them to save money. Then you see that the drop in air traffic is going to be greater than you expected. Then you have to go to the owners to ask for more capital. This is happening all the time in many companies. SAS has a combination of private and public owners. Then we say that first we have to have an analysis. We go to consultants who give us an analysis of what's going on to get the company to go, whether it's right to go into an issue. With given assumptions, they say it's recommended. Then we get these assumptions in place, and then we go into an issue. It's as clean as you can get. We are busy working in Norway. We're busy with Onderøe. We're busy with the flight routes in Norway. We are concerned about the employees in Norway. If that day comes when SAS can't be continued, we have to take good care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e565	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e568	This matter is once again, as in the previous round of questions, about public ownership and the way we handle it. Well a year ago, when we last went into SAS with capital, they said that now we hope it's the last time. This time, when we go in with a new 575 million. kr, if Stortinget takes a decision about the next week, they say that now we expect and hope that this will be the last time. And then this case, which we're going to start dealing with in the nutrition committee tomorrow, is going to have to have $2 billion for a convertible loan. We could read in the media yesterday that SAS is now doomed to pay its competitor Norwegian 175 million. kr in the case of industrial espionage. Furthermore, we still get different answers as to whether we want to sell ourselves down, or we don't want to sell ourselves down. My question to the Council of State is: Where does the pain limit for the state go for how much capital we are going to enter this company with? It's not right, as the Council of State says, that all companies are going badly. Norwegian is actually going with profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e577	I think we have to manage the state's ownership as professionally and properly as the private owners manage their companies. To give a number on where the pain limit goes for how much capital we can deposit, I think will be a completely meaningless exercise. We have to follow the savings programmes that SAS has. We have to follow the capital situation of SAS. Then we have to evaluate the situation continuously. In this case, I find that the private owners of SAS have found out that the savings programme, the refinancing of debt securities and the programmes that the employees are now going through to save money, suggest that the private owners also go into SAS with their private money. So not only the public, i.e. the state of Norway, Sweden and Denmark, but also private owners come to the same conclusion. This is also about many thousands of jobs, and it is all of a sudden just to sell out when the share is at the bottom, I don't think it's just irresponsible to the employees, but it's also incredibly bad economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e584	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e587	My question goes to the Council of State Lighthouses. In recent days, the NRC has had several reports referring to poverty among young immigrants in Oslo. There is, of course, a worrying development that we see, pointing towards the fact that a social sub-class is unfortunately developing among people with a migrant background. But this is unfortunately nothing new either. Already during the election campaign last year, the Central Statistical Bureau, the SSB, came up with a rather eye-catching report, which deals with the demography and living conditions of immigrants in the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand, and which looks at some issues of poverty, but also reveals some of the issues and what this really is about. This, of course, is related to the lack of integration – and I am talking first and foremost about economic integration, and it is clearly seen as this statistics show that while 50 pst. by ethnic Northmen are economically self-employed, the corresponding figures for non-Western immigrants are 33 pst. The participation of non-Western immigrants is very low. While ethnic Northmen have an employment rate of 72.5 p.m., some immigrant groups are recorded to be far below 35.7 p.m. participation in employment. These are the real challenges, and then this poverty that is propagating further. As soon as this became a topic, Fafo was right away and said that we have to do something about this, we have to increase public benefits. My question to the Council of State will thus be as follows: How will you meet this problem – will you do so by further increasing public benefits that come to immigrants, or perhaps you want to make stricter demands on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e600	It is a particularly important challenge that so many of the poor children in Norway have a minority background. This means that we both need to continue forcefully the general work we have to get rid of child poverty, and we need to look at what kind of special measures can help this group. I am particularly concerned about getting women with a minority background into work. It is a crucial reason for the numbers we have for child poverty, that so many households with a migrant background are one-income households. Some immigrant groups are clearly overrepresented. This means that one of the most important things we can do — not only in inclusion and integration policy, but also in the fight against poverty — is to strengthen efforts to get women to work. I think that is about qualification through e.g. the introduction programme, through Norwegian training and by spending money on enabling people to help themselves. It is a particular challenge that the Progress Party, which maintains a high profile in this debate, is opposed to most of these measures, for example: efforts to support immigrants to learn Norwegian. Then we have to look at the device of performance. I think it is necessary to look at some of our public benefits and the size and arrangements of the poverty problem. That's also why the government has put down the Brochmann committee, among other things, to look at how our welfare model works in relation to this. We know, for example. that cash support is a particular problem in relation to integration, because it keeps many of these women we have to get into work at home. So I would like to challenge the representative to be with me and think again about whether it is appropriate to maintain the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e610	What I think is the challenge here is that we have designed a system – called the Norwegian welfare state – that I would argue is problematic when we come to pursuing an integration policy. In fact, integrating is about making a significant self-esteem. It's not an easy process; it's something you have to do yourself to achieve. I believe that the problem we are experiencing today is that too many immigrants become economic benefits, the public welfare system, a resting-room that makes you unresponsive and do what you do, for example. sees immigrants in the United States, where economic integration is much faster, because economic motivation is much more present — there is almost an overall absence of public benefits. Does the Council of State see this issue? I'd like to challenge him on a little bit more ideology here. There is a problem embedded in social democracy that means that the capacity for integration is not as high as it is in highly capitalist societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e617	We have not designed a system called the Norwegian welfare state. People have been fighting for the Norwegian welfare state for a hundred years, it's created to meet people's needs. And it's very interesting that the Progress Party is now arguing for a cleaner capitalist system, when they've used the last election campaigns to spend money in proposals for new welfare schemes. But now leave it. The representative's premiss is wrong. Norway does not succeed in integration worse than other countries; on the contrary, many figures show that Norway is doing better. It may be particularly interesting to compare with the country that is now very often highlighted as a model by the Progress Party, namely Denmark. They have far worse numbers in terms of e.g. poverty among immigrant children, as is the case with Norway. So we succeed better than the Danes in that area. What we also see is that with increased living time there are more jobs, and more people are well integrated into Norwegian society. It shows that integration works. Then we have to put more measures in place early. More rapid residence and more commitment to language training and qualification will make more successful even earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e626	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e629	The main questioner goes into, among other things. the labour market in the United States versus Norway. We know that in the United States, there is a much larger proportion of Somalis in the world of work than in Norway. In Norway, we have to struggle to get the workers into the labour market. We have also been presented with several studies showing that the Norwegian labour market is becoming relatively crowded, it is becoming too narrow, and it is also seen that the labour market we have created has led to the death of disabled people, and not least immigrants, or at least to major difficulties in getting into the labour market. Will the Council of State take the necessary talks and initiatives to the Minister of Labour to look at the possibilities of a more flexible working life that opens up for more people with migrant backgrounds to enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e638	The Norwegian model with a harsh welfare state and a regulated working life with strong rights for workers is an advantage for integration policy. This is because most people who come here to this country start their stay in Norway quite far below the Norwegian community table. Then arrangements that ensure that they also have rights and are included are important. If we compare it to the United States, there's no point in saying that the Norwegian model is worse for integration. However, where we have a specific challenge, it is not linked to the welfare state but to the fact that we have a labour market in development that needs fewer and fewer unskilled people. They don't have that problem in the United States. There they don't have the kind of welfare schemes that we have, and it's a big market for unskilled nannys and others who can work for cheap money. We don't want that model in Norway. That's why we have to make sure that everyone who comes here gets the opportunity of language training, qualification and education, so that they get a place in the labour market we're going to have in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e645	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e648	I fully agree with Councillor Lysbakken that the most important thing to get children out of the poverty trap is that the mothers and the whole family are working. In Oslo, a number of things are done to get this done. There are many positive measures. One of the interventions is at the Family Centre in Grünerløkka, which visits women who have received social assistance for a long time and offers a one-year course in Norwegian, inclusion and understanding of languages. In order to make everyone meet, the Municipality of Oslo has wanted to reduce social assistance in the event of a lack of attendance. Activity obligations are, of course, an important and good principle. Then the municipality feels that the county council is testing the community's social welfare cuts. In other words, the state undermines the municipality's desire to use both whip and carrot. Will the Council of State Lysbakken clean up this situation and ensure that local authorities have the means to attend courses that enable immigrant women to participate in the labour market and lift their children out of poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e653	The specific matter has not been within my table, so I have a little difficulty commenting on it on the kick, but I would like to look at it. We have started a work for, among other things, to look at how to ensure that Norwegian welfare and social security systems function positively, and not negatively, in relation to integration, and then there are some issues. We also know who is concerned with child welfare in the absence of attendance at school, for example, which I think is worth discussing. At the same time, it is important to say that some basic benefits are to be enjoyed by all in this society. These include: on the consideration of the best interests of children, which are not to be penalised financially for failure of parents to follow up. Here there are some difficult balances to go. I'm concerned that we, for example. to pursue more out-of-office activities towards these women, because we need them not only to have formal rights in this society, but to make the rights real, and to make an effort to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e660	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e663	First, I have to say that I'm glad that the Council of State makes it clear that we actually like many things with integration, and that we actually also have a very high level of participation among immigrants. That's what I think is important. But what I'm worried about is that there are a lot of people that we know we can never get into work. There are people who need help in other ways. Therefore, I must say that I am disappointed that the Government does not meet the Christian People's Party and want a national fight against poverty. Especially when we talk about poor children and poor immigrants, we know that if we are to succeed in integration, we must be able to get them out to the common arenas. There we have, for example. a proposal containing measures to help them participate in leisure events, sports venues, etc. Childcare is one of the most important measures. Today, when social assistance is to be calculated, it is deducted because of child welfare, and all families with children get child welfare. When should the Government correct that bias, so that when you get child welfare, there should be no deduction of social assistance rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e668	I am pleased that the representative shares my starting point, and of course I believe that it is important that more people do so. But if we never get the positive things going on in integration in Norway, we're not going to be able to do anything with the negatives either. I am convinced that by creating the confidence that lies in recognising all the progress we are making, including in living conditions, the immigrant population – it is clear on many living conditions indices – is better off, and is better off today than 10 years ago. So it's very important that we have a special focus on the groups that we see are overrepresented in negative statistics. Child poverty, and also some other types of poverty, are among these. That is why this must be part of the important work we are going to do in combating poverty. We will make a great effort – continue the great effort made by the Government to combat poverty, among other things. in the follow-up to the settings of the Distribution Committee. It's a work that becomes important, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e678	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e684	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him. Question 2, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is suffering from a disease. Question 9, from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 10, from Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e702	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e705	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘On Saturday 6 March, in Romsdal’s Budstikke, there are allegations that employees at the Prime Minister’s office contacted Chief Executive Officer Per Sævik in Health Mid-Norway RHF during 2005–2006 regarding the work of a possible joint hospital in the Hjelset. Is it true that the Prime Minister's office contacted Per Sævik in Health Mid-Norway RHF on this matter?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e719	The Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible for the ownership management of health businesses. It is therefore the Ministry of Health and Health that has the formal contact with health businesses. On the basis of the question raised by the representative Nørve, my department made telephone contact on 12 March with the former Managing Director of Health Mid-Norway RHF, Paul Hallandsvik, and former Chairman of Health Mid-Norway RHF, Per Sævik. Neither Per Sævik nor Paul Hallandsvik could recall that they had received any telephones or had otherwise been contacted by the Prime Minister's office regarding the work of a common hospital in the Heelmet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e728	The Prime Minister's office writes by e-mail to the Minister for Health and Health that the Ministry of Health is the Ministry of Health and Welfare that manages the health businesses and not the Prime Minister's office. The Prime Minister stated in the Question Time of 21 October 2009 that he believes it is very important in health policy that we try to be neat about how we govern, that health services are going very wrong if we are to point to individual institutions in this Chamber and help to determine which groups and institutions are going to get agreements or appropriations, and that this kind of policy will actually weaken the overall health supply. I'm recording the response from the Council of State. However, claims have now been made that a telephone call was made from the Prime Minister's office to Governor Sævik in 2006, where Health Mid-Norway was asked to stop the plans for a common hospital for Health Nordmøre and Romsdal on the Heelset. It is therefore very important to find out whether there are staff at the Prime Minister’s office who have made such a request. I hear the answer from the Council of State, but there has been a lot of uncertainty and a lot of promises that have been broken, both by state councils and by prime minister in this matter, concerning the construction of new Molde hospitals. Does that mean that this is a practice that you want to continue in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e737	Now, even if something is in the paper, you don't always have to believe it. I also believe that the representative Mr Nørve has experienced this. On the basis of this question, we have also been in contact with all political staff at the Prime Minister's office at the time in question, but no one can recall that they have been in contact with neither the Chairman nor the Director. I must therefore just maintain what has been said, that there has been no contact here. It is, as I said, the Ministry of Health and Health that has this responsibility and that has contact with health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e744	Again to this question time, the Prime Minister was concerned that appropriations for individual institutions were not political. However, this did not prevent the government parties and two former government councils from promising in the 2005 election campaign that they would build a new hospital in Molde. Nor did it prevent Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg from promising in the 2007 election campaign that new Molde hospitals would be built as soon as the health company was in financial balance and that it would be built from 2012. Construction decisions have been postponed several times. The option of a common hospital, which the Prime Minister's office allegedly ceased in 2006, is new and the frustration among residents and employees in Health Nordmøre and Romsdal is very great. After it's been used over 70 million. kr for investigation and planning, there is now strong doubt about the process further, and it is likely to put it back several years. Does the Council of State feel that the Prime Minister's office and the Government have behaved neatly in this matter, and that it is in line with their own principle? And can the Council of State guarantee that the process now under way will not lead to a deterioration in the region's overall supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e755	It is precisely because of the region's overall offers and the needs of its inhabitants that we are now going to a new round at the hospital. You don't go a new round on all points, but you ask for, among other things, One common hospital in the region is being investigated, because if you look at the population, it would be ideal to have one hospital. Now it is not always possible in Norway to have just one hospital, but here it is also about how to manage to establish a good and strong professional environment, which is going to be our main challenge in the future. All political parties, no matter how much money you spend on health care, have to assume that establishing the good trade unions is for the benefit of the citizens. That's why we have to do a thorough job here. That there have been investigations, there is no reason not to go an extra turn. I have said explicitly about the work we are doing now, that we have not made a decision in advance, but we are going to do it as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e770	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e776	«At the end of November and beginning of December 1972, an intense submarine hunt took place in Sognefjorden. What happened, and where the submarine came from, has never been published. How will the Council of State now, almost 40 years later, contribute to the ultimate realization of the truth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e783	The case of the search for a submarine in Sognefjorden in November 1972 has again been updated. Both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee in Stortinget were briefed on the matter as early as 28 November 1972. Furthermore, the then Minister of Defense, Johan Kleppe, replied in the weeks following the incident to questions from several staging representatives about different conditions related to the event. The Ministry of Defence referred to the current legislation for dealing with this type of situation and to the fact that the defence had handled the situation in a good way. The ministry further stressed that the government had been quickly informed of a possible foreign submarine, and that cooperation with military authorities had worked very well. It was also shown that, on the basis of the information collected, it was considered that it had been confirmed that there had been a foreign submarine in Sognefjord for the period in question. However, the nationality of the submarine was not established. This information also provided the Ministry of Defence with various media. There has been no new evidence in the matter since 1972-1973. Further information on the event in Sognefjord was upgraded and made available to the public in October 2006. The degraded material confirmed previous conclusions. As far as I can see, therefore, relevant information on the matter has been provided in the public space. However, the Ministry of Defence will now review the still graduated material with a view to further upgrading. It is a challenge to monitor our long-range coasts and take care of Norwegian interests in neighbouring waters. Therefore, observations from the coastal population are very important in order to carry out this task in the best possible way. In cases where Norwegian sovereignty is violated or where this is suspected, the Defence will always respond with appropriate instruments, if necessary with power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e794	I thank you for the answer, but my question is on the upgrading of the latest documents that are kept secret. In the past, the Minister of Defence has been aware of the importance of a public debate on the defence, on the publication of defence documents, and this must well be the example of the crown. I can't see from my point of view that there is any pressing reason to continue to keep secret documents almost 40 years old. Both technology and operating patterns have changed, and the relationship with our allies and any owner of the submarine, e.g. The Soviet Union, too, will have minimal consequences now. I believe that NRK Sogn and Fjordane, who have asked for access to the documents, need to get there as soon as possible, and that the defence must move forward at a much faster pace than what has been done in the past, in order to have these documents upgraded. The public has an interest in and a right to know what actually happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e803	I share that view that openness is also important in defence. This is a historically interesting case, and it is true that there is still material on this matter that has not yet been upgraded. This material includes, inter alia: internal assessments between the ministries and for the government, safety assessments and operational conditions of the Defence. Nevertheless, I would like to assure the applicant that the department will now assess this material for the purpose of degrading.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e808	It's positive. I also imagine that internal assessments, including internal assessments of security policy, which are now almost 40 years old, are outdated, and therefore the pattern of operations that had been brought back to 1972-73, are of such a nature that it will have no impact on either the security of the state or, for that matter, on the political environment in Norway today. But what we have to put in place is a truth -- final truth -- about what actually happened. It is people who have their credibility put at risk and under pressure, because they were not believed in what they saw in 1972. There has also been a wide range of rumours that can now be categorized if the most recent documents are actually made available to the public. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence to promise that she will do her utmost to ensure that these documents are upgraded as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e817	The initiative to the Ministry has already been taken with a view to practicing the rules on more publicity adopted in this Chamber. As I said, I share that view that openness is important not only to get facts out, but also to help stop any rumors. These documents will only be relevant to withholding information from whether there should be anything in the Norwegian law that warrants it. However, in view of the fact that this is a 38-year-old case, I share the questioner's view that this should not be a major obstacle to the publication of the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e825	‘Less than a year ago, the Government presented St.meld. No 33 for 2008-2009 ‘Culture to defend’ About the cultural activities in the Defence up to 2020, where there was considerable mention of the importance of, inter alia, the defence music. The business was stepped up, and Stortinget supported this. Now the message comes that the five corps get a cut in the budgets of up to 50 pst. because of the very strenuous economy of Defence, and that this will affect all public activity. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the decision of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e832	The music of defence plays an important social role as a cultural institution. So the government has boosted the music by 21.5 million. kr in the last four years, so that in 2010 – i.e. this year – a total of 124.2 million has been allocated. However, for the 2009 budget year, the music has spent more money than they were allocated by the Defence Agency and has had a higher level of ambition than it was on the basis of. It is not correct that the allocation of defence music has been reduced by up to 50 pst. this year, as the representative Eriksen Soreide claims. The reduction from 2009 to 2010 is compensated by the fact that the Department of Culture and Tradition of Defence covers the cost of four years of defence music. I am concerned that the economy of Defence is managed in a good and sustainable way. It is therefore essential that the activity be kept within the limits of the appropriations available to the establishment. As a result of the budget exceedances in the 2009 music of the Defence, the Defence is working with measures to ensure that the level of activity is consistent with the appropriations allocated to the music. In addition, and in line with normal procedures, it is also considered how to cover the additional consumption of defence music in 2009 this year. The Chief of Defence is in charge of this process and is in the process of identifying the measures involved. In this work I have given the lead that there will be no reductions in the manning of the musical orpses. Given that defence music spent more money than they were allocated, the activity will, of course, be somewhat reduced compared to 2009. In order to ensure sustainable financial management, it is necessary to take measures to adapt the level of ambition of defence music to the agreed framework. Finally, let me stress that the music of Defence is being developed in line with the intention of St.meld. No 33 for 2008-2009 on the cultural activities of the Defence. I have full confidence that the Chief of Defense will implement the necessary measures to deal with the music's additional consumption last year in line with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e841	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but she was probably injured to say that I thought the defence music had got a cut of 50 p.m. in 2009. I didn't say that. I am asking the question in the light of the concerns we receive for the financial year 2010, where there is a decrease of approx. 50 pst. In St.meld. No 33 it says to continue to invest in public-oriented activities, to strengthen the artistic expression and repertoire of the corps, including a gradual escalation in particular of the crew of the smallest corps. What we're seeing now is that it's not money for a single audience-oriented activity after the summer. We're going to have corps that can't afford to practice. They keep their employment, but they can't afford to practice and train being a corps. We know how important the corps are for the relationship between defence and civil society. That is the question of what the Minister of Defence will do to ensure that it becomes public-oriented activity and concerts even after the summer of 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e848	If I heard the questioner correctly, it was pointed out that there were five corps that could be cut in the budgets of up to 50 p.m., and it was important for me to stress that it is not correct that the appropriations for the defence music have been reduced by up to 50 p.m., so it could be possible to misunderstand that sentence in the questioner's question. But then to the activity. As I have already mentioned, the defence continues to identify measures to restore the balance between the level of ambition and the budgetary framework. Therefore, I cannot provide a concrete estimate of the scope at this stage, but possible measures can be the conversion of activity by reducing travel activities and by making better use of the fixed exercise and concert facilities. However, this must also be considered in full, together with other measures, and measures are being taken to minimise the impact of the music on the main audience-oriented productions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e855	I think it's going to be a little special to think that the defense's music has had too high a level of ambition. I don't understand that it's going to be a high level of ambition to be at the same level of ambition as the one contained in the message, which must be natural for a corps, that is, to run public-oriented business. The problem here is that the defense has too poor appropriations, and it also goes beyond the defense's music. The message was a one-time grower that supported the message that was submitted. But the right was the party that warned that due to the general allocation situation in the defense, it was probably also going to hit the defense's music. That's why I think it's a little special to push the defence management and the defense in front of them when they have to argue for the intrusions that have to be made because of the general failure of the defence economy. So what we're seeing now is a significant downscaling of the business that is primarily affecting public activity, and which is thus kicking the legs under the big picture that Stortinget has unanimously joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e862	I'm wondering here, but I guess I'm not going to understand the representative from the Right so we won't be working on ensuring good budgetary control. I think it's very central to the music of Defense, and so that we can make sure that we carry out in a good way the high level of ambition that the defense's music also has as part of the total cultural effort in Defence. Then we have to have a proper balance between this ambition and the resources and how it is operationalized. There we are now working to develop good measures to get this done as quickly as possible, and without having any impact on the level of employment or activities to a greater extent than I have mentioned, we are trying to make the best use of the exercises and activities already planned. But there's no cut in positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e870	‘The new 2010–2013 Road Service Action Programme of the State does not cross the E18 through Bamble priority. Does this mean that the State Council will deprioritise road safety measures on old E18 even if it will take many years before the new road is in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e877	There are several points on E18 through Bamble, but I expect that the question concerns the Åbykreuz, as the representative Hoksrud also addressed in written question No. 80 houses in 2008. In this question reference was made to the requirements of the Telemark E18 Action Group to convert the Åbykriek to level crossings instead of T-crossings. The work of reconstructing this cross to T-crossing, including the downfall of walking and cycling countries, started in 2009 and was completed in 2010. As also former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete informed in the answer to question No. 80, extended to full-channel T-crosses with left swing fields as a good and traffic-proof solution. In the Swedish Road Safety Agency’s action programme, the construction of E18 to the four-field road on the Langangen-Dørdal route was started in 2013. If there is local support for partial toll financing, I am very positive about it. Most likely, the work will start on the Rugtvedt-Dørdal section, where the Åbykreuzt is located. A number of road safety measures have been implemented on the E18 through Bamble lately, and work is ongoing today. So it doesn't match that existing E18 is down-prioritized. However, I do not think it is right to prioritize resources for expensive cross conversions on a route where the four-field solution is so short in time and where the crossings will not be part of the future solution. In addition, I am informed that it may be appropriate to look at simpler measures on some crossings. Here, there is a good cooperation between the municipality of Bamble and the state road system. There is something I might be allowed to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e886	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, even though, to this extent, the wrong cross-state council was concerned. The point is that in the previous period’s action programme, which was also applicable in 2010, 2011 and 2012, the Rønholt Cross was in 2011. It is now removed from the action program. That means that this cross is down-prioritized. I record that the Council of State also says that she does not want, and in fact will consider not to initiate, full action on part of these crosses. I want to challenge the Council of State, because this is a very unfortunate cross. It's a very dangerous cross, and where you actually also drive with schoolchildren and others. In addition, I would like to challenge the Council of State on this with walking and cycling routes along the E18. This is an incredibly dangerous stretch, where, in some periods of the year, more than 1,700 cars run every hour. This poses major challenges for school students and others who travel along the way. I want to challenge the Council of State if she does not want to take them seriously and make sure to get in place a once- and-a-bike path, and get in place the Rønhol Cross.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e895	It is right that in the proposal for an action programme which was put to the ears in May 2009, the conversion of the Rønholt Cross to the T-junction was within the period 2010–2013. So this was one of the actions that was taken out of the action program. It had to do with the total frames of this program. It is probably an emphasis that, although we have significantly strengthened the loopholes here, it is still the case, unfortunately, that in the field of road safety too, we must take action against each other. But otherwise it is that there are answers here to questions, I understand, that tend to do the same – at least on three questions and in a letter to the Progress Party's big group. It is good that there are representatives here who are still engaged in road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e900	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is at least a good thing to find out that there are several intersections that are also very challenging along this path. I also know that in a short time, the Council of State will be invited to join us on a bicycle ride. All the big candidates were there before the last election and drove on a bike on this route, and it was probably a frightening experience for many. I really hope that the Council of State will accept the invitation that is coming, and I'll be happy to ride along with the Council of State, just to see what a challenge it is to be schoolchildren or others and bikes along the E18. It's a dangerous journey, which I want to challenge the Council of States to join, so that we can together get on the path of walking and cycling along that road. Because even if it's changed, even if we get a new E18 in place, there's going to be a lot of traffic along this road. And so here it's not a walking and cycling route on large sections of the distance, which is a very dangerous distance. So I want to challenge the Council of State if she wants to accept that invitation, and I know that the Action Group will be open so that the Council of State itself will be allowed to choose what date she will come, in order to get it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e907	Let me first say that now we've been on two intersections – the Åbykreuzet and the Rønholtkreuz, and then there's two more: the Essakreuzt and the Vissästadkreuz. I see that with the involvement that's local, it might be relevant with a view, but I probably can't promise my calendar right now, and at least not for cycling. What I'm going to promise is that I'm going to visit the area, because I understand that this is important. What I'm very pleased with is the collaboration between the municipality of Bamble and the state road system. I think it might even lead more with me than if I even come along the E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e912	The president saw a little bit of tooth candy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e918	My question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: ‘In the first year of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, work on the new National Transport Plan 2014–2023 has started. The roll-out of the national transport plan is a major effort and not least an important effort to provide Norway with efficient, safe and energy-efficient transport networks throughout the country. What measures has the government taken, and what measures will the government take to ensure the use of experience gained from the previous planning process from environments outside the Directorate-General for Road Transport, from transport users and environments abroad, so that the national transport plan for the period 2014-2023 is improved, developed and renewed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e927	Work on the National Transport Plan 2014–2023 is in fact now well under way. In this work, we will take advantage of the experience and knowledge that exists both in and outside the transport networks and in Avinor. Recordings from e.g. different user and stakeholder organisations will be important in order to create as good a transport plan as possible. Unlike the existing plan, work on the basis of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 will be carried out in two phases. Guideline 1 to the transport modes and Avinor, which are related to the exit phase, was issued in mid-February, while Guideline 2, which is applicable to the scheduled phase, will be given to the etathans and Avinor in March next year. The plan proposal from Etatan and Avinor will be presented in February 2012 and will include: be submitted to the counties and to the metropolitan councils for an opinion. Others who want to express themselves will also be invited to make their views known. On the basis of the work of the National Transport Plan 2014–2023, an in-depth evaluation of the experience gained from the work of the previous plan was carried out. In that work it has also been drawn to secrets from actors outside the state administration. For example, KS has made important contributions to this process. Through a meeting at the Department of Transport and Logistics, we have also heard what important transport users in the business community think is important to consider when working with the next NTP. The Ministry will also, as in the work on the existing plan, carry out a regional series of business meetings. This is important to address the challenges facing business and the solutions that can meet them. In guideline 1, it is added to a wide and inclusive planning process. In addition to the municipal and urban municipalities, other actors are also invited to participate in the work. Etatane and Avinor will, among others. collect own recordings from central user and interest groups and relevant directorates. I am confident that we have set up a process that will provide us with a good basis for further development and further improvement of the national transport plan that we will present to the Stortinget in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e944	Thanks for the answer. In other contexts, there has been a strong focus on the fact that both the planning process and the treatment process to build roads in Norway are very long: 10–12 years for large projects — in many cases significantly longer. In this context, it's important to point out that we spend a good four years rolling a national plan. Within that perspective, can it be speeded up? Do we have to spend four years rolling a plan – a national plan? And in the same perspective: should the state decide more and faster? Should e.g. the route network is planned for more use by the State Regulatory Authority? So finally, is guideline 1, to which the Council of State refers, a framework factor for the agencies, so that they no longer express the need they actually believe to be present?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e951	First to the question in four years. When we look at the plan that is today, I think that with such extensive work, which concerns both road and track, ports and fairways and Avinor, maybe four years is a reasonable period of rolling, given that this is going to end up in a new bigmouth message and be debated in the Stortinget. But what is taking too much time today is the realization of projects. There I think there must be something to pick up on time. There comes the question of state or municipal regulatory power. The best starting point, I'd say, has one where a regulates locally, and therefore there are some to stand behind a project from the first hour. But it's also a time aspect of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e956	Thank you again for your answer. Continued in the time-consumption perspective: we often hear that there is a lack of completed plans, so that the rate of expansion cannot be increased if funding should be improved or the framework extended. Is this considered in the context of the roll-out and preparation of a new national transport plan? What action, if any, is taken to ensure that this is good and better planning? That's the one. The second is: I still miss the signals that you listen to environments outside the usual ones – those that are usually involved in this large and comprehensive planning process. Does the Council of State believe that the trade unions such as the State Road Administration, the National Railway Agency, the NSB, Avinor and the Coastal Agency have nothing to learn from other environments? There is nothing to learn from abroad, for example. for the preparation of the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e965	To have something to learn, the answer is yes. I think that's what all the eaters have. The most concrete example I can come up with in the direction of change when it comes to the work we're going to do is the arrangement of high-speed trains. It is explicitly stated in the mandate that both external actors and international competences should be sought. But besides that, I think of course that these different etats, when they're doing their job, also listen to experiences that are done in other countries. So let's see if we can get ready for the plan. Yes, I have asked myself this same question myself. I think that some of it is due to the fact that the frames may have been both low and extremely low, and that one of them has not spent so much money on plan preparation. There's been a change in the situation. This means that we need to strengthen – and have already strengthened – the level of preparedness, precisely to ensure that missing plans themselves do not become a plug.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e975	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘At the Western Conference on 1 September last year, the Council of State of Liv Signe Navarsete informed that she would undertake an investigation to establish a ferry-free link on the E39 between Aksdal and Bergen. During the Committee's recent visit to Hordaland, the State Road Administration informed that they had still not received a mandate to do so from the Ministry. Is this important work of low priority at the Council of State, or is there any other reason for this to go out in time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e984	A series of concept currency issues, KVU, and external quality assurances, KS1, shall be carried out towards the next national transport plan. Several KVUs have already been initialised. This largely applies to urban areas. The Ministry has for some months now assessed which projects will be carried out in addition to this and where exemptions will be granted from the requirement of KVU and KS1. A fast and efficient E39, the Coastal Road, is important for travellers and businesses along this route. Therefore, like my predecessor, I am busy doing a distribution work, a KVU and a KS1, for a ferry-free connection between Aksdal and Bergen to the next roll of the NTP. In my role as Minister of Transport, I have learned that there are certain formalities that must be followed. I myself am impatient to get this KVU in the order. Halleraker referred to Liv Signe Navarsette. He could also point out to me, because I am impatient to get this KVU to order, and I can today say that in a very short time a letter of assignment will be sent to the Swedish Road Administration about the concept and arrangements to be started. So the formalities aren't exactly in place, but I don't advance too much when I say that E39 Aksdal–Bergen, including Hordfast, should be on this list.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e993	I thank you for your answer. There are few projects that are as well investigated as the E39, the Coastal Path. A major investigation was carried out in 1992–1994, where most of the societal concerns were affected. The case was actually dealt with here in the Stortinget in 1995. Then they made sub-plans for the distance that I'm occupied with here, the Hordfast route. The NHO Hordaland has also provided its report on the mainland link, which they have called Hordfast, and which I have realised they have cooperated with the State Road Administration. They conclude that a fixed connection via the Eikelandsos is the best, not least because it opens up exciting corridors inwards towards Hardanger. Does the Council of State not believe that the Hordfast investigation is very good in many ways and can provide the basis for some shortened investigation work in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1004	I'm happy for the representative Halleraker's commitment here. It's the broad plural that I think stands to get this case out. I have read some of the hearing statements that have been on the agenda in 2008 at the latest, for example. when the county council in Hordaland treats its opinion to NTP. I understand that Hordaland Right might have been a little bit more concerned about the trasé election. And so it could be in the second party, and that's what makes us have to do a thorough round here, both in terms of different trasears and in terms of costs. We'll be able to do that now, and the KVU will be on order soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1011	I thank you again for the answer. I can tell the Council of State that Hordaland Right had a meeting this weekend and has clarified that we support the Hordfast investigation. The coastal route between Stavanger and Bergen is, as the Council of State knows, the main artery of economic activity and coastal population. Here, a million people are struggling with ferry transport as an alternative to fixed road connections. No later than these days, we see what that means, that passenger certificates are downgraded, and people are left on the ferry when the ferry leaves. Special transport is another example. So ferry transport itself is a highly inhibiting mode of transport for the development of a dynamic region. What I want to challenge the Council of State is: can we now expect a real political craft here, real action, or should we leave the bureaucrats with this for years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1022	All first to two themes that were mentioned here, and so I can already report on the power of action. One is improvements to the ferry transport itself. There is now a sixth gas journey in the order. It should mainly be used on one section, Arsvågen-Mortavik, but it should also be supplementary on the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg section, which will improve regularity. The second is an order for a prescription for the transport of dangerous goods, which is designed to clear the cows a little better than today. So later on, we'll be able to say something about the total power of action. So it's my ambition to follow the national transport plan to the point and the dot, including a ferry-free coastal route.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1032	‘The media have found that the police STOP group has fined more people for the purchase of sex while the prostitutes themselves have not received the assistance provided by the Stortinget when the law was passed. The left has been concerned that individual measures to get prostitutes out of prostitution and enter into training/work training had to be in place before the law came into force. It doesn't seem to have happened. Does the Council of State believe that the ban on the purchase of sex has not only cleared the streets of visible prostitution, but has also helped the prostitutes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1039	The police, as the representative mentions, have taken seriously the criminalisation of the purchase of sexual services. Both by fineing customers and by other measures, the police in the cities concerned are seeking to use the penal code as an instrument in the fight against trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. The 2009 Annual Report of the Pro Centre refers to the fact that the police on a national basis fined 260 persons for infringement of the ban in 2009, including 109 in Oslo. The figure is high – higher than we expected in the debate on criminalisation, and also in relation to the Swedish experience during the same period, and is probably linked to police enforcement and prioritisation. Let me add that the Oslo Police have stated that efforts should not be assessed solely on the basis of the number of reviews, including: emphasises prevention measures, which are not so simple in statistics. Prostitutes who wish to leave the establishment need assistance. When the law was passed, it was clear that existing measures had to be continued and strengthened. The size of the State budget for 2009 was a project pot of 10 million. Under the Ministry of Justice’s budget for projects/measures which could improve the situation of prostitutes, and help women and men out of prostitution – in addition to the work already done and which actually got a good start, including. under the previous government. Among other things, I mention: The ROSA project and also much of the efforts made by the Pro Centre in Oslo. In 2009, the Ministry of Justice allocated funds to 15 different organisations/authorities after consultation with the departments concerned and after discussion with central organisations in this area. It stressed that priority was given to cooperation actions between different organisations/authorities, that projects could be implemented and implemented as quickly as possible, and that there should be a high quality of the work to be carried out. As expected, due to the volume of some of the projects allocated in part large amounts, it was not possible for all applicants to use all the funds during 2009. The Ministry shall ensure that the funds allocated are either used as intended or are returned for allocation to other projects. Usual reporting requirements apply to all allocations and amounts not used within a reasonable period of time are repayable. No clear conclusions can be drawn after just one year of bans, but there is now a positive, broad and reinforced effort to help people out of prostitution as many as possible. In particular, we see it at the crossroads between non-governmental organisations and several public institutions, Nav and the municipalities. I particularly mention Bergen and Oslo in this field. This is an area of many demanding challenges and the proper use of the important project funds allocated must be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1056	I'm actually seriously worried about this group. You can't accuse the Council of State of not transferring your zeal to the police, because it's pretty big. It's actually so big that we've had headlines in the media, no later than March 11th, that prostitutes are also put on smooth cell. It's referred to a police officer who said, "We know what you're doing." The problem is that it is not illegal to sell, even if it is illegal to buy. And then you put people on smooth cell. We have also seen a number of abuses against prostitutes over the past few weeks, and some professional authorities believe that it can be traced back to the fact that we have now received a law that has been very busy in enforcing, but that one has not been so busy with the prostitutes. Marit Nybakk said in a debate in Stortinget that this should be put in place, and that if there were unused funds around, both the trade committee and the Council of State had to look at this matter as quickly as possible. Isn't the Council of State worried?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1069	I am – and have been for a long time – concerned about especially younger girls coming to Norway, but also Norwegian girls who are part of the traffic that we, among other things, are. Look in our streets. There is every reason to be aware that many of the experiences and needs of these, and also of some younger boys, need to be met with completely different instruments from those of criminal law. And that has been the motive for the Regeringen, among other things. to the grant pot that I referred to in my post instead. It is also the motive for us wanting to continue the good projects that were actually started in the last period of government – all the honor, because it is doing a lot of good work, among other things. in the ROSA project and by the Pro Centret. But I'm so worried that I think we need to have a very intense searchlight on this to make the actions better. So I'm glad to see that the police intervene so resolutely when prostitutes are subjected to abuse, and just prioritized to investigate these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1076	I agree with what the Council of State says that it is important that the police really take on the terrible cases that we have seen. I'm happy about that, too. But we have also experienced that the new law leads to very many of the prostitutes saying that they no longer feel that they have the police involved, precisely because you don't always dare to say from, and that it might be the most serious things we see, and that many of the less serious things don't even come to the police table because you don't feel safe that the police shouldn't be more concerned about taking the customer than protecting the prostitutes. And that very trust relationship is pretty important to be able to help in some of the worst assault cases we might see, which is just going out on this group of women. And there is no small group either; there are still hundreds of women who we know sell sex both in the street and in the internal market. It is important that this group both feel that there are relief measures ready for them, and that the police are actually on their side, and that the danger of getting on smooth cell is not present. So I hope the Minister of Justice will say that it will not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1081	It's hard for me to decide on a single event, as described in the newspapers, but to the extent that it's right, that's not the way we want it to be, let's not doubt it. One of the dilemmas of the Sex Purchases Act was just the dialogue with the police, to get into the difficult human trafficking issues and get reports from the girls and boys who go out, and also those on the internal market. But then it's a prerequisite that the police act as we see it, at least in most of these cases, that efforts are directed against the buyers in terms of the criminal instruments, and that every opportunity is used to mark it clearly, as was done by the police department of the Oslo Police District, Hanne Kristin Rohde, when she was confronted with the rape cases and the rape charges of some prostitutes recently. She went out clearly and said that this is serious crime, these are victims that should be taken very seriously. It's not always that opinion does it. In addition, it is important that civil aid measures have an impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1097	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1103	This question, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1106	‘Norway has a special strict regulatory framework for the allocation of free CO2 allowances to gas power plants. At Kårstø, the gas power plant has been in continuous operation for the last 12 months and produced approx. 3 TWh. This has been loving power in winter. The power plant was allocated 1/3 of the necessary allowances in relation to full production up to 2012, and simple mathematics suggests that the allowance stock is soon exhausted. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the gas power plant is not shut down as a result of specular CO2 costs?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1119	The measure adopted the Norwegian rules on the allocation of allowances free of charge in February 2009. Based on an overall assessment at that time, the normal operating time of the gas power plant on Kårstø was set at an average of 2 500 hours per. year for the 2008-2012 period. The Climate and Pollution Directorate decided on 27 March 2009 to allocate Kårstø to a total of 1,617 340 allowances for the 2008-2012 period. This represents 323,468 allowances per year. years. As a result of a relatively low standard operating time in Norway, the allocation of free allowances to Kårstø is lower than for comparable installations in other European countries. Although Kårstø’s operations would turn out to be higher than that of the Stortinget in 2009, the allowance system does not open up to increase the allocation of free allowances after the allocation decision has been taken by the Climate and Pollution DG. The representative of Solvik-Olsen gives the impression in his question that Kårstø will have to close as soon as the free allowances are exhausted. This is meaningless, because for a rational operator, which I assume is the owner, the operating decision at the gas power plant will not be affected by how many allowances the installation has been allocated free of charge. If operating on Kårstø is not profitable in a situation where the installation is required to purchase allowances on the market, it would also not be rational to operate if the installation was allocated allowances free of charge. The reason is that Kårstø in such a situation will make more money to stop the operation and sell allowances allocated to them free of charge. This shows that it is the allowance price, not the allocation of free allowances, that determines the operating decision on Kårstø. The price of allowances in Norway is the same as in the EU. It is thus misleading to give the impression that Kårstø will have to close down as a result of strange CO2 costs. It is fully possible for the power plant owners to purchase allowances in the market if they so wish. Finally, let me add that it may seem that the Progress Party wants to double-load Norwegian consumers and taxpayers: First, the electricity price rises, as a result of an increase in the quota price. It's a logical, wild decision, of which the Progress Party has also been a part. Only then will consumers pay for more expensive electricity as a result of it and then send an additional gift to the owners of the power plant in the form of a check from the taxpayers. It doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1131	The Council of State is very provoking through its illogical claims about the policy of the Progress Party. It makes no sense to claim that it does not matter to an operator whether you have to buy your allowances on the market or you get them allocated free of charge. One has to realize that if the force of nature has now used up its allowances in a short time, it will cost them at least 150 million. kr per year in order to cover their emissions by allowances, which their competitors in other gas power plants in Europe do not receive. So that means they have to wait until the power prices are the higher to possibly defend operations. From an energy policy perspective – I understand that the Council of State is only concerned with national CO2 emissions – it is madness. This means that one will drain the more water, which is a scarce resource right now, because one does not allow CO2 emissions from Norway, but rather will export the gas to Europe. Then cut out the quasi-logics, and respond to how this will affect the power supply in Norway – if one will not contribute to it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1146	I do not know whether 'quasilogy' is a parliamentary expression. This is not quasi-logic! This is absolute logic: for an allowance holder, the investment decision is not affected in the way Solvik-Olsen says here, because the allowance can be sold if you have a surplus of allowances, and it can be purchased if you have a deficit of allowances. It is in principle irrelevant for an investment decision whether the allocation is free or it costs something, because free allowances can be sold. That is the very purpose – and I believe that the Progress Party too wants – of having a flow of allowances in the market in order to obtain rational, simple and unbureaucratic investment decisions from the actors. Without specialising in the decisions taken on Kårstø, my opinion is that the main question is the price of gas versus the price of electricity – that is what is the main basis for decisions on profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1151	I just think the council here confirms that SV does not have any idea of how business works. One must understand that the award criteria at Norwegian gas plants versus foreign gas plants — versus other energy producers — mean something. When one does not receive free allowances in Norway, but one receives it from the competitors, one cannot say that it gives the same framework conditions for natural power as the foreign gas power plant, because natural power costs 150 million. kr in order to be able to compete in the same market as gas power stations receiving free allowances. If there is a problem for the Council of State that they can sell them, then there are some ultimate demands that allowances that are not used should be returned and not sold on the market. That's a nice way to do it, where you could make sure it was inside the quota grid. The problem here is that with the Government's approach, the profitability of the natural gas power plant will deteriorate, and this will result in the use of more hydropower in the future, which is environmentally friendly. But when a person is struggling to see the gravel in the hydropower plants, he has to use the power he has – and that is for example. Natural gas power plants — to prevent a supply crisis in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1156	The President is uncertain whether ‘no indication’ is a parliamentary expression that should be used in this Chamber. But Solheim State Council will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1159	At least the President can take comfort that I've heard a lot of worse things from Solvik-Olsen before, so I'm not losing the night sleep of this. So it makes perfect sense for an actor to sell allowances to make money if you have too many allowances. So what I now feel is that Solvik-Olsen is adding up – if you want to take seriously what is proposed – is a bureaucratic system in which the state is going to withdraw and issue allowances based on random fluctuations in the market, based on what is currently profitable, on the basis of decision-making or government decisions. Indeed, the main logic of the quota system is to get rational economic decisions within a market framework in a system that is unbureaucratic and flexible and that contributes to the right CO2 decisions – just as the Americans solved their basic pollution problem in the 1980s and 1990s by a parallel system of ‘traded’ emission allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1172	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In Hedland, as in the rest of the country, the number of farms and the number of cover areas cultivated has been greatly reduced. In the course of four years, the number of farms has been reduced by 4,419. Is this a development the Council of State is satisfied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1181	Hedmark is a large and versatile agricultural group, and the development of the county is about as the national average in terms of the number of agricultural holdings, labour consumption and area. It is true that the number of enterprises applying for production grants has been reduced by 4,400 in the last four years, or 8,7 pst. For Hedmark, the reduction was 403 enterprises, or 9.7 pst. But in the four-year period before the four years, the reduction for the whole country was over 11 000. These figures are not fully comparable due to a reform of the application procedures during the previous period and changes in basic conditions, but the figures show that the trend is decreasing. Despite that, I am not satisfied with the development. I also do not agree with the representative Bredvold that the number of deer cultivated area is greatly reduced in total. Total agricultural area — i.e. full-grown land and other meadows and pastures — increased continuously from the 1970s to around the turn of the century by more than 15pst. Then the total area is reduced by approx. 2 1⁄2 pst. And much of that, according to the Agricultural Budget Item, can be explained by the use of new digital maps, and this results in a technical reduction in the registered area. Full-grown land, especially the cereals, has been reduced, while meadow and pasture have increased. However, there is considerable variation around the average. Areas including: in the West and in Agder/Telemark there has been a greater reduction in recent years. This takes the government very seriously. It has therefore been addressed in the last agricultural agreements, and we will have considerable attention to it in the future. But it is also part of this picture that technological development, with ever-increasing machines, is helping some marginal areas to go out of operation. The aim of the government is to ensure active agriculture throughout the country and to ensure the ability of agriculture to serve the domestic market – with what we have naturally provided the basis for producing in Norway – when the population grows. That is why we have made provision for an income increase in agriculture, and we have prioritised the grass-based livestock sector. However, productivity growth continues, technology evolves, costs increase, and market demand changes. As a result, the long trend of employment reduction and fewer active agricultural holdings continues. But the budget heading figures show that the rate of departure has been reduced in recent years. The importance of technology and productivity progress can be illustrated by the fact that over the past 50 years, agricultural holdings have grown four times larger, measured on land, and production has increased by over 80 pst. Nevertheless, now 25 pst. less work in each enterprise, including rented work. Agriculture is a product-producing industry with difficult production conditions in a high-cost country. This is the reality that agricultural policy must be based on. I must say I wonder a little each time I hear representatives from the Progress Party suggesting that the policy has failed because there is still a structural development in the agricultural industry. Despite our starting point, we have a geographically spread small-scale agriculture in Norway. Agriculture policy is counter-current policy. The transfers are high internationally because the starting point requires the objectives we have for agricultural policy. And the instruments have not least a significant regional and structural profile. There is more widespread agriculture and much more active farms than we would otherwise have, and not least much more than we would have had if the agricultural policy of the Progress Party had been implemented. At this point I believe the Advance Party rides two horses that run each their own way, and the danger of pretending is, as we know, great in this situation. We will continue to work to ensure that agriculture is an attractive industry with good income opportunities and is increasingly developing new activities and a broad nutrient base.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1196	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, to my knowledge, did not make much sense, because it was like no promises or any progress plan. It is probably right to say that the last year of growing more land was 1997 – the last year of Bondevik government with which the Progress Party was involved and supported. Since then, the area has fallen and the last four-year period has been reduced by 141 000 crops. I guess you'd think it was a lot. In addition, there are 4 419 fewer farms in operation, and that is approx. 35,000 empty farms. This has happened over the last few years in particular, and it doesn't help much to say that there are fewer numbers when it's so little to take off afterwards – it's getting fewer and fewer. But I think that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government should take a closer look at the policy of the Progress Party – look at this with taxes and taxes, inheritance taxes, i.e. at opportunities for running a farm, and not just with cereals and potatoes, as you used to, but look at opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1203	Much of what happens in agriculture is done despite agricultural policy, not because of agricultural policy. Increased productivity and reduction in agricultural holdings has been ongoing for many decades – it is a recognition that we must take over all of us. The level of costs is very high, and natural conditions are well known in agriculture in Norway. We have trade relations with countries that have significantly better natural conditions and significantly lower cost levels. Technological developments deduce labour demand, plants and animals become more productive, and, as I said, agricultural policy is a heavy counter-current policy designed to counter the heavy trends in all countries. What happens because of agricultural policy is that structuralisation is considerably less in Norway than would otherwise have been if we had had the same policies as the countries with which we compete, with which everyone has heavy instruments such as the slowdown of structural development and centralisation as stated objectives. The government has implemented an income promise for the industry and strengthened the welfare systems and, in particular, strengthened the regional and structural profile. It's the most important thing to counteract the evolution that Bredvold stresses in her question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1210	I thank you once again for the answers of the Council of State. You have to see the possibilities of a farm more today than you did before. You can operate with more tourism, you can dislodge cabins, and you can, for example, Drive with lathing. There was an article in the Bondebladet that you were not allowed to do with walking, because that is not what you should do on a farm. There are so many other possibilities than just dealing with what's been common. I believe that with the agricultural policy, agricultural policy, fiscal policy, etc. of the Progress Party. new drivers are able to operate in a completely different way, and they want to operate. For example, it helps. Nor does it prohibit the cultivation of ants, e.g., which you used to do a lot with before. This government has adopted it. As late as today, the Progress Party has submitted a proposal for a representative, where I am one of the proposers, to have a new debate on predatory policy. I'm excited about what the Government will do with that proposal. There are many who want to run with buffs, and there are many who want to do hunting, but because of the predatory policy we have today, it is impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1217	What is crucial for Norwegian food production is what we call volume production, which is distributed throughout the country. Government policies are designed to ensure this volume production throughout the country, with a strong structure profile in order to maintain not least natural conditions to operate the agriculture we have. There is no doubt that we have a higher cost level and greater challenges in Norway than in countries where we compete in maintaining food production. We have to deal with this through the normal means of volume production, which is done through the agricultural agreement. In addition, I would like to stress that I agree with the representative, Mr Bredvold, that as a supplement we need to invest more in other industries, and in that way exploit the amazing resources we have around the countryside. It's about buildings, empty farms, travel, new industries – like lofting, for my part. The point is that it has to be done within the laws and regulations applicable to this industry. We are putting more emphasis on this, and it will be reflected in the new communication on agricultural and food policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1227	For the second Wednesday in a row, the Council of State Lighthouse and I stand alone in the hall. That's what asking the last question is. The question I want to address to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion is as follows: ‘In 2009 and 2010, funds were set aside for the training of lone minor asylum seekers. This is good, but the scheme covers only yeasts in the transit phase, and mainly for children in transit between 15 and 18 years of age. This means that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age are not guaranteed competent candidates. I am aware that Norwegian People's Aid has developed a model for a nationwide work organisation, which is engaged in recruitment, training and follow-up. Will the Council of State take the initiative in setting up a nationwide organisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1238	The last ones are going to be the first ones, so we can't take it so hard, neither the representative nor I, that we're going to be the last one in the round. I thank you for the question. It is not under the responsibility of my department but of the Ministry of Justice and Police. But I'm going to try to say a little about this anyway, because it's the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion that has responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15, and this is a matter that affects my department, and that I'm very concerned about. It is my responsibility to ensure the best possible offer to the lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. The national child protection system at Bufetat offers all lone minor asylum seekers in that age group to stay at a care centre, as is known, while the asylum application is handled by the foreign authorities. I believe that these care centres provide the children with a safe housing and care base. At the centres, they are treated for possible traumas, for sleepiness and for other difficult experiences. The most important function of care centres is to prepare the children for the best possible residence in municipalities or return to their home country in cases where that is the case. Buffetat operates seven care centers today. Otherwise, the county councillors are in charge of the care centres, in line with the child-restraint institutions. These children are also appointed in the same line as others. All the children get it, even though it's quite right that there are challenges associated with getting enough foresight. I am informed that the Ministry of Justice and Police is preparing a bill on the representative of lone minor asylum seekers. In view of that, it is natural for me to await the scheme and the proposal that is on the way. That's why I'm not going to take the initiative on a special nationwide scheme for those under 15 years of age in the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1249	Thanks for the answer. The system we have today with care centres is good in many areas. But it's a life even when you get out of these care centers. It's a life when you're going to live in the municipalities. The organization we have today does not function optimally in my view in relation to minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. For such a scheme, it is such that under 15 years of age single asylum seekers residing at regular reception in municipalities or residing in municipalities are not guaranteed competent spouses. This is often also linked to the ability of the individual municipality to invest in housing schemes, which is very different between municipalities. Therefore, such a nationwide mechanism can be an important measure, not least to motivate municipalities to accept minor asylum seekers in terms of residence. That's why I'm asking this question. I had hoped to get a different answer from what I was given.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1256	I have a considerable sense of Norwegian People's Aid. It's an organisation that does a very good job in different contexts and has a value base that I share and believe in. I have no doubt that the work they have done with a work arrangement is exciting work. It is also the case that the Government has spent money on single minor asylum seekers in the above age group because they are in a particularly vulnerable situation. Those in care centres are already in a situation where they receive significant follow-up and help. This does not mean that they do not need qualified cooks. If the representative listens to what I am saying, I do not reject the fact that we are going to improve the legislation here, but I say that since a legislative proposal is now under way that will give each single minor asylum seeker a representative of his own, I will not take another initiative at the top of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1261	I listened to the Council of State's response, and I heard that the Council of State mentioned this bill that is on its way. There's something about reinventing the powder. Norsk Folkehelp has a long experience in military work, they are responsible for a guarding system in the transit phase of Oslo, and they have developed this model for a nationwide military arrangement. What might be interesting is that if the Ministry of Justice engages in dialogue with Norwegian People's Aid, this bill may also include an organisation that has long, broad and good competence in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1266	I think that's definitely an interesting way to think about it. It's a little difficult for me to go into detail about what's in that bill, since it's under another department. Therefore, it is also a little difficult for me to say something about how to work with it. But of course, I want to be concerned that we are now getting the best through the system we have, and then we have to use the opportunity – we have a new legislative work going on – to improve what is not good enough. It would then be natural for the representative to engage in any dialogue with the Minister of Justice in order to make representations to this scheme. I'm sure he'll be more than open to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1271	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-17.ana.ud1642e1367	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
