ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e26	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e29	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to make the ‘undermining of the institution of asylum’ an aggravating circumstance in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e34	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e37	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make a proposal to draw up a report on the state's ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e42	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e45	On behalf of representatives Laila Davøy, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I have been delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on the framework conditions for non-profit actors operating health, care and child protection services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e50	Finally, Mr Anders B. Werp will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e53	On behalf of the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Ingerd Schou, Michael Tetzschner, Arve Kambe and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on strategy and measures to combat organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e81	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin Halvorsen State Council Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen State Council Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e100	I have a question for the Minister of Health and Care. Mette is sitting in the gallery today. She's a mom. One of her children is severely disabled. She does what all parents want, namely to take care of her own child, to care for her own child, to care for her own child. But in order for her to cope, as many other parents in similar situations around the country, she is dependent on a decent care allowance to get it done. We know that the situation varies considerably around the municipalities, as this is still – unfortunately – a municipal responsibility. The Health Authority has punished the municipalities to refuse many applications, and unfortunately it is in many municipalities that you do not have a fully-fledged system to attend to them. In other words, there are many families, many parents, who are fighting a completely meaningless and long-lasting fight to actually achieve a win-win situation. So one thing to do is to save public and taxpayers a considerable amount of money, because the option of caring for their own children – which is the most natural thing in the world – is a 24-hour institutional space where the distance between the family and those in need of care increases. In addition, it's better for those who need care, to be with those you're most happy with. As if that's not enough, it's reasonable for all of us to be able to function well in a normal family situation with those we're happy with. My question to the Council of State is: In January, the Council of State was challenged to pay care in this Chamber. What has happened since then?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e111	There is no doubt that parents who have disabled children have a high workload and often a very demanding everyday life. It is also very understandable that many parents want to take care of their children themselves, and pay for care is then a system that may be up to date. What I said in January was that we wanted to set up a sample to look at all of this in a wider sense, because, as the representative Jensen says, there were differences in the different municipalities – this was demonstrated. In these days, we're going to decrease this sample. We've been working on the mandate. The committee will work as soon as possible to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way to inform them about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e118	This doesn't last. The pension scheme has been in force for 20 years. Health oversight has also penalised the government because the scheme works too poorly, and changes have been required to ensure greater legal certainty for the families affected by it. In Soria Moria I, the government said they would strengthen this arrangement. In Soria Moria II it had been reduced to a review of the scheme. But it does very little to help the parents who are affected by this. The easiest way to solve this, rather than having new samples to figure out what we already know, is to make this a government funding mechanism that makes all families, no matter where they live, get the same right to decent care when the need arises. I have problems understanding that it's very difficult, and that it requires long investigations. I would like to know what the Council of State itself thinks about this, regardless of what the sample had to come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e127	There should be no doubt that there should be good arrangements for parents who have disabled children, because they very often get increased costs of having children who require both extra care and a lot of extra equipment. That's the government's concern. In the matter of care pay, I have actually replied to that in Stortinget more than once before and said that we want to put this sample down. It has taken some time to work on the mandate, but it is precisely because this is a system that works so differently. In order to achieve a more equal system, we have worked extensively with the mandate. We're about to put this sample down and we'll come back with it. But I would like to stress that this is just one of many arrangements in connection with taking on a great responsibility for care and care. We're going to have a proper review of this. That's exactly why we're putting the sample down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e136	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e139	The Minister of Health and Health talks about a sample, but on 18 January, Liv Signe Navarsete says to the Municipal Report that she wants the treatment of care pay to be equal across the country. She says that those who want to pay care should have a predictable system wherever they live, and that they should be able to take care of their neighbors without having any problems with the economy. She wants the state to cover 50 pst. of the scheme. Neighbors' seats further say that she wants to contact the Minister of Health and Care in order to have a quick review of the scheme. This was a joyous news for the Progress Party and all those who have fought for years for this scheme. Since I have little experience with what the government calls "fast review", I have the following questions: When is the Navarsets' care allowance introduced? Or is this just a new example that the government is conducting one policy in the media and another in the government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e148	Because the care allowance is an important scheme for those who use it, and because it has been practiced differently in different municipalities, I have also previously informed the Storting that we will reduce this sample to look at the scheme, so that it can be an equal scheme throughout the country. That selection is on the stairs. It's going to decrease by the first. The term of office of the selection is now complete. And then we're going to work as fast as we can to get back and get an equal order. I would like to stress that this is one of many schemes, but equally fully care pay is an important scheme for some families.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e155	Sylvi Graham – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e159	I'm really not sure which state council should answer my question, because it's about disabled children who become caste balls between state councillor Bjurstrøm and state councillor Stroem-Erichsen. Anyone who has a proposal for a solution might be allowed to answer here. In recent months, many families with severely disabled children have lost their right to care. These are families who cooperate with health services on comprehensive approved home care facilities for these children. Nav has now decided that this will no longer give entitlement to care allowance. It has dramatic consequences for these families because parents no longer have the opportunity to care for their children and run these intensive training courses. The alternative for the child is often a poorer and more expensive provision of accommodation. The right has addressed this issue with the Minister of Labour and has asked the families who have been granted this benefit to retain it. The Minister of Labour rejected this and referred to the care allowance, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare. When we point out that the care pay system works poorly, it is pointed further to the municipalities. [[President clubs]] Can we expect the Councils to interact? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e170	Then speaking time is out, and State Council Stroem-Erichsen is given the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e173	The representative, Sylvi Graham, said she didn't know which state council she was going to ask. In the case of care allowance and Nav, it is obvious that government council Bjurstrom is the right address for it. When it comes to care pay, I just want to repeat what I've said several times. We will have a full review of the welfare pay system. We're dropping a sample in these days. I've been briefing the Storting about that in the past. We have been working on the mandate precisely because this is going to be as equal and fair a system as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e180	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e183	We really know enough about care pay. I want to say it so strongly that it is a human right for children who are disabled, to be able to live at home with their parents. We will also find that in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But unfortunately, today it is not possible to do everything, not least because care pay is practised very differently in the different municipalities. There are clearly less ambitions in the government in this period. In the last period, we were happy that the government was going to improve the scheme. Now you have to go through it, and we have to accept that. We don't have a majority in the Biggest, we're the other people who want to do this faster. Will the sample start before the summer, and how long does the Council of State think it will take before parents who have disabled children can expect us to have an equal arrangement across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e192	Sometimes it seems that care pay is the only support system for families who have a great need for care and care for their children. It's not. It is one of several schemes, and the municipalities make different plans. Some municipalities provide very much for families with disabled children. I've seen a lot of examples of that myself. It would be wrong to create the impression that care pay is what is needed to provide support and care for disabled children and their families. So I'm concerned that this is going to be a fair arrangement. I can answer yes that the sample will be reduced before summer. I also want to repeat, as I said in Stortinget in the past, also in response to Laila Davøy, that we are going to work on this as quickly as possible in order to get a system that is equal throughout the country. I want to stress that this is one of several arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e199	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e202	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Focus yesterday was a new reminder that the school is failing many of the students who need it the most. It is unacceptable, in the opinion of the Right, that there is a decoration of grades rather than a grip on serious difficulties in reading and writing. The Minister of Knowledge has repeatedly stressed that everyone seems to agree that the teacher is the key to more education in school. A good teacher is a good educator, but he or she is also fundamentally engaged and competent in his or her subject. As Inge Wohnning said it: ‘No one is so good at teaching that he is able to teach others something he cannot himself.’ In high school, one in four real-time teachers with a penetrating period of five years. From 1998 to today, the number of students in secondary school has increased by about 30 000. In the same 12-year period, the number of teachers with real-life depression has been at rest. In plain text it means that today's government is heading towards a serious crisis in the real subjects of high school. We have too few teachers, and we're going to get too few teachers with depression, master degree. The real science strategy of the Halvorsen, ‘Real science for the future’, describes the serious situation. The problem is that it stops the review. In fact, when it comes to real-time teachers in high school, the strategy is bare for targets for recruitment. I assume that the Council of State believes it is serious that 25 pst. by real-time teachers who are immersed in their field of study, they disappear from higher education in five years. My question is: what immediate action will the Council of State and the Government take to counter the serious teaching crisis in real science that is now under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e222	This is where immediate action is taken a long time ago. This is a systematic work that we can't believe can solve in a very short time. This is precisely why it is important that we now systematically focus on recruiting more real-time teachers for school. It doesn't really start there. It starts by increasing interest in real science from school onwards. This is why we have increased efforts in primary, secondary and secondary education. You get extra points to choose real-life in higher education. You want to make sure you get better recruitment for real science at universities. This is extremely important, it's absolutely right. It's also important that many of the real-time teachers who may now be wondering if they want to get rid of the AFP, think about it again. Many of them we're going to need further in the future. So here's a systematic work that's going on, not some hokus pocus and immediate action, but systematic work. In addition, I would like to say that we have further training arrangements, which have been a topic between the representative Aspaker and me earlier in Stortinget, where we have a challenge as part of the places that have not been used. We are now working to see how we can ensure that teachers take extra study credits for example. continuing education mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e233	The only thing I think is systematic when it comes to action is the system of government parties voting for good proposals from the Right in this Chamber to get more speed on continuing training. The point is and the fact is that hundreds of places in continuing training for teachers are empty coming autumns. Every single place should be filled. The problem is that the senior measures proposed by the Right for real-time teachers have been voted down by the government parties. From TIMMS studies, we know that students with the greatest depression in mathematics have lower performances today than they should have. At the same time, the Government of the Real Skills Strategy Plan states that new renewable energy and other technological industries needing more real science than ever. I ask again: what are the immediate measures? I don't mean the long plans, because teachers disappear over the next five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e242	It's incredibly important to be able to keep a line in the bet on real science over time, and that's exactly what we've done. We can't expect that a little stunt one harvest is what saves us when we're recruiting skilled people to become real-time teachers. Now we have many possibilities in addition to those I had in my first answer, for example. we have the Lecturer II system, which allows those who have university education but do not have supplementary education to enter secondary school and participate in education there. We have other possibilities to do this, for example. people who have been trained in engineering can host hospitals. But it's a systematic work over time on stressing how important real science is, how important mathematics and arithmetic is, all the way up, which is what can help us sustainably and solidly – not little ideas now and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e250	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Henning Warloe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e253	We have many challenges and problems in Norwegian school. From the right-hand side, we keep pointing that out, because we're concerned about it. The Minister of Knowledge says that the Right Black paints the school. Of course, we can just start talking about what's good. Of course, we can point out that 70 pst. by the students, they complete secondary education. Of course, we could say that 80 pst. by students after 10 years at school can read and write properly. But I don't know if it gets so much better. I think people understand that we have some big problems in school, and they have to deal with it. The question to the Minister of Knowledge is, When will she recognise the major problems and challenges we have in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e260	This, I think, is a completely unaccountable post, because that's what we're doing every day in Norwegian school. We have to be able to go through the balance where we encourage all those who do a very good job – for them there are many of them in Norwegian school – while not undermining what we have of challenges. We have systematically invested in early efforts, improved reading and writing training, because we have seen that there are too many people who do not have basic skills in this. We know that this isn't just the key to Norwegian or English, it's also the key to science, to social sciences and to all the other subjects. In the case of non-response, I have invited the counties to a systematic cooperation, according to the model of how we got into port when it came to full child care coverage, namely that we have to find a common way of counting. We have to set some common goals for how to reduce the drop-out and increase the implementation. We have to make sure that more practical work is done in high school, so that more people have the opportunity to complete. So I have full pressure on this all the way!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e267	Let me say that I think the «real science for the future» is a very good look-up on the scale of the crisis. There it comes, among others. to the extent that there are major challenges to real-time competence, especially in mathematics. One in three math teachers might go off in the next five years. New recruitment is good on that occasion, but continuing training is probably the most likely main response. With the solution used by the government for continuing education, it will not take five years for these teachers to be in place – it will take 30 years for these teachers to be in place. So we're 25 years behind schedule. So the council says the places aren't being filled up. But that's because the government has chosen a heavy-duty, rigid and expensive system for the municipalities, instead of saying that we support the municipalities that solve this in the most appropriate way in each municipality. Will the Council of State now take the initiative to make that change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e274	The offer of continuing training is part of this GNIST cooperation that we have with several parties, for example: KS, Training Association, etc. This has been very successful in recruiting students to choose teacher training. We have very happy numbers so far for it. We had a meeting yesterday, and there was the topic: how do we get further education to work? Point 1: How can we now, in the last turn, make sure to occupy the places that are not yet occupied? Point 2: What do we do to make it a system that is being filled and that can be further developed? I am disappointed that we have not received any more applicants for further training places, and I will follow up in such a way that we ensure that this will be a successful scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e283	We've had ministers of knowledge who, as pearls on a sphere, have progressed and said that now we're going to get a new real-time job here in the country. It's because everyone's seen that there's a need and that you have to do something. But I think some of the problem around this is that we talk into many teachers and parents' bad conscience for lack of knowledge and own knowledge about this. An example of turning the whole trend around is Stiklestad elementary school. There were two inspired teachers who went on a course and brought with them all the other teachers in a math project. This resulted in sitting and working with the math cat, and parents, students and teachers eventually built a bridge, as a system to get this done, and it became a glowing inspiration. How can we get this into system, so you don't depend on the two fires that were happy in math? Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e292	Yeah, I definitely think so. I think there are a lot of people who are looking for the good tools, not to make the math far away, which you don't need in everyday life, but to find the math and the bill in everyday life, as appropriate. I think that's where a lot of the distance to that subject arises. We work systematically to get better tools, to get more guidance for teachers, to spread the good practical examples, to put better emphasis on it in teacher training, etc. But what is an important recognition when you run with knowledge and education – the representative Dagrun Eriksen knows very well – is that it takes time. It takes time to awaken the interest in arithmetic, math and natural sciences among young people, and recruited for real science further in universities – and again can recruit to schools. There is no quick fix in this area. It's systematic work that we're doing. But there's an incredible amount of exciting happening in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e299	All the parties have now chosen a rhetoric that the Left is very pleased with, which says it's the teacher that's most important. We have heard previous parties here today who take credit for the proposals we have made, and I think that is fantastic. That means there's a drive here to get something done with the teacher's piece. Governments also have the right words about how important the teacher is. But in reality, it is not a priority. The big promise that the government is making in school now is several hours – several hours with teachers we don't have, several hours with teachers that we just have to put in, either unskilled or – I don't know what kind of plan the government really has. So my question is: Behind all the rhetoric about how important teachers are, behind the rhetoric that teachers are the most important investment to get to a good school – why does the government give more hours of teachers we don't have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e306	The representative Skei Grande will follow closely, and she will have noticed that the ambitions we've had to get more hours, we've subdued something because we've been busy making sure that it's quality in the hours we have. In the case of homework, which is the new grip coming from the autumn of 1st to 4th grade, it is suggested that there are assistants to carry out the homework but under pedagogical guidance. We believe that this can work for 1 to 4 steps. It is quite right that there is one success criterion in Norwegian school that stands above all else, and it is a good, clear teacher who is a natural authority in the class, who has good leadership qualities and who has good professional competence and good pedagogical competence. It's a superhuman I'm describing now, but there's actually a lot of those superhumans. Making sure that we have that teacher training and get guidance and further education in place is the key.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e315	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e318	I have a question for the Minister of Health and Care. It is almost three years since the government signed an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left to introduce a dignity guarantee in the care of the elderly. The guarantee of dignity shall ensure greater rights and better treatment and care for the elderly. It shall include, inter alia: ensure that the elderly are entitled to sick leave when they need it. It shall also ensure that sick elderly people receive relief treatment and a worthy death, professionally sound follow-up of doctors and other relevant health professionals, some to talk to about life, etc. Nearly one year ago, a legislative amendment proposal was put to the hearing, but it is now more than six months since the consultation deadline expired. The communication of unsustainable conditions in the care of the elderly continues. The parents are sent home to themselves from the hospital without being able to handle themselves, the elderly are waiting for a sick home, but do not know how long they have to wait. In the election campaign, the Prime Minister was outside and promised that the guarantee of dignity with, among other things, right to the hospital place now coming. This was also the agreement we reached when the consultation note on the guarantee of dignity was run out separately from the work on new laws in force in the department. This happened in front of the election campaign. After the election campaign it has become very quiet. My simple question is, When does the guarantee of dignity come?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e332	It is true that the guarantee of dignity was an agreement in which the Christian People's Party and the Left were with the government parties. We are working on it and have worked on it, so there are many measures in the area of the guarantee of dignity that have already been implemented. Among other things, the construction of nursing homes is part of this. When it comes to legal work, and that's what's most interesting here, it was originally a plan that the right to a decent service should be included in the new health and care law. It was scheduled to be dealt with in 2010. Now it comes in the spring of 2011, and that's why we're going to link the regulation on a decent care for the elderly to the municipal health service law, where it's made a change and is the basis for it. The regulation that details the entire guarantee of dignity, we will come along in 2010, as the plan was. It will then describe the commitment to competence, all that is involved in the ethical effort in the municipalities, investment grants, financing of technical school offerings and the entire training plan relating to competence, the dementia plan, etc. – the other areas covered by the guarantee of dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e339	If I understand the Council of State correctly, the guarantee of dignity does not come as such before the Municipal Health Act. Now the Council of State shakes its head, so she might think that all the guarantees of dignity, that is, the dignity of the elderly, the right to hospitalization, etc., come this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e344	Then we're going to allow the council to answer orally as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e347	This she must answer a little more clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e352	The Local Health Service Act is to be followed by a new Health and Care Act. This was scheduled to arrive this year, but it will arrive in the spring of 2011. There is something to do with the handling of the interaction message in Stortinget, which was scheduled to be in the autumn, but which came now. As a result, the law work is somewhat delayed. Because it is delayed, and in order not to delay the guarantee of dignity and the regulation that describes all the measures in the guarantee of dignity, we will link the regulation to the municipal health service law. This is the basis of the Local Health Act. The regulation shall be ready in 2010, as planned. I can assure the representative Davøy that we have full pressure on this and will join us this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e357	It is given a diversion to three follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e360	On the TV 2 news yesterday we got a very good example of how important it is to get the dignity guarantee in place. We met an elderly woman from Hamar, 85 years old, seriously ill and with a great need for a sick home. When the head of care and care in Hamar asked why this woman did not have a place to stay in hospital, the answer came briefly and concisely: because in Hamar we do not have enough places to stay in hospital. This is just the last case in a number of many. Since 2008, municipalities have been able to apply for a State grant to build several hospitals. In the municipal bill that was presented yesterday, it appears that the money for the construction of nursing homes has not been used up. The situation, inter alia: Hamar shows that it is essential to have a rapid expansion of health care facilities. We know that the threshold for space is very high for the sickest of the elderly. My question to the Council of State is: Do the Council of State assess measures to increase the number of municipalities to build hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e369	The reduction referred to in the TV 2 news yesterday was simply a technical adjustment compared to grants that were not used up in 2009. That was the whole point of that matter. The matter is, of course, serious, because it is serious when serious sick elderly people do not get hospitalized. Here I must also say that when the municipality is unable to provide a nursing home, the municipality must provide adequate care and care for those who need it. In 2009, there were originally planned grants to 1000 new nursing homes and homes. In the context of the financial crisis and the package of measures to the government, a grant of 1500 additional was adopted. All of these weren't realized last year. 1000 of them were realized, so it was built 2,000, but 500 were not used. Evenly, there are 2,500 new places to come this year. Then we're halfway to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e376	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e379	I feel that there is a need for some clarifications here. In the election campaign, the Workers' Party traveled the country and the beach around and promised, yes guaranteed, sick place for everyone who needed it, by 2015. On the news yesterday we heard the council say we were halfway to the goal. My first question is whether the Council of State from Stortinget's pulpit can confirm that we have got 6,000 new sick homes. The party of progress has also said several times that the government's ambitions in this area are far too low to meet the needs we face. We see that a number of municipalities are relocating their nursing homes. We see that they don't have financial muscles to use the state grants and current arrangements. You're afraid you can't use the loans, and you're afraid you can't use the necessary manning. When we see that you cut 180 million. kr i revised, there is a confirmation of exactly that. Will the Council of State ensure that the State takes the necessary action to enable the facilities needed to be built and put into service? Or is the Workers' Party election guarantee worth zero?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e388	Hospitals and nursing homes are being built throughout the country. It's good access from the municipalities. We did not use up all the grants for 2009, but for the current year, 2500 places have been promised. That's what we're going to build in the current year. That means we're about halfway to reaching the goal of 12,000 places by 2015. Then we also say that we have to make an assessment of whether there is a need for more places, but we'll see about that. For the time being, there is full pressure, and there is a good application for the municipalities. But there are also projects to be completed before money is allocated, and priority should be given to the least developed ones first. This is a job that we have a lot of pressure on, because it's important to get more hospitals. It showed the TV 2 feature very clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e398	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e401	Good medical coverage in nursing homes is essential for the sickest elderly to receive good treatment. The government has talked a lot about how it should shine out of the care of the elderly, but according to the National Audit Office, more than 4,000 doctors are missing per day. weeks to meet the need. Right-wing wants dedicated hospital doctors and will provide them with better pay and professional challenges. In Stavanger, this strategy has been successful and has significantly improved the medical coverage of hospitals. The government's answer so far is to force the decision-makers to work two days a week in hospital and leave the sickest elderly to the tour applicants. Does the Council of State consider that this provides more dignified and prudent treatment and care for the sickest of the elderly, or does it have any other proposal for action than the use of coercion to increase medical coverage in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e408	I fully agree that it is important to have a good medical coverage in the nursing homes. It's important both to ensure the care of those who live there, and when it comes to medication, which is a theme we've been in on many times in Stortinget. It is especially important that there is good medical coverage, with doctors who may be responsible for it. It is also a good arrangement for the decision-makers to spend one day a week, seven and a half hours in some contexts, as they will be at the disposal of the primary health care services in hospitals. The medical coverage in hospitals has increased by 30 pst from 2006 to 2009. So we're on the right track to get a much better medical coverage in the nursing homes. It's a happy development, and it's a development we're going to continue. Because it is important that we have good medical coverage and good doctors for the sickest of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e413	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e416	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. In Norwegian school, we use 40 pst. more in school than the OECD average. The result is 20 pst. lower than the OECD average. Yesterday’s focus was on the 1994 and 1997 reforms, which have resulted in a total of one in five students reading so poorly that they cannot acquire knowledge from schoolbooks. These students have spent ten years in the SV unit school and the Workers' Party has built up. It is the most expensive school in the OECD area, but one out of five does not have satisfactory reading skills. Following Reform 94 and Reform 97, which are run by the parties currently in government, absences have increased, and the nature and level of knowledge have declined. I want to make a statement, and that's that Gudmund Hernes with Reform 94 gave us what I call a Soviet-renowned play school. Many teachers today take more time to keep quiet and order and to get students to come to school than to do their job, which is to impart knowledge. The result of this is unmotivated students both among the theoretical strengths and the intellectually weak, grades that do not match the real level of knowledge, and that students receive grades without being present at school. When students come to high school without the necessary skills and without the necessary work routines, there are some demands on these students, and then they are faced with challenges, which lead to major non-responses. Isn't it time for the Council of State to take a settlement with Gudmund Hernes's playground and say that now we're going to start demanding both teachers, school owners and also students that the results must begin to come, and to remove a little bit of the social approach to Gudmund Hernes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e427	I think Gudmund Hernes would be quite offended if he had heard this characteristic. But we're very clear and concerned that we have to be clearer about the goals you want to achieve in school. We work with assessment and feedback, we work with basic skills, we work with early work, and we work to reduce the drop-out from high school. But I just have to warn against one thing, and that is to romanticize what was the situation before Reform 94. Reform 94 gave all students the right to begin high school. There is no alternative for a 16-year-old today not to try to pursue further education, because the place of work is very demanding. It was also before Reform 94 that many students went on a basic course after a basic course, and did not get through. So it was absolutely necessary to do something to get to a good vocational training. The focus programme yesterday was ten years old. Fortunately, you have worked systematically in these years to ensure that there are clearer and clearer goals to achieve in school. We work intensively with assessment and how to give students feedback, because we have very clear research results that show that it has been too unclear for many people: what do you do, for example? to improve your skills and knowledge in a profession? Many teachers are systematically working on it, and we are working systematically to get guidance on how to do it. It also works very systematically to get the reading and writing training up. One in five students reads and writes too poorly, i.e. most people know the letters, but there's something about understanding the context and the texts and getting them involved, which makes us have a significant job to do. Fortunately, it works systematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e438	Now both the Council of State and the questioner are so lucky that we got through the Norwegian education system before 1994. At least I'm happy. It is not the objectives of the Council of State that I am concerned about; it is, to a greater extent, the means of action. As far as the weakest students are concerned, we know that there is a urge in the red-green system to address in detail how to solve things: to reduce the diversity of Norwegian schools, both in-house and in private. We know that some weak students can benefit from alternative pedagogics, which become less of a red-green policy. But I think the Council of State is interested in something important when it comes to facilitating and trying to be dynamic. This is the case where a practical letter system has been introduced in many countries in Norway, which is most likely to be better adapted to many of those who are currently taking the professional and these out of the profession. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all Norwegian students can apply for the practical letter scheme in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e447	The practical lettering system we've been trying with, which is now open to all the states to participate in, has proved to be very successful. Policy letter is an offer to students who leave high school with very poor basic skills in Norwegian and math and a lot of absence. There is then the possibility of being four days in a workplace, with a mentor or a father, and one day at school. What are the very positive results, is that the absence went down, the interest in setting up and completing went up considerably, and after completing two years, there were two thirds of these students who wanted to go on and take a letter. So this is a very successful attempt. It's expanding now, so that all the states can be involved, and we have to make sure that there is also actually an offer in all the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e454	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Mette Hanekamhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e457	We have come to realize that a united political Norway is committed to preventing high school drop-outs. And the Council of State has repeatedly called for early efforts and said that the basis for the completion of secondary education is formed in primary school. The focus yesterday pointed out that one in five students cannot read and write properly, but that the right to secondary education allows students to continue, despite the high level of absence and deletion in several subjects. Often they end up as "dropping out". My question to the Council of State is therefore: How does the Council of State approach a possible solution that means that students are retained in primary school for basic knowledge and competence in reading, writing and billing have actually been achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e464	Reintroducing dumping is a very bad idea. We have international research results that show that, and there is no reason why we should repeat old mistakes or introduce mistakes that other countries do. What is very important is that the basic skills of the students are strengthened. Yesterday's focus was 10-20 years old. There are no parties, as far as I know, that call for not all students to be entitled to secondary education. Nor is there anyone who calls for compulsory primary education in Norway. We have one common problem, and that is: when students do not have enough basic skills and knowledge to complete higher education, we need to get these facts on the table quickly. That's why we now have screening tests from the first high school, just to figure out which students need extra effort. Then you have to throw yourself over them immediately to ensure that they are able to read and calculate, so that they have the opportunity to attend high school. So, of course, it doesn't start the fight against high school drop-outs, it starts a lot before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e476	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e479	The focus programme so much backwards, but the right is looking forward to finding good solutions that allow more students to complete high-level education with good results. The right-wing vocational lift contains a number of proposals to reduce the drop-out, but the government parties voted against all, despite the fact that these were proposals that had received broad support from many of them. In the light of the serious issue of non-response, will the Minister of Knowledge and the Government reconsider and reconsider its opposition to the proposals of the Right on their own curricula for the professions, on a new recruitment programme to bring experienced professionals to school, as a complement to the Teacher II scheme, on alternative training courses without the need for students to have a diagnosis in order to obtain them, and to increase government efforts for more apprenticeship places?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e486	There has never been so much ‘driving’ in the work against apostasy as it is now. And fortunately, not only are knowledge ministers concerned about this, it has also reached the top of the national agenda. I'm very happy about that. There has never been such a systematic effort to ensure that students are equipped with more knowledge at the bottom to obtain more practical vocational training, and there has never been such a plan for systematic cooperation between the counties and the state. Elisabeth Aspaker has previously been in the Ministry of Knowledge for four years, and the drop-out has been at this level for 15 years. I can't help but understand that there's one area like the Right and we disagree, and that's the question of curricula in general secondary education. I've gone through the curricula that are -- we're adjusting them now. It is quite obvious that they should be professionally trained. I don't think there's any reason why we're going to spend time making new teacher plans. We can start already in the autumn with more practical theory in the vocational school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e493	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e496	The principle that everyone should have the right to higher education is a good principle, and it supports the Christian People's Party wholeheartedly. But at the same time as Reform 94, other things have happened in school afterwards. There has been more theorizing, there has been an increased pressure to deliver on theory, and the practical feature in the school has been greatly reduced since 1994. When we have a school where it's not just the few that don't fit in, but it's just 56 pst. able to complete within the time we have spent in high school, we begin to see a system that may not be suitable for the most people, to use an expression that is often used in this room. My question is: can the Minister of Knowledge now start spending the money on these things, instead of increasing the number of hours and theory pressure on the very smallest students, and putting in an effort, so that we get a school that makes the most people fit in and not just the few?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e503	Actually, I think we have to do both. Because if we take lessons from primary school – as the Christian People's Party suggests in its alternative budgets – I'm afraid it's just taken from what's the practical approach to different subjects. So we have to make sure that there's enough time to work in practice with theory. I'm very pleased with the perspective that Dagrun Eriksen has, because that's the broad perspective. I think in the discussion now about how we get to a more practical motivating approach to theory, we don't have to think that it's a special arrangement for a few students who are struggling to implement. We have to think about width, and we have to think about all of the students. I think all students need different learning methods. Students have slightly different insights into which learning methods work best for them, but all students are more motivated by greater variation. So this is a main task for me, both how we develop high school, and also the message about high school we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e510	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e513	I'm one of those people who has experience with Reform 94. That's why it's a little tempting to challenge the state council. Now I've heard a lot of glamorous words about this. However, I ended when Reform 94 was introduced. I had quite little faith in the reform, I felt it was poorly prepared, and I felt it was being trodden down over the teachers' heads. The frustration was very great among my colleagues. It was something about the free, proud teacher's role that disappeared, and I saw it closely. So what I see now, doesn't surprise me. We have a lot of work to do, and the Left likes to contribute with good advice. Then I want to challenge the Council of State for three good advice: it's the follow-up training of teachers, less bureaucracy in school, and, as Trine Skei Grande said, prioritising the teachers before increasing the number of hours at school. Will the Council of State listen to these counsels?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e518	Yes, I will. We are in the process of developing programmes for both continuing and continuing training. In the case of less bureaucracy, we are now following up the time-use survey that has been carried out, and the Time-use Committee, which has presented its position. We promote our own big message about it in order to commit ourselves jointly to thinking about time use in school. And we give priority to what is the teacher's competence. Then I just want to say about reform 94: there is a lot that could have been done differently in reform 94. It's evaluated, and it's always a great transition for teachers and students to undergo as much reform as Reform 94 was. But the discussion that not all students should be entitled to secondary education, and that maybe 20 pst. of the students not to participate in secondary education, is not the way to go. There will be no room for them in the future labour market. Then we have with open eyes parked them on the outside. We have to be able to do this, so that's an offer for all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e525	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e528	I think the Minister of Labour also deserves a question. According to a Fafo report, schemes with alternative turns have given both lower sick leave and more satisfaction to employees. In a pilot project in Bærum stated 50 pst. by the employees that it had had a positive effect on their health status. The users are satisfied, precisely because there are fewer inwards and fewer inwards to deal with. The local trade unions and local trustees are pleased. The right has been called for to make it easier to have alternative tour arrangements. Then the Secretary of State said it was flat rhetoric. Around the country, there are also many workers' party people who have discovered alternative turns. The Chairman of the Administrative and Equality Committee in Skien, Ingerd Martinsen, says the following: ‘It’s time to look at the Working Environment Act. It is old-fashioned and there is a need to revise it. Flexibility and how to work have changed’. Martinsen can then tell us that she has addressed these proposals with the Minister of Labour personally, and also sent a letter. She has not yet received an answer – at least she did not have it a few days ago, so we can hope that she might look at this questioning. But my question to the Minister of Labour is: Is the Minister's message to local Ap-Trusts when they say that the Working Environment Act needs to be more flexible, that it is 'flat rhetoric'? Or is she going to do something about this because of the users, the elderly and the employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e547	I can only at once say that I have told Martinsen that this is ‘flat rhetoric’ – I have spoken to Martinsen. These are major deviations from the working time rules of the Working Environment Act – rules designed to protect workers. Then we see that we have had repeated issues in connection with the system of exemptions for the work environment law relating to different types of rotational arrangements. In very many cases, exemptions are granted according to the rules applicable to this scheme. I think in many, many cases we'll see that this works well. But then there has been a search on situations where the necessary exemptions have not been granted – allegedly. I would like to say that in the legislation that you have, you have tried to strike a balance between the user's need to have a decent workforce, the people who care for them, and the workers' ability to stand up to a whole working life in the job you have. I have now expressed that balance, also to Martinsen. We're going to see if there's a need to do something about the system we have. I'll come back to that in the message I'm going to get to the Stortinget, about the working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e556	I have to say that I am pleased that the Council of State has a different language from that of its Secretary of State and rejects the fact that this is flat rhetoric. Then I assume that it also applies when it comes to proposals from the Right team, and not only when it comes to suggesting exactly the same thing from the working party team. In the municipality of Skien in Telemark, they had – this is an example of how these schemes work – something called the ‘small position project’. As a result, 274 local employees in Skien got a higher job fraction. It would have been a good investment, also because it gives more people the opportunity to get full-time jobs, which is important. That project had local political support, it had local trade union support. But it was then with today's legislation the trade union central that concluded it, it was they who put with the last decision-making authority for whether the project should continue. When the Minister of Labour makes a communication about this, will it still be that the trade unions are central – not locally, where they know the users, know the employees, know the jobs – who will have the last words in these cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e563	I'm not going to say anything about or suggest any of the things that are going to come in such a message, because this is a large and relatively complex matter. I would like to say that I fully agree that in most cases, it works very well that the parties locally agree on this. But we also need to respect the fact that there are different strengths in the case of workers in different situations. We have industries in Norway where we know that there is a very low level of organisation, where there is very little focus on good working conditions and rights. That is why there are systems where this is raised to a higher level, to look at the breadth, to take care of the interests of employees, including overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e568	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e571	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. Experience from various rotational schemes, both from housing for mentally ill people in Bergen and from Skien with resident patients in the respiratory system, is very positive in the situation of users. One has had a reduction in the use of sedatives, one has improved the quality of life for patients. Not least, one sees that one can meet some of the objectives of the Cooperation Reform, by providing patients with a more stable and better follow-up who need respiratory and 24-hour care. The employees are satisfied, the municipality is satisfied. The Minister of Health should also be satisfied, because this results in many of her objectives of quality in the care services in the municipalities actually being implemented. In the work that will now begin with a big message – will the Minister of Health then engage and get a system in line with what the Right has proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e580	As the Minister of Labour also said, there is experience that this scheme can work well in some places. Then it is also true that if this is to be a general scheme, you also have to take care of the employees who will be in a very special rotational arrangement. This has to be assessed against both the Labour Environment Act and the general opportunities for a working life. Here, the needs of those receiving care — and for many of them, it may be a very good system — are to be met and weighed against the conditions of the workers. I really think that the Minister of Labour answered this very well – that this is something that they are working on. Then we'll get back, also on the basis of those experiences, and see what we can achieve in collaboration between the employee organisations and the municipalities in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e585	Vigdis Giltun - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e588	My question goes to Minister of Labour Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm. The Labour Party has promised full time to all, and believes that part-time is unacceptable. When employers and municipalities follow up, they are stopped by a rigid code. As Torbjørn Røe Isaacen said here, a very successful pilot project has been carried out to show that it is possible to give employees much more full-time jobs. They've had sick leave, it's more well-being, which contributes to a better recruitment in an area where you want to lack labour in the years to come. Users are less likely to react; there is no indication of dissatisfaction with users. Then the projects are stopped after they have been completed, by legislation and a work environment law that does not open up to good solutions. When there is a cross-political consensus on the objectives, it is also necessary to look at this and take the necessary action. When will the government look at the Working Environment Act and make the necessary changes there, so that good projects can be continued as lasting solutions in the municipalities where it is desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e595	Involuntary part-time is a problem that governments take seriously and work on. I believe it is such a big problem that you cannot believe that the solution to this is an exception to the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, with a tour scheme that in many cases means that you work 12 hours a day one week and then you have three weeks off. That's not the solution to the future problem. There are likely to be new problems for the employees concerned. Part-time problems must be addressed in a completely different way. However, the situation described by the representative will also be part of the assessment to be made in the context of the notification with which we will come to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e600	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e603	Then the Minister of Labour can stand, because my question goes on the side that concerns inclusive working life. The interesting thing when you look at the various experiments that have been carried out is that a better working environment has been created. This has been illustrated by some examples. I could take an example from Kristiansand as well. The sea urchin has tried out the so-called North Sea model. Today, the fatherland friend stated clearly that the sick leave had been reduced by nearly two thirds. So I'm surprised that the government council is so square when it comes to this kind of project, when you see that one has been closed down by getting the sick leave, one has been added, trusted and users. One is also available locally, one is able to customize the projects locally. So I'm a little bit curious that the Council of State wants to be so square. So my question is: does the Minister of Labour want to give these projects and the test schemes to delete? And will she prevent that kind of project where one tries new things and gets shut down, getting started?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e613	It's just here shown that projects are successful, and it shows that this works in general within the framework we have today. However, it also appears that in some cases this has been assessed differently locally and centrally. I've said that I'll go in and see if the way we're doing this today is one way that we're going to go on and on. But I want to underline what I also said to the main question: we need to be aware that there are different strengths in different employment conditions in Norway. We have a number of industries in which I am not sure whether you can locally be pushed into working time schemes that have quite aberrations from the Working Environment Act. That's why we have to look at this in a whole way so that we don't go wrong here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e620	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e626	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Knut Arild Hareide to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold to the Minister of Justice, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has leave. Question 10, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered in response to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e642	I hope that this question is perceived as factual by the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The health and care sector has a major need to train more health professionals. As of 2010, a new examination scheme for adult education in the field of health, with a change in examination form and timing, has been put in place. A number of students in Hordaland who completed education in 2009 and passed the exam in January 2010 have subsequently passed the exam and are now without a certificate of competence as a skilled worker. Hordaland County has taken the matter up with the Education Directorate. Will the Council of State intervene and ensure that students receive their diplomas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e656	Hordaland County Council has been made aware of the current rules through a reply letter from the County Council of Hordaland to questions from the County Council on the understanding of the regulations at this point. I have been informed by the Education Directorate that Hordaland County nevertheless arranged the exam under the old scheme in January 2010. The county council has come to the conclusion that the new examination requirement must be complied with and has therefore decided that the candidates who passed the examination under the old scheme in January must take a written examination at Vg3 level. The county council is responsible for providing a sound training offer and conducting examinations in accordance with the applicable legislation. The county council has been made aware of the national legislation in this area but has not offered the students proper examinations. I assume that the county council is doing what is necessary to remedy the unfortunate situation faced by the current candidates. And then I encourage the county council to do the following: The Regulation of the Training Act provides a general basis for granting exemptions from the rules on assessment in specific cases. Therefore, the county council has the opportunity to apply to the directorate for a derogation from the applicable examination requirement of the regulation. Any dispensation may mean that the practical candidates concerned may have the examination they carried out in January approved. The relevant elements in the dispensation case may be that errors have been made and that incorrect information has been provided. So my very clear appeal to Hordaland County Council is: seek immediate exemption from this. There are exam candidates here who have come into a very desperate situation, and who have quite clearly believed that the exam they took was the one that could apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e669	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I fully agree with the very opinion of this matter. We are dealing with a fairly large group of adult workers who have done what we all want, namely to take adult training, in this case through the county community, in order to increase their competence in the important job they do, in this case in the health and care sector. That's something we all want more adult workers to do. These students then experience that they feel cheated. So I'm very pleased with what the Council of State says about the possibility of applying for a waiver. Now it is true that the training directors of several county municipalities – in all five county municipalities of which Hordaland is one – sent a letter to Education Directorate on 2 November last year, i.e. a long time before the exam was held in January, to clarify the changes in regulations and some formulations that created doubts and uncertainties about the situation of these students. So I would like to encourage the Council of States to make an in-depth assessment of exactly these formulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e678	I am aware that several education directors in several states have addressed this issue, because it is about how to assess real competence. It's a slightly different question, because it's about the exam for those who had now taken the exam in January in Hordaland, who got it signed afterwards, it's about the legislation that's today, and what it's like to understand. There I see that the education director in Hordaland also says that the legislation is to understand that this type of examination cannot be carried out today, but there are fortunately dispensations. But then I am looking carefully at whether the legislation in this area is good enough in relation to what we want adults to be able to pass their real skills and receive a well-adulted letter. So there's one thing I'm working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e685	I thank you for this answer, too, and I think it is good that the Council of State will look at this. I think, in principle, that it must be an opportunity for good adult workers who have a long professional experience to get an assessment and an advantage of the real skills they have, because we still need these workers, especially in this important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e692	I fully agree with that. It is very important that it is possible for adults with a lot of experience in the workplace to have the real skills they have and to have the opportunity to take a letter. The question is how to facilitate it. I'm looking at that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e697	So we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e703	This question, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister of Culture, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e706	My question, which was originally addressed to the Minister of Culture, which I understand is to be answered by the Minister of Knowledge, is as follows: ‘The government has repeatedly stressed the importance of cultural schools since 2005 and that the government will be investing in cultural schools. In point 4 of the Cultural Lift, among others:‘A cultural school commitment is to be made so that all children who wish to do so receive a quality cultural school offer at a reasonable price.’ What action will the Council of State take to fulfil the promise of a cultural school offer to all those who want it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e715	Culture School is one of the most important arenas to give all children an equal opportunity for cultural activity and to develop their artistic skills. The Government allocates earmarked funds to the Ministry of Knowledge budget to strengthen cultural school provision. As you know, the cultural promise II is a four-year bet. The goal is that all children who want it will have a cultural school place in 2014. The 2010 budget has a budget of 40 million. kr from Kulturløftet II as an ear-marked state incentive to cultural schools/cultural activities in school. The funds shall be used to test different models of cultural activities. Part of the funds shall be used for model testing, where municipalities and organisations shall be able to seek funding to facilitate a diverse cultural offer/school offer for 1 to 4 students. steps. The Directorate shall submit proposals for allocating funds to the Ministry of Knowledge by 1 September 2010 and shall pay grants in accordance with the guidelines by 1 October 2010. The criteria for the allocation of funds are now under assessment in the Ministry. Through the Cultural Promise II, we want to help many more children and young people gain access to a well-functioning cultural school offer. The Culture School Committee set up this year will examine the quality, price and availability of activities. The selection will also assess how cultural school activities can better interact with the existing teaching of the practical-esthetic subjects and the offer of the cultural school bag. A main objective of the work of the sample is to make visible different alternatives that ensure a strengthened, more culturally diverse and equivalent cultural school offering for more children at a reasonable price. The Culture School Committee shall deliver its nomination on 23 August of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e728	I am pleased to note that the Council of State and I clearly agree on the importance of the cultural school offer. But I must be allowed to remind you that it is not a new promise from the government to ensure that all children who want it, a cultural school offer. The Prime Minister was very clear on this in the election campaign when he, among other things, to the Official Journal of Bergen stated: «Everyone shall be offered a cultural school.» I must then be allowed to repeat my question: what measures will be taken to ensure that the queue of 30 000 children who want a cultural school offer can fall sharply, and that everyone who wants it is guaranteed a real offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e735	I have answered that question, both because this is part of the Cultural Promise II, and because we are at the beginning of a growing period that lasts for four years. So the Prime Minister has his word. We are now working to find out how we can connect this offer more closely to, for example. The school leave system, so that it can be an offer that children receive right after school, will increase the availability of most. As you know, the Bondevik II government terminated the earmarked grants for the cultural school. At that point, we had a maximum price of 1600 kroner. Then the price was strongly added to the weather. The studies we've done later show that it was when the jump came. In addition to this, the price level introduced in 2004 has largely been maintained. That means that some offers, mostly those that are one-to-one education, can be very expensive. What's very pleasing is that there are more children who can accommodate in the cultural school now than before. Nevertheless, there are several people in line – for the more people who know about it, the more people want a place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e744	I must be allowed to remind the Minister of Knowledge that the Red-Green government has been sitting for almost five years. So it might have to end that you still owe it to those who were sitting before, and you start taking responsibility. Now the price is up to 4,500 kroner, and now it's 30,000 in line. Now it's time to take responsibility and make sure that the promises you have made are actually fulfilled. I want to challenge the Minister of Knowledge with regard to the many voluntary and private actors who can also be involved in complementing this offer. I believe it must be absolutely central that you play on all the good powers in order to give everyone a good offer. The municipality plays an important role through its cultural school offering, but I believe that the voluntary organisations and private actors must also be part of the municipality's overall offer through a quality assurance from the municipal cultural school offering. Will the Council of State ensure that private operators can also receive a share of the grant schemes as long as this is ensured by the municipality’s cultural school provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e753	Culture schools no longer receive an earmarked grant. The cultural schools are part of the municipalities' framework transfers. That introduced the Bondevik II government – I almost have to put the responsibility there, even though it was a while ago – and that was when the big price jump at the cultural school happened. Now it has to be said that the municipalities have given priority to the cultural schools afterwards, because studies show that the appropriations for the cultural schools have increased. There is nothing in the way that municipalities can use private to provide a cultural school offer. Paragraph 13-6 of the Training Act states that all municipalities, alone or in cooperation with other municipalities, should have a music and cultural school offer for children and young people, organised in connection with the school system and other cultural activities. So if it's fulfilled, there's nothing wrong with -- if the municipality wants it -- that private can provide cultural education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e760	The size then goes back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e766	‘On the E39 at Flekkefjord, six people have been killed in traffic in 10 years, cf. question to written reply No 9 for 2009-2010. Accidents have been analysed and proposals for short- and long-term measures are now available. This short distance is the most accident-affected route on the E39 through West Agder and needs permanent measures. On the basis of this report, will the Council of State decide that midpoints will be built on the E39 accident route at Flekkefjord, so that more fatal accidents will be avoided in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e773	There have been two serious accidents on the E39 at Flekkefjord in the last few years. In both accidents, there were three deaths. The first accident involved three young people on their way to Flekkefjord. The car ran out on the left-hand side just before the launch from Flekkefjord towards east and hit, among others. slope of the soil. The second accident occurred last year in connection with a pass-by on the road towards the east. The average traffic on this part of the E39 is about 7 000 vehicles per day, with about 20 pst. heavy traffic. With experience from a review of the State Road Service after the last fatal accident at E39 at Flekkefjord, the State Road Service has decided to carry out the following corrections in the current year: The outline of the route is changed so that the extra E39 runfield past Flekkefjord towards the east is shown as a launch field and not as a possible combination of runfields and pre-runfields. This section will be re-marked. Together with the new sign, this will make it clear what is the default of this distance. As part of the work of the National Transport Plan 2014–2023, the State Road Administration has started work on a concept evaluation, KVU, for E39 from Søgne in West Agder to Ålgård in Rogaland. This will also deal with the distance of E39 past Flekkefjord. No funds have been set for major actions on the route of the State Road Agency’s 2010–2013 action programme. I argued that a prioritisation of cross-sectional power stations would be assessed in the context of the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e791	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that I find it peculiar, strange and tragic that you can't generate between 3 and 4 million. kr in order to obtain concrete or other intermediate separators, which will prevent these traffic accidents. Six people killed on a stretch of 200-300 meters in ten years are very serious – it should ring a bell. I hardly think these measures are good enough. They'll probably help a little bit, but they're not good enough. Proposals for action with reference to the fields to reduce overrun will probably reduce this, but is the Council of State comfortable using only half-hearted means of action on the E39 to prevent more accidents from occurring in the future? Are the costs really going to decide whether to build it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e798	I'm comfortable with a very ambitious national transport plan. I am also comfortable with the fact that during this period separate kilometres are to be built by four-field road, and that there are 750 km by national road to be improved by mid-driving or marked containment area/mid-driving. At the same time, we must guard against believing that pitfalls alone solve all the challenges of road safety. Exploration accidents are, for example: about the same proportion of road traffic fatalities as meeting accidents. Then I am pleased that action is being taken, and I understand it so that the representative also thinks they can mean something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e805	I would like to thank you again for your answer. Action with midpoints has proved effective in many places in the country, not least in Westfold — on the death row — the number of deaths has fallen significantly. I believe what the Council of State says, that there are as many people who are killed in outbound traffic as in collisions between arriving cars, are wrong. I myself come from the powerful industry, and there it was that if there was an accident, immediate investigation was started, and as soon as there was a conclusion, action was taken. But you don't do that here. I have to ask the State Council if she thinks the regional accident analysis team has acted quickly enough; it took four months from the accident to the conclusion. So I want to ask the State Council to take the initiative for a faster accident analysis and to get the Road Administration to take action quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e816	I'm going to follow that call to the State Roads Agency to see if we can do more here to act even before. Then, in 2010, construction of 14.5 km with a mid pulley is completed. There is not so much in the big context. However, this will mean something for the sections where this is the case. Then in 2011 or 2012, one of them will start with the construction of 44.2 km of pitfalls. When the number is so small, it's because the simplest sections are already built out where it can be done. And then I think that the representative and I will be a few that it is important to keep the focus here on road safety, as the highest priority in all road work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e826	This question, from Knut Arild Hareide to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development. – The ways of politics are unanswerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e831	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment, and in his absence I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge will answer the question: ‘Electrification of road transport in Norway is a necessary tool for improving the air quality of cities. On Norwegian roads it rolls 2850 electric cars, but only a few of them are in public ownership and operation. It is a paradox that the public, which manages a very large fleet of cars, does not contribute to the increased use of electric cars through its purchasing practices. Can the Council of State explain how many electric cars are owned and operated by the public, and what will the Council of State do to increase the number of electric cars in the public sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e840	I agree with the representative Hareide that it is important that the public contributes to the increased use of the most environmentally friendly cars. The Law on Public Acquisitions specifically obliges public undertakings to take account of the environmental impact of procurement and requires purchasers to make concrete environmental requirements as far as possible. The Government's Action Plan on Environmental and Social Responsibility in Public Acquisitions provides the framework for state environmental policies for the procurement of priority product groups, including the acquisition of transport and car. Environmental policy sets out the environmental challenges and specific requirements to be met. Indicative ecological criteria for the purchase of cars with a low environmental impact have been developed under the direction of the Directorate for Administration and ICT. The purpose of the car criteria is to provide a simple tool that takes into account the environment and is well suited for use by contracting authorities in a concrete acquisition. These are criteria to be applied by purchasers throughout the country for the purchase of transport services. The criteria premium low-carbon or zero-emission cars. The assumption is that the car should be able to run on fuel available at the point of use. However, it is up to the business of buying or leasing cars to acquire an electric car. There are many aspects that need to be taken into account, including: operational safety, running distance, size, charging time and access to charging points. I would like to stress that these are the first generation criteria for the purchase of a car. The criteria are dynamic and will be strengthened as more environmentally friendly cars arrive on the market. According to Norsk Elbilforening, Norstart, there are 66 electric cars in the public sector. However, there is some uncertainty about these figures, and unfortunately we do not have accurate figures on how many of the electric cars are owned and operated by the public. Some municipalities are well advanced in the acquisition of electric cars, among others. Trondheim has the municipality of 26 electric cars in operation, and that is very positive. I want to add that 66 electric cars in the public sector are not an impressive number, and it is quite obvious that many parts of the public sector can benefit from an electric car that will provide the services they need. I think this is a matter to be followed up, and that should certainly be a topic in the local election campaign, too, because the municipalities can do a lot more in this area. And it's actually also that it's very profitable to use an electric car, because we've done a lot on the charging side: we have tax exemptions, the right to drive in collective fields, often free of charge and more accessible parking spaces – part of the action package against the financial crisis was to give extra funding to charging points for electric cars through Transnova. So it's a win-win situation. After all, electric cars will also be placed on the market with larger battery capacity, which thus does not need to be charged so often and can go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e860	I thank you for the good answer. I thought it was an offensive answer. We have to say that today's speech is too low. What we experience is that there is a lot on the charging side, as the Council of State says, and that is that the price level is relatively favourable. We know that the expansion of charging stations has been a challenge, but it has become much better in the last year. Some of the challenges facing those who own electric cars today include: that there may be too few that own electric cars in total, and that the type of functions such as service functions, becoming difficult to access. One example is that one has had a debate on this in Sogn and Fjordne in the last few days, where one actually has only seven-eight electric cars in the whole state. The challenge where no charging stations are currently loaded. It's starting to happen, and they're going to have to be in place first to buy the electric cars. But it's important that we get more public electric cars, because it will help to increase the total number.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e869	Yeah, that's right. I share that view. It is clear that if you increase the number, you will also increase the availability of many of the services that electric car users and electric car owners will need. It is quite obvious that it has an extra effect on getting a significantly larger distribution of electric cars. Here, there are really winners on all the bows and edges, if we can raise our attention around this. We, from the state side, are going to keep pressure on this, but I also want to repeat the call to make an effort locally, because these are considerable opportunities. It is clear that if the municipality uses a number of electric cars, then the municipality will also ensure that there are charging stations around, because it is useful for them. They will be customers in maintenance, etc., and thus they can actively participate in and withdraw the market on which private individuals may rely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e876	I also agree with the part of the answer that came now. A municipal electric car is just as good as a state electric car, and there's more to it. When there's only 66 out of nearly 3,000 electric cars that are public, I'm going to say that there's an overly low part, because we've had the goal that we should have 10 pst. electric cars in 2020. It is also the Minister for Transport who listens to this part of the debate. We also have major challenges when it comes to the overall climate. In this context, I will refer to Climate Change 2020, the big message that the government has promised to come in 2011. I would also say that this part should be taken care of there. If we are to achieve what we have ambitions about in the transport sector, we must, as the Council of State said here, also be willing to tighten up the guidelines, because cars are getting better and better. The council also mentions that they go further and further, and then we also have to be willing to set clearer boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e883	I think I'd like to take the Minister of Transport with me in the answer, because we have common interests and common commitment to get to this. In terms of economics in this area, we don't need any special carrots, because it's beneficial both in terms of fees and in all other ways. But getting the number up is a very important part, not only to get emission reductions, but also to get over that knucklehead to make an electric car a common precursor across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e891	Then I have a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The government is increasing the use of tolls. There will be several projects financed by tolls and the share of tolls in the amount of investment is increasing. The use of tolls has been extended to both installations and public transport operations. It also appears to be a marked increase in the use of road tolls for road safety, for pedestrian and cycle routes and for so-called environmental measures. This last one seems to be a new use of tolls. Will the Council of State impose restrictions on this and strengthen toll management and control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e900	National transport plan 2010–2019 represents a historical commitment to transport. Nevertheless, the local desire and willingness to use tolls to advance the realization of a road project further or to get a road project realized at all. I am in favour of this, but it is clear that there is a local political connection to the toll projects that are being launched for Stortinget. On several occasions, the Progress Party has been called upon to launch a public poll on toll financing. In my view, it may be difficult to ensure that all parties are heard in a defensive way through a referendum, where questions need to be considerably simplified. I believe, therefore, that the state should focus on formal decisions taken by the municipalities and county councils as a matter of law. As mentioned in St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, the total number of toll projects is not covered. The government believes that there should be a concrete assessment for each project, including: to ensure that the toll load does not become too high in the individual area. In addition, I see it as important that the projects be assessed in relation to the guidelines drawn up for toll financing, for example. the relationship between the benefit and the payment and the length of the recovery period. The administrative reform has significantly increased the responsibility of the county for the development of the public road network by reclassification of large parts of the former other national road network into county roads. This may affect the use of tolls on this road network. It has been suggested that toll projects on the county road network should also be assessed by the government and the Stortinget, in line with projects on the state road network, in order to ensure an overall assessment of the level of activity and toll burden. Tolls for road safety measures, pedestrian and cycle roads and environmental measures are within the scope of the Road Act § 27 if local policy is in favour. This has been most common within city packages and is nothing new. For example, the Trondheim package, which was adopted in 1990, includes funds for so-called KSM measures, i.e. public transport, environmental and road safety measures. The fact that the urban packages cover such measures to a greater extent, I regard them as positive. Urban areas face major environmental challenges, and there is therefore a need for action, both to reduce car traffic and to facilitate increased public and bicycle traffic. The use of tolls for such measures can contribute to the development of better and more environmentally friendly urban transport systems. The allocation of funds made available by toll companies to the state road service over the years is clarified by the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e913	At the end, the Council of State approached an answer to that question. It is not about the extent of toll and political extortion run by the government, and it is not about proposals from the Progress Party to use referendum, which is a good measure, and let people decide for themselves. But this is precisely about Section 27 of the Road Act, where Stortinget and the Ministry set conditions for the specific use of the charging funds. It's this use of the means of charging, the use of the tolls, I'm looking for the question, because we see that tolls are used for a number of purposes other than what I think the drivers experience as their primary purpose. We experience that they, among other things, used for purely urban development measures in bombing operations, to which the Council of State was concerned. This appears to be more of a general extra tax than an additional transport tax. Will not the Council of State impose any restrictions on this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e920	The President responds to the term ‘political extortion’ and hopes that it will not occur later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e923	As I said in my first answer: Using tolls for measures to reduce car traffic, which at the same time facilitate increased public and bicycle traffic, I thought I was positive. The premise of the projects submitted to the Stortinget is that these proposals should also be locally initiated, based on local decisions. I see it as my task to follow them up, where we contribute both to a better environment and to better urban development, while following up what is the local will in these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e930	Let me say that this representative has used the term 'political extortion' many times from this pulpit, with other presidents, and then it tends to go quite well. Again — conditions for the use of fiscal and fresh examples: we can take two fresh examples, because we now have two issues for treatment. One is the extension of the Bergen programme. It's almost 2.5 billion. for programme actions. 36 pst. So the whole package is used for things other than road construction. We have just received information in the joint proposal on the extension of the environmental package in Trondheim, where tolls will be increased by 90 million in 2010. kr more for toll measures, to be used for environmental measures. So two thirds of the tolls entering 2010 are going to be used for anything other than the road. Does the Council of State consider this to be a condition for the use of the fiscal means?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e939	The representative, Mr Sortevik, has then recorded that this president believes that ‘political extortion’ is a less good parliamentary concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e942	I mean the two examples mentioned here by the representative Sortevik are a very good example of the local willingness to take measures that help to make a bigger appearance, and at the same time to a better environment, to reduce car traffic and to better identify both for walking and sick people, as well as for those who need a car. Both of these two copies are locally initiated and locally agreed, and I see it as my clear task – according to the government I represent – to follow up on these kinds of proposals. My well-meaning advice for the Progress Party will be not to be so one-sidedly focused on what is demanded, but to actually focus on what is actually left of a better environment and health for small funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e952	I have the following questions: ‘The Government states in its National Transport Plan: ‘It is a priority objective to create a significantly better operating and maintenance standard on the national roads’. The maintenance maintenance run has been estimated at over 20 billion. kr and is increasing. Does the Council of State consider that the plans currently in place are sufficient to prevent further deterioration of road standards?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e961	For the period 2006-2009, the government has more than met the plan frame for the first four years of the national transport plan 2006–2015. The government has been particularly busy strengthening efforts to maintain transport infrastructure, which has been neglected over several years. The budget for the operation and maintenance of the road network was therefore markedly increased over the period 2006-2009, compared with the framework of the national transport plan 2006-2009. The National Transport Plan 2010–2019 provides for additional increases in operating and maintenance permits. The aim of the increased effort is to halt the growth in the decline of transport infrastructure. In the 2010 budget, the government is continuing a high level of activity on the operation and maintenance of the national road network. However, there has been a huge increase in the cost of operational and maintenance work in recent years, which makes it difficult to keep up a level of maintenance that stops the growth in maturity. It is therefore important to work to reduce costs while at the same time ensuring that the quality of the work is correct. The state road authority is now working to identify the reasons for the large cost increase. In addition, the EEA is working to test new forms of contract and strategies for cost-reducing measures. Let me also say that today's method of assessing the size of the maintenance seat is sealed with uncertainty. The Ministry of Transport has taken a new initiative in order to improve the methodology for assessing the maintenance of the national and county road network. The state Road Service has started this work, and it is supposed to be done in 2011. I follow developments in road operations and maintenance closely. It's my ambition to work to strengthen the maintenance, and then we first have to stop the growth of the decay on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e972	I thank you for your answer. We have just revised the national budget, where 70 million have been added. kr only to repair frost damage and damage after a strict winter. What the Council of State says is that she sticks to her goal and believes that she is on a good path towards that goal. But this is not in line with what is in her own subject matter documents. In the Swedish Road Service’s action programme, the road category is very poor — which is used as a concept. It'll increase from 8 pst. until 20 pst. during the next three years. How can this be related?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e981	This question gives me the possibility to fix an error from the Swedish Road Administration. I was told yesterday that they had just delivered an action programme that told me an increase from 8 to 20 pst. The correct number from the State Road Service page shall be 10 pst. They have also posted a correction on their web pages. Then the representative can say, "Okay, here's a raise." I can say, luckily only on 2 pst. instead of 12 pst. I shall have full use both of better methods to estimate maintenance and not least to get a review of the contract forms, which the State Road Service is now required to carry out. It's not just about allowing money, but it's actually also about making sure that the money is properly maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e990	It's obvious that there's something about the system here to verify this, which is not in place. The Committee has today had consultations with the road safety organisations. They wish to have defined binding measures for what is approved or good road, i.e. in line with requirements for vehicles, in line with requirements for drivers, etc. In addition, they will have oversight and they will have sanctioning powers. Will the Council of State listen to these organisations working for safer roads, fewer deaths on our roads, and meet them in this desire?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e999	Let me first say yes to listen. There's nothing new. I've spent quite a lot of time these months being Minister of Transport, just listening to different actors before this sector to see how I can follow up in the best possible way. For this I am also very happy that in the 2010 budget there is room for 800 new kilometers of asphalt. It means a lot to those who are busy for maintenance. So now it's going to come in the revised 70 million. kr. It's not all the world, but it actually means 100 new kilometers of asphalt. And the prices are favorable right now. So the sum there could be at least 900 kilometers of asphalt, which is important for the maintenance work. In addition to that, yes, we still need to improve the maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1009	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In 2006, the Ministry of Health and Welfare decided to investigate and test a new speciality in clinical odontology, and the assignment was given to the University of Tromsø in 2007. In the winter of 2009, the study plan was submitted to the Health Directorate and approved the same spring. The new specialist training for dental practitioners shall be financed by the Ministry of Health and Care. The rector has been appointed in half, and four qualified candidates are ready to begin specialisation. Then it turns out that funding is missing. What will the Council of State do with that?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1018	I consider the testing of a new specialty in clinical odontology at the University of Tromsø as an important measure in the general dental policy of the government. The government prioritises following up the proposals in St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, Accessibility, Competence and Social Cohesion, Future dental services. Ensuring equivalent availability of dental services, including specialist services, is important in this context. The university has done a thorough and systematic work on developing a syllabus and on preparing all the pieces that will be put in place to start up a new speciality. In the context of the 2006 mission of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, provision was made for budgetary implications to be clarified with the Ministry. A crucial element in this context was whether the testing of new speciality could be financed by redisposals within the existing framework of State funding in the dental field, or whether the costs of testing require additional appropriations. Draft overall budget for possible start-up in the autumn of 2010 was available for the Directorate-General for Health only in January 2010. In cooperation with the Ministry, the Health Directorate considered it unrealistic to finance the start-up of the specialist training in question through redispatching in the current year. In the meeting between the University of Tromsø, the County Municipality of Tromsø, the Health Directorate and the Ministry of Health and Welfare on 7 May this year, it was concluded that the responsible actors in Tromsø are continuing to plan for start-up in 2011. The Directorate for Health, in cooperation with the Ministry, will assess possible redeployments for 2011 in order to ensure funding in accordance with a budget approved by the Directorate. The Health Directorate maintains formal communication with the University of Tromsø and with the Municipality of Troms. The Tromsø communities will receive feedback that will provide a realistic planning process until the start of testing the new speciality. I look forward to the new speciality being tested, and I understand that many county municipalities are interested in the results of this test.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1031	This is indeed a strange matter, because it has been working on the matter for years. The answer now given by the Council of State suggests that there is a great lack of communication between the Directorate of Health and the Department. According to those who work with this in Tromsø, there has never been any doubt that the funds would be put in place. You had to start this harvest in two or three months. The candidates are listed, they are ready, and they are suggested to start their education. The professional responsible is added. And then you kind of get waved off at the last turn -- when you see the finish line there. Now it is said that it is totally unrealistic to start for the harvest. But according to a crisis meeting in the Health Directorate last Friday, the directorate, if you get a clarification from the Council of State on 1 June, will be able to submit that education starts on 1 January 2011. Will the government give it the clear signal to the directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1038	I mean, that's what I actually said now, that it was in the momentum. Then I want to say that it was the University itself that approved the launch of specialist training in the autumn of 2010, provided that the project was fully funded in three years. So it turns out that the frame you'd taken into account didn't hold. It became more expensive than what was assumed, and it may be some reason why it is now exposed. This is also the case with the Health Directorate getting the plans only in January. This is a positive project, and it's important that it comes into place. So now we're working to make it work from 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1045	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She shows herself both to St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007 and the importance of also focusing on upgrading dental competence. Dental training in Tromsø is the country's newest, and it is perhaps also the country's most modern. It is clear that they are both interested in contributing and in meeting the objectives set out in the dental communication. Then I interpret the council so that the directorate could give the answer to Tromsø that you most want – that you can now plan and suggest to the candidates that they are students from 1 January 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1052	That's the goal. I just want to stress that in the autumn of 2009, the Health Directorate was suggested a cost of 1.5 million. kr, but in January of this year, the directorate received a revised budget, with a cost of 5 million. kr for 2010. This increase of 3.5 million. I did not find any room for the current year. That's why it wasn't started from the harvest. What's now the goal, and as I've said here several times now, is that we're going to get started from 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1068	The question has been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1074	‘In many countries, the development of unconventional oil and gas resources is actively pursued. This development makes it possible, for example: The US expects to be independent of imported gas. Oil sand and shale gas are today's leading non-conventional sources of petroleum, but shale oil, gas in coal reserves and gas hydrates are considered promising. If evolution goes so far as many believe, these resources will change the global energy picture. What is Norway doing to investigate non-conventional petroleum resources in the Norwegian territory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1081	Of non-conventional petroleum resources in Norway, shale gas and gas hydrates are most likely to be addressed here. Of these, gas hydrates are the most common in Norway. Some monitoring of the gaseous hydrates has been carried out on the Norwegian base. The main occurrences appear to be around Svalbard, and in the northern Barents Sea as well as on the central Norwegian pedestal. There is considerable uncertainty and high costs related to the extraction of gas hydrates, and significant technological developments are needed if they are to be commercially produced in Norway. So far, only two gas hydrate projects are realized around the world, one in Alaska and one in Japan. Both have relatively small production. The PETROMAKS programme in the Norwegian Research Council supports two projects studying gas hydrates. One maps gas hydrates in the areas around the Barents Sea and Svalbard, and the other looks at the possibilities of using CO2 to produce gaseous hydrates. Oil and gas in the 21st century, OG21, is a strategic body for oil and gas research, designated by the OED, consisting of representatives of industry and academia. OG21 has not identified unconventional resources that an area in Norway should give priority to research and technology development. In the case of shale gas, there has been no systematic review of the potential for this on Norwegian base, but we are closely following developments internationally. The oil directorate is, among other things, in an international project, ‘Gas Shales in Europe’, which aims to identify the shale gas potential in Europe. In the case of shale gas, the environmental aspects are so extensive and challenging that offshore operations will be very costly. In addition, very small production volumes require many wells. If the shale gas is to be profitable to extract, infrastructure and drilling equipment must already be installed. Therefore, shale gas production on Norwegian base is currently most relevant as an additional resource related to gas blasting from older oil fields. The geological assumptions for shale gas on land do not appear to be present in Norway and are therefore not relevant in this context. The reason why unconventional gas resources have not been reviewed to a greater extent in Norway is that we currently have large conventional resources that will last for decades to come, and that we still have a strong focus on finding more of these resources, as the Storting debated quite a lot yesterday. In addition, the technology challenges, costs and environmental aspects of the extraction of unconventional petroleum resources remain so significant that it would not be appropriate to extract them on a Norwegian base within a reasonable planning horizon now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1099	I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State gave yesterday, which he confirms today, that we aim to extract a lot of oil and gas in the future. It's important to establish. At the same time, we know that there are challenges on Norwegian soil. Even the oil director's projections show that we're likely to have a decline in output compared to today's level. Now today's level is joyously high, so it might not be unexpected like that. But Norwegian socket has been known as a laboratory for the oil industry. In view of having long-term prospects, we know that the EU regards gas as part of its climate change solution. We know that shale gas is being used in the United States and the EU, and some of the things you quickly found out when you worked on a Norwegian base in the 1960s and 1970s were that there was a large amount of coal under the seabed. Many expect not only shale gas and gas hydrates but also coal gas to have a high potential in the future. This is about both technology and technology development. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1104	It is true, as the representative says, that there are significant coal deposits on a Norwegian base which are at least theoretically feasible to apply through different technological solutions. But what we're currently seeing is that these are demanding processes to get started, and that today's technology also has major environmental challenges. But we see in the rest of the world that the use of the coal-gas combination is unfortunately some of the accidents associated with it. It's known. So that's right, as the representative says, there's been evidence of such resources here on the Norwegian base, but so far we haven't considered it relevant to do more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1111	Can the Council of State nevertheless give a signal as to what kind of attitude the government has if a foreign company, or a Norwegian company, comes and believes that they have found technology that makes it possible to extract shale gas at sea, or drilling for gas deposits in coal? Gas hydrates I think are so demanding that we shouldn't think something is happening there in the first few years. Will the Council of State be positive that someone at his own expense and at his own risk can do so on a Norwegian base, or is he skeptical?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1118	If energy production can take place within a good and secure environmental framework, and take into account the climate challenges surrounding it, I am in favour of initiatives to exploit resources on a Norwegian base. I believe that the reality today is that the type of project is a bit away, but I perceive the representative's questions as more a theoretical question in relation to a given situation, and then it is important for me to get into the environmental and climate aspects of such a possible project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1128	«A future new hospital building for Norway's veterinary high school is planned to be established at Ås in line with Innst. S. No 176 for 2007-2008, in an area of small and declining livestock production. The students’ access to active livestock and aquaculture is to be considered as a determining factor in adequate clinical education. State councils will initiate an alternative location of the clinic building to areas of the country where it is actually an active animal husbandry, such as: Sandnes in Rogaland?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1135	In line with the government's recommendation in St.prp. No 30 for 2007-2008 and the accession of Stortinget to this 7 April 2008 the Norwegian veterinary college shall be located at Ås and organised together with the University of Environment and Life Sciences. An interim board has issued its report called the new University of Campus Ås, and a joint board has now been appointed by the Ministry of Knowledge with Finn Bergesen Jr. as Chairman of the Board. It is underlined by the Stortinget, the Government, the Interim Board and the Joint Board that the Department of the Veterinary College of Sandnes, owned by the Information Society Fund, currently operated by the Norwegian veterinary college, will be further developed and strengthened in connection with the establishment of the new university. Norway’s veterinary college sees the department of Sandnes as a central offer to differentiation students in food safety and veterinary medicine, two different types of study that will be merged to strengthen education. The work on this is already well under way. In the differentiation section of the study, the scientific community at Sandnes will represent a particularly valuable resource. The offer of training for Sandnes is now expanded to include two new posts, from small ruminants to field-oriented activities in the field of preventive veterinary medicine and herd hygiene. Norway’s veterinary high school estimates that there are currently sufficient numbers of farmed animals in the Eastern region to make a good educational offer at the level to be filled by the manufacturing animal clinic at Ås. In addition, teaching in clinics is a central and integrated part of the teaching which would be very inappropriate to share in several places of study. Synergies between the veterinary medical disciplines at the Norwegian veterinary college and the animal sciences at the University of Environment and Life Sciences were also an important argument for moving Norway's veterinary college to Ås, and a division of these professional environments has not been considered appropriate by the professional community, either at a location on Sandnes or in any other part of the country. Today, there are not purely clinical facilities at Sandnes, but an offer for the autopsy of dead animals in cooperation with the Veterinary Institute. It has not been assessed to add clinic facilities beyond this to Sandnes. On the other hand, strengthening the existing professional environments at Sandnes will be important for the development of the new University of Ås.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1152	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to stress that the Right is concerned that our veterinary students should have a high level of competence and good knowledge. And, as I said, the clinic section is considered to be quite crucial in this study. We believe that this is through good contact with practical livestock farming students can get enough teaching material, whether it concerns disease, breeding, ethics, animal protection issues or knowledge of the entire food production chain. Does the Council of State think that these elements are adequately emphasised in the decision to establish the national hospital of the animals, such as this clinic must be said to be, in an area of the land with low, and declining livestock husbandry? And: does the Council of State consider it satisfactory that patients, i.e. the sick animals, must be transported to some large distances with a derogation from the Food Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1161	I would like to stress that the new university that is developing at Ås is a very demanding, but also very important project, both for the existing university and for the Veterinary College that is going there. We have now had an impact assessment – KS1, as it is called – that underlies the discussions in connection with the new university. There has never been an alternative that there should be clinic building on Sandnes. But Sandnes has a big role to play. It was one of the prerequisites for the whole establishment that Sandnes was to be involved as an important part of the student education offer, precisely because, as the representative says, there are more livestock in that area than there is in the east. At the same time, as I said in the answer, it has been assessed by the professional community that there is enough livestock in the eastern part of the country for such a clinic to function there. But I would like to stress that it is absolutely essential to have good contact with Sandnes in terms of animals, and with other environments in terms of fish, in relation to the new university.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1170	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is positive that the Council of State underlines what was in the proposal from the government on the further development of the Sandnes environment, and I notice that the Council of State also says that it is not only a further development but also a strengthening of the Sandnes environment. Now it is likely that it will take some years before the move of Norway’s veterinary high school is completed, and the need for a new clinic building is quite urgent. Are these arguments that might make the Council of State think new thoughts about the location of the clinic building?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1179	I expect the representative to know these impact assessment processes so well that she knows that changing the assumptions for that process now would be going back in time for the progress we have. That there is a need for a clinic building is absolutely right. That it is planned at Ås is also quite correct, and that it is professionally sound, I believe that I have absolutely justified in this answer. But that does not mean that the Sandnes environment is not important for the training of future veterinarians, and that the environment on Sandnes, especially with small ruminants, sheep and goats, is an important part of that educational system. So it'll be taken care of. It will be strengthened and developed, and it will be a very central part of the curriculum for future students.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1186	Question 10 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1192	‘Nord-Norsk Finishedplen AS has applied to the Food Authority for a derogation to import 500 kg of grass seed. The seed applied for is produced in Alaska. The company that supplies pre-grass in North Norway needs a grass seed that is more wintery and hardy, and therefore better suited for grass production north of the Arctic Circle. Will the Council of State help Nord-Norwegian Finish to import the grass seeds they need, so that they are able to deliver the finished plaza also north of the Arctic Circle?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1199	The representative, Mr Tåldal's question, highlights an important theme, namely the development of plant varieties adapted to the highly varied conditions we have in our long-term country. Grass-based production is a supporter of Norwegian agriculture and a prerequisite for developing sustainable agriculture throughout the country. The work of finding new and better varieties adapted to our growing conditions is a priority task. Substantial efforts are being made in the development of varieties in order to obtain appropriate engross crops adapted to northern conditions. The objective is clear: sustainable plant production throughout the country. In the case of lawn seed, we already have seed varieties that are suitable for fine lawns also north of the Arctic Circle. However, seeds for use in lawns are covered by the same seed legislation as seeds for agricultural use. The legislation shall ensure that seeds imported and placed on the market are of satisfactory quality and comply with plant health requirements. Therefore, it is important to carefully evaluate each individual import application, as one has in this case. In the case in question, the Regional Office of the Danish Food Safety Authority has rejected the application for import. The decision was appealed on 26 April of this year, and the complaint is now under consideration in the Food Safety Authority. I rely on the Food Safety Authority to make a robust review in connection with the review process. I leave the professional assessments to the Food Safety Authority and have no plans to directly involve me in the further handling of the matter by the Food Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1208	It's called Nugget and it's from Alaska. It's a grass seed that can withstand arctic strokes. It is also a grass seed that has been used in the past by the same company. The Food Authority says no because this is not on the EU list. My question to the Minister is: is it necessary to follow the EU list? Can the Food Safety Authority disregard the EU and open for imports of 500 kg of grass seed from Alaska?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1215	As underlined in my previous article, we are today providing support for plant processing. We are working on the development of species of eggplants in order to obtain good crops adapted to farming north of the country. It's an important piece of Graminor's work on plant processing. In this case, the matter is now for review by the Food Safety Authority. According to standard practice, it is necessary for the Food Safety Authority to deal with this matter without any kind of political influence. It is important that we put professional views at the bottom of such assessments, and I am sure that the Food Safety Authority will do so. In general terms, I can stress that lawn seed marketed in Norway has been imported to a large extent. Of course, the Food Safety Authority will assess this matter in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1224	If one ignores this particular matter of appeals, does the Council of States believe that it is right to follow what is on the EU list? Should not Norway, as a nation, be able to decide for itself whether to import something, not use the EU, but use its own beliefs and competences? When this seed has previously been imported and used for a longer period of time, why should you say no now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1229	As I said, the case is for the handling of complaints, and I believe that this should be done in accordance with normal procedures. With regard to the issue raised here by Tåldal, whether we should follow an international regulatory framework at the bottom of the EU, this is done in Norway in a number of areas – agriculture, animal welfare and in this case as well. I would just like to stress that the Food Authority must deal with these rules in accordance with the legislation, the law that we have in Norway. I assume, of course, that it will be done. In this case, the question is whether alternatives can be found if they are not allowed to be imported. There are good alternatives. But as I said, the matter is not yet settled. Food surveillance needs to be given the opportunity to carry out a reasonable treatment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1241	«Research is important and, unfortunately, research funds are too small. It is an objective that we should spend more money on research both in the private and public sectors. I read at research.no that we have used public research funds to find out that the cows can be bad with each other. The research report concludes that the cows are being bullied at their place of work to reduce milk production. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper use of public research resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1250	The project on which the article is referred is based is a large, multi-annual cooperation project between the University of Environment and Life Sciences, the Norwegian veterinary college, the Nord-Trøndelag University and TINE, and it has the title ‘Solution for milk production in cows’. It has continued since the autumn of 2005 and ends in the autumn of 2010. The main purpose of this project is to find solutions for new operational buildings which are both economically sound, ensure good production conditions for each milk producer and which are also animal friendly. Both the industry and the research community are behind the project, which is important to provide useful and applied knowledge of economic and animal welfare. In other words, the project has a high relevance to industry and not least to animal production challenges in Norway in the future. All in all, it's set at 16 million. kr for the project, where the Research Council's Food Programme stands for 15 pst. of the financing. The remainder is financed by the industry's own resources through the Agricultural Agreement Research Fee Fund for Agricultural Products and Research Funds. In other words, the industry stands for 85 pst. of the financing. The decision of the size in the context of the Animal Welfare Act and the regulations on the requirements for unbundling in milk production is at the bottom of this major effort. The new Animal Welfare Act entered into force on 1 January 2010. Basic principles are animal self-value and legislation must be based on new knowledge. In St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003 On animal husbandry and animal welfare, it is concluded that good production alone is not an indicator that all animal needs have been met. Loose farming requirements have been introduced to improve animal welfare in milk production. However, the design of unoccupied poultry will have an impact on animal welfare. As a flock animal, cows have a distinct ranking, which can lead to stress and influence animal welfare. However, proper design of the feathers may help to reduce this. We therefore need new knowledge both to find simple measures where there is no idle operation and to design new operating systems based on idle operation. Research has shown that the type of poultry has an impact on the production and health of cows, but the results are not clear. Large differences have been found in milk production depending on the behaviour of the cows in the poultry and, according to the research, loosing poultry can be linked to better fertility, fewer spinal cord injury, less ketosis, no clear differences in animal health and the higher incidence of claw and bone disorders versus pelvic pelvis. Studies in the EU have shown that the investment in bed mats in laying hens actually pays back in one year, both because it can lead to increased milk production and because it reduces the damage to the cows' legs and death. These include: such conditions taken into account by that Article. For example, the article shows that dairy cows where there is only one so-called dead end, or where there are roundabouts for cows, milk well over 1 litre more in the day than cows from poultry with several blind spots. This is, of course, relevant research which can have a direct impact on each producer. Investment in operational buildings is the largest investment made on a farm, and it binds resources for 20 years to come. It is therefore of great importance to finance research that can provide some answers to the complex contexts to be satisfied when dairy cows are to have both high performance and a good environment, while keeping costs as low as possible and ensuring a good and not least less dangerous working environment for the farmer. Research on animal welfare is central to building skills so that the real links between welfare and production can be seen. This is necessary in order to implement practical measures that have an impact. In the EU, centres of excellence are established to pool their competences in this area. And it has been suggested that this development should take place on the basis of knowledge, on the basis of research. Nor should we forget the end-user of agricultural products, the consumer – you and me – who has a strong desire that the production of food is ethically sound and based on high animal welfare. Norway has a competitive advantage here. The title of the article on research.no, to which the representative of Tjäldal refers, is top-notch in journalism – that's right. However, the point is clearly of animal welfare interest. Milk production, which is a carrier in Norwegian agriculture, cannot be known to have a production system that does not take animal welfare into account. This research, therefore, tries to see the economy and welfare of animals in the context and contributes to responding to important challenges facing industry. I hope that the representative Treldal on his question does not ridicule measures to improve animal welfare. I don't see it that way either, but there is a danger that it might be perceived this way. Good animal welfare is important, not only to improve the quality of life of animals, but also because it can lead to increased positive economic exclusion for the producer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1269	I can tell the council that it's not to make fun of, but it's to look at what you have about framework conditions, and what's happening in agriculture. What I could imagine asking the Council of State after hearing the answer is, when you spend 16 million. If you want to do research on this, you can expect that you will prepare a regulation, that it lies in the system of how the feathers are supposed to look, that there are escape routes for bullying cows, so that they can get out, so as to require escape routes in the event of fire, etc.? Is it clear that the State intends to grant investment grants to follow these guidelines, and is it going to set out framework conditions to help the farmer possibly improve the poultry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1274	I am pleased that the representative, Mr. Träldal, stresses that this is not to make fun of, because it is a big project. It is also right to question the usefulness of research – I agree with that, it is generally important to have a debate on these types of projects. In this case, it is an important project. It has already been shown that, through different adaptations to the production environment for domestic cows, by adaptations to the structure of the poultry and the equipment in the poultry, a better result can be achieved. In this sense, it is important for the manufacturer and it is important for animal welfare. Whether or not this will result in amended regulations, whether or not it will result in a change in the view of investment grants granted to poultry-building to a certain extent, it is too early to respond to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1282	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘With the long and cold winter 2009–2010 fresh in memory, many can thank the manufacturers for a good indoor temperature. However, many forest producers are economically struggling and believe that their industry has a lower framework than other heat producers, such as the Netherlands. electricity, heat pumps and pellet furnaces. Does the Council of State see this difference?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1291	As the representative Per Roar Bredvold points out, the long, stable, old-fashioned winter – this cold period that we have had in the last winter – has really shown the value of having a fireplace in homes and the good qualities of heating, both for those who use it as a main source of heat, and for those who use it as a top load. Reheating is simple, cheap and climate friendly. Combustion with wood for space heating in dwellings accounts for about half of all bioenergy use in Norway, around 6 TWh per year. About 80 pst. of the households in the country have a wood stove. By-production is also an important complementary activity for many farmers and forest owners. On-farm production contributes to complementing the working time available on Norwegian farms, and efforts are largely based on farm machinery and resources. In other words, it is often a meaningful and cost-effective way of exploiting the resources of agricultural property. Very many forest producers collect most of the raw material from their own forest, which also contributes positively to the cultural landscape and provides short-range energy. I believe that wood production provides a good basis for profitable operations. If we look at the price per kilowatt hour, we give a significantly higher payment capacity to the raw material manufacturer compared, for example. with a tile. Tile is paid with about 12-15 cents/kWh, while at 45-65 cents/kWh. Thus, the production and sale of wood gives producers greater value because they follow wood far into the value chain – often right up to the consumer. Furthermore, there is a significant number of actors that establish post-production and sales based on purchased works. I guess they wouldn't do this without some profitability. I will describe the market as a mature market, although there is also room for efficiency and further development here, which can further improve the profitability of producers. I do not share the image of the representative, Bredvold, that the timber producers are generally struggling with poor profitability. In 2009, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food established a scheme to support the extraction of forest raw materials for bioenergy. The background for this is that the supply of raw material for bioenergy, mainly forest chips, is a bottleneck in the government's bioenergy investment. The tile market shall cover other market segments than wood. And if we're going to reach the government's goal of increasing bioenergy expansion by plus 14 TWh by 2020, we need large volumes of tile. To date, the forest chips market has been characterised by low profitability. At an early stage, I therefore believe that additional measures are needed to stimulate increased tile production – to make this market go up. Within the limited framework of this scheme, it is neither desirable nor appropriate to include aid for the production of wood as long as the production of wood is profitable. At the same time, I would like to point out that under the Bioenergy programme, which is the second of two major instruments in the bioenergy policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, investment aid for wood boilers is granted in line with investment aid for tile boilers. Finally, it is also important to point out that income from resale may be included in the so-called agricultural deduction. If the keeper has agricultural income, it allows for greater tax deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1306	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which maybe not exactly the producers will call a positive answer, but it was a statement and information about different things when it comes to this with heating. Now I guess I'm not the one who thinks we should give support, but there are a lot of ways you can do much better with the framework conditions, and you can also do things more positive. It may be enough for the Council of State to speak positively about refuelling. There might be different ways to organize this. It may be a plan for the percentage to be met in Norway. There may be a little bit about the cultural landscape and a lot of these things that I see can be done. Some years ago, support was given to those who wanted to buy pellet stoves and thus heat up their houses or their buildings. But there are 800,000 old wood stoves in Norway. Maybe it could be something?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1313	I share Mr. Bredvold's view of the positive effect of heating, in the context of landscape care and, not least, in creating profitability for those who produce and sell it in a market. This is an unregulated market and it is clear to the forest producers to take advantage of the opportunities it offers. It's good for agriculture, it's good for forest producers. The representative then refers to Enova’s household support scheme, which currently supports investment in pellet stoves and pellet boilers. Support is also provided for heat pumps that draw heat from liquid to water, or from air to water, and support is provided for heat management systems and collectors. Now it is within another department's work area, but one has assessed it so that the profitability of wood production was such that it was not necessary to stimulate extra incentives for this replacement of wood stoves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1322	I thank the Council of State for a new response, which I interpret a little bit more positively. But I think it's a little strange now – and I hope the Council of State also agrees – that when we live in the middle of the forest, to say the same, we import at the same time from other countries, from Eastern Europe, while our cultural landscape grows again. Then I think it would have been useful to get something more positive out of this with wood production – as I said – not that you should get some financial support or something like that beyond what the other gets, that's not what I'm saying, but that there should be a little more equality. This with the pellet stoves was probably not exactly the great success, as I understood it. Now, when you look at the environment -- when we're inside it -- it probably contaminates a new wood stove, so to speak, nothing compared to an old wood stove, plus that it gives much more heat. So what I want the Council of State to do is to get wood production up to an even higher level, so that more people can use it – that you think a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1331	I will be the first to say that wood production and use are particularly important also because it means that we contribute to the achievement of the Bioenergy Programme's objectives on energy production. In many contexts, I participate in different meetings and give different lectures, focusing on the importance of wood, both economically and in the cultural landscape. So I'm going to promise the representative of Bredvold that I'll continue to do that, because it's very important. In the case of aid schemes, I fully agree with the representative of Bredvold that there is no point in providing support for profitable production, nor in replacing wood stoves. We can do it ourselves, and it's good, because it's also profitable for us to use that wood and use this wood stove.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1338	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-12.ana.ud47e1351	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
