ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e79	Three permit applications are available: on the sick leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 27 May onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on sick leave of the representative Tore Hagebakken from 27 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Dagfinn Højbräten on leave Thursday 27 May to attend a conference with Russian and Nordic parliamentarians under the direction of the Nordic Council of Bergen On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For the State of Oppland: Espen Granberg Johnsen For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e122	Torkil Åmland, Espen Granberg Johnsen and Kjell Arvid Svendsen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Höglund, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e127	On behalf of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to make two representations – one on the Norwegian budget strategy for assistance to the UN and one on anti-corruption and transparency in aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e132	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1–4 on today’s map has been fully debated, and then total voting after case no. 5-9 at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e150	This is a proposal that Stortinget has debated many times. It's a programming obligation, I think, for SV to promote the proposal to convert our monarchy into a republic. The proposal will, I think we can already establish, once again be rejected. As the President referred to at the outset, the proposal, if adopted, involves amendments to more than 50 constitutional paragraphs. Thus, when a unanimous committee can conclude that the proposal represents a fundamental breach of the Norwegian state form, it is not to be taken for granted. The fundamental arguments of the Socialist Left for the Republic, I am sure that they themselves will explain. However, it is clear to the majority that we believe that the state-style and state-form we have today is the best. The monarchy has widespread uprisings in the Norwegian people. When we had a referendum on whether we should continue to have monarchy, over 100 years ago, it was about. 79 pst. who voted for the monarchy and 21 pst. who voted against. If we look at the last poll that the NRK has taken up, as late as April this year, it's about. 70 pst. who still want the monarchy in our country. I think that is not only a connection to the statehood as such, but also a tribute to the way our royal family performs its duties. So you could say, is that what is going to determine our position in such an important matter of principle? That can be discussed, and I have a strong sense of some of what the SV is proposing, namely that it is not a position that should be inherited in a democracy like the Norwegian one. It should also be mentioned that it is indeed the Norwegian people who, through a referendum, i.e. through democratic instruments, have chosen the statehood we have. I am also pleased that SV says that if it were to be discussed to change our state, it would happen in a previous referendum. In connection with the measurement I referred to, the king is asked by the NRK – and it is not so often he answers that kind of question – whether Norway needs the royal house in the future. ‘Does Norway need it in the hundreds of years that have passed?’ asks King Harald back. And then he says, ‘I think the answer is yes, in fact. I think it has been an advantage for Norway that it has been a royal house. It was definitely an advantage in the first few years. It is especially in times of crisis that it becomes relevant. Now we're going to hope that Norway doesn't have any times of crisis, but it's in difficult times that people gather about that kind of thing. Then it may be good that it is there." The Crown Prince also contributes with wise reflections, in my opinion: ‘At least it can be good in a time of a lot of switches and a great flow of information, from around the world, and how maybe life feels a little volatile for many, so it can be okay with something that has continuity and that is a little firm.’ I think it actually sums up how many in our country feel about the question of monarchy. Now we have 17 May right behind us. I have to confess that it would not exactly be a great uprising for me to look up to the castle balcony and, if necessary, to pay tribute to a Minister of State for Foreign Affairs or a Minister of State, as SV says as a possible alternative to the state custom we have today. It is possible it would have been nice for Erik Lahnstein or Ingrid Fisaa. I'm not so sure it would have been so satisfactory for many others. It brings me to the fact that I think the proposal is very poorly thought out. If you first think about introducing a republic, I would have – and I have to be honest enough to say – expected a more reworked proposal. If we were to take the proposal seriously, it is adopted here today, because Norway is in principle a republic. At the same time, the SV themselves say that they want to hear the people, that there should be a referendum to decide whether to become a republic or not. The normal procedure must then be that SV rather suggests that we present this to the people, that we have a referendum. Should it give a majority of republics, the time would have come to propose amendments to more than 50 paragraphs of the Constitution. I don't think the steady Northman every day thinks in principle about whether we're going to have the Republic or the monarchy. I think it will be a personal reflection that the future of the monarchy will largely be determined by those who hold the highest position in our country. As rooted as the monarchy has been in the last 100 years, and has become, it is not least because of the way the royal house has worked in our country. I think that will still be crucial as to whether there is a solid uprising about the monarchy in Norway. On this basis, I recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e184	Of course, when the Storting discusses Norway's state form, it is a very serious and important matter, because the organization of state form provides the basis for the functionality of our society. I think it's a reality that there's very few in the population, and maybe, I'm told, no one in the Norwegian Magnificent who on a principle believes that it's right that the state's access to power should come through inheritance. I don't hear anybody say that. The broad agreement is that it is the democratic processes based on what we call secret and free elections, which should be the basis for the exercise of power, as the proposers say in their justification for their proposals. The whole social-democratic idea of the model of society in Norway is precisely based on that. In Norway's modern history, our cultural, social and economic development is based on democratic governance. A well-organised and living democracy is a prerequisite for a stable and humanistic society. In the historical perspective, we know that there has been a lot of resistance, but today we can say that everyone basically agrees on this. The second historical perspective is the development of the Norwegian monarchy. The monarchy and a living, representative government have evolved together to become a stable form of government in Norway, which is now a great uprising in the people. This development has taken place because, as the President-in-Office said, the king has administered his power wisely and loyally shown respect for the Storting and the real right of government to rule society. On the other hand, the elected bodies have respected the importance of kingship, as a stabilising factor with a positive impact on Norwegian society. The monarchy as a state form has a very long history in Norway. Our kings are closely attached to how we speak and think about Norway’s history – even in modern times. Following the Union resolution in 1905, the people confirmed by referendum that it wanted Norway to remain a kingdom. Our choice of king turned out to be lucky. We cannot mention Norway during World War II without the important role of King Haakon VII. The First Government of the Workers' Party was established as a result of the democratic desire of the same King that the Workers' Party should form a government. He played an important role. Our royal house, as it has been administered, has been the royal house of the whole people. Both King Olav, and later King Harald, have followed in his father's footsteps and his grandfather's footsteps, and the Norwegian people end up across the monarchy – in fact to an even greater extent than before. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, as is clear from the position, if, once in the future, it would be appropriate to change the form of government, the public must be presented with an advisory referendum before the Stortinget then discusses the matter as necessary. Like the rapporteur, I would finally like to point out that the proposers propose that if the Stortinge joins the proposal today, the king will be removed with immediate effect. That, of course, is very dramatic. That is why I am saying it this way: it is the Workers' Party's view that we do not believe that such a proposal should be supported even if you are in principle a member of the Republic, because it would not be possible to deal with the consequences of such a proposal in a serious and correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e201	Things take time. I take up the proposal, so I won't forget it! The cleaning of Mongstad seems to take a while. It takes time to introduce a republic. We have proposed this since 1968 – for 42 years. We believe that once Parliament comes to its senses even when it comes to the principle of principle that this proposal has. I just have to stay a little bit longer with that time. In the 1970s when SV proposed kindergarten reform and kindergarten to everyone, we were ridiculed. We are not ridiculed today in that matter, and we are not ridiculed in the monarchy question either. The problem with the plural here is that they do well to depart from the plural. They do well to avoid that one has positions of power in our democracy where one is born to this. What kind of principle is that? Why, then, is it not the case in the other parties here on Stortinget that the party leader is the boss, and the next generation of party leaders come from the same family? That's what's the principle. A well instead of looking at it like this: we have sympathy for the proposal. There are a lot of big business representatives who come to me and say that they are quite a few in the proposal. They think it is fundamentally wrong that a person should inherit a position in a democratic system in Norway. It has nothing to do with democracy. I found the majority in this room having a problem when they say that yes, in principle they are so that one should not inherit positions in democracy, but then they vote down a proposal that tries to satisfy the fundamental question here. Then you can see it from the family to the king's side. If you're born in a royal family, it's not initially so that Haakon can go to Harald and Sonja and say, "You, I want to be a railway director instead." No, you're going to be king, you! You have no option. The principle of freedom for people most does not apply to the one who is born in a royal house. He is forced into a position that is particularly demanding, absolutely certain – not least with today's media stress. Then I have to support them. In my May 17th speech on Sand in Ryfylke, I thank the king, me. The King is a nice guy – Eelreit, I will say! He saved me once, on the first king's dinner I was at, when I went out and smoked twice. I thought it was allowed. Then it turned out that the president was of a different opinion. The president came and hurled at me and said that there was no one who had stood up before the king of 100 years. The kangaroo! I've never had so much talk before – and I've had so much talk! But then Harald and Sonja came to me afterwards – Harald smoked properly at this time – and said: Langeland, we thought you were sick, but you were just smoking sick! Thus he had taken some of the air from the staging president's snuffing on me. But if the king is an egalitarian guy, that doesn't mean that one shouldn't stick to the principle of this, that one should inherit that position in Norwegian democracy. History as Kolberg describes the meaning of the king is quite right. But as we move down on the principle, the plurals have a problem here. They should, in clearer order, explain why they still believe that inheritance is a good principle in Norwegian democracy. ‘Freedom, Equality and Brotherhood’ was called in 1789 in the French Revolution. I think we should think a little about those words when it comes to the model we have in our democracy – «freedom, equality and brotherhood» – both for the royal family and for Norwegian democracy. So finally, 105 years ago, the Norwegian people said yes to the kingdom. I think it would therefore be natural, if it had become multiple in order to decide to introduce the Republic here today, that the Norwegian people got their opinion. I am not convinced that the mood is such that we would have had multiples for our proposal, but then one had received a democratic test of the form of government one has today, which is inherited. I think it's a good idea for Norway to modernise Grundlova from 1814 in 2014. I would like to have the majority with me on the imported Republic when the Constitution has a 200th anniversary in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e227	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e232	It could be tempting – since the representative of Langeland began to say that cleaning in Mongstad takes time – to say that it is also expected that the introduction of the Republic will take time, and to ask: What does he think first? But of course I'm not going to use this opportunity for that. On the other hand, I must point out that there is no logical flaw in the majority. The majority have clearly said that today's state-style is supported. With regard to the democratic aspect, which Langeland raised, it was affected both by me and by Kolberg, namely that the people have chosen this statehood and confirmed it by a large majority. So my question is, if SV has the principle view that republics are to be introduced and still want referendums and if that referendum shows a majority for kingship – what is SV going to do with its principal place of stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e239	I replied to that in my article. I said that the kingdom was established by a referendum in 1905. So I said that SV wants a referendum on one to introduce the republic. It is obvious that when one succeeds in that referendum, it is the people who decide this – as opposed to the Christian People's Party, who here use archaic methods in relation to democracy, when one thinks that one should inherit these positions. SV would like to strengthen democracy by saying that the majority of people are going to say something about it after Parliament may have voted in favour of the SV's proposal. That's what I think I'm democratically right. I also understood what the replicator said in his post, that he has great sympathy for the principle, but a well not to stand out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e244	Just to clarify, I'm a follower of the monarchy. I said I had sympathy for the arguments being put forward. It is interesting that SV now says that they are in principle for the Republic and believe that it is right, but they – I understand – want a referendum that finally clarifies it. It should not just be an advisory referendum. SV will bow to the result and move from its principal position if the majority of the people still want monarchy – is that understood correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e249	Then I can repeat myself once again: the kingdom was established 105 years ago by a referendum. The Kingdom shall adjourn, where appropriate, by a referendum, in which the plurality in Norway decides whether to have it or not. Was it clear to the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e254	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e259	I'm now a little bit in doubt about what SV really means, because what Langeland says is that SV is in favour of referendums if you want to wind up the monarchy and introduce the republic as a form of government. So that means that the result of the referendum will be decisive – right? But that's not what we're going to vote on today, is it? The immediate consequence of the constitutional proposal that is being voted on is that tomorrow or in the afternoon today we actually have Republican governance. I don't know if Langeland can figure out what it is that SV is actually in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e265	That's what I've said several times: we're going in for the Republic. But we also agree that it is the Norwegian people who are going to decide whether it is going to be republic through a referendum, just as the kingdom in its time was established by means of a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e270	Then I have a very short proposal: does it mean that SV draws the Constitutional proposal that is to be voted on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e275	No, that doesn't mean that. SV suggests this proposal, which we have made since 1968, because we want – clearly in contrast to Nybakk – to have a system in democracy Norway where one does not inherit settings because of the family one is born into, but there a well-known people to be president and head of the Norwegian state. That principle I think is a good principle. And we know that there are more in the party that Nybakk represents, which is bigger than SV in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e280	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e283	The right supports the vote by the majority of the committee. Let's do it with enthusiasm. Inspired by not exactly enthusiasm, but seriously, in Martin Kolberg's posts it might also be tempting to start on a historical basis for the monarchy. However, I will do that very briefly, because this matter is really about trying to clean up SV's marking needs, or to clean up SV's thoughts. So what's available is not a constitutional proposal based on Langeland's ideas, but it's a constitutional proposal that makes the Republic go right ahead, and then we're going to vote for the republic or kingdom afterwards. More illogical, actually, it's not possible to act. Whoever laughs who in this case, at least I am not in doubt about having heard Langeland's articles. SV ridicules itself by justifying this proposal that the logical thing then is that all the positions as leaders in bulk and in the lot in which case shall be inherited and not chosen. The spouse of historical confusion shall be searched for a long time. But I understand that in a sense, too, because it is clear that the Swedish Government with the Workers' Party does not now have the same opportunity – to use an expression that is not so common in the parliamentary context, but is perhaps permitted – to be the Workers' Party by relying on someone in the Workers' Party to vote in favour of an SV proposal. This time they've probably stumbled a little bit in their own legs in many ways. Like the representative of Kolberg, I would like to stress the following: the Norwegian kingdom has a good parliamentary tradition. It is the Norwegian people who have chosen the kingdom. We have a good tradition of combining parliamentary democracy with a kingdom with good, popular anchoring. How long will it last, only time will show. But abolishing something that works well, I actually think the Storting shouldn't be. And as some kind of inspiration to SV, I would say that there's a lot of things that don't work, that this government has the opportunity to do something about. I think the people would understand if SV concentrated on things other than the republic and the monarchy. Today, the kingdom acts as a stabilizing factor, and the Norwegian king, and the queen, acts as a commoner for the people and has shown a capacity for renewal that makes me think that this form of state can last a long time, as it has also been in some other European democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e296	It's going to be line change. The President would point out that ‘laughing’ is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e301	Per-Christian Foss is trying to make this a question of whether a government is poor or good. That wasn't my starting point, because I believe that in relation to the previous government, in which Per-Kristian Foss was Minister of Finance, it's a brilliant government we have today, and that most people have got it better. It is not that the rich have become even more sought after, as they were about to become when Foss was Minister of Finance. But let's go away from this government talk and go back to the principal. And then you could like to make a number out of that I'm pulling the principle of inheritance into a political party. The question of Per-Kristian Foss is: Is it true that one of the Norwegian democracies should inherit a position based on the family one is born into? Is that a good and correct principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e308	Yes, as long as it has a clear democratic anchoring, and as long as the Norwegian people want it so. Otherwise, I did not discuss whether we have a bad or good government in my post. I am absolutely convinced that we have a worse government than even SV had expected, and a lot worse than I had expected. I think we should leave that question. But my point of bringing the government in was perhaps that of things you should correct in the Norwegian community, I don't think the question of abolishing the monarchy is high on the people's priority list. There I actually think that I have a larger part of the population behind me than it itself has in the upswing of the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e315	The right-hand side is well on the polls for the time being. That's good. But luckily, there's a time for the election, so we'll be able to fix it soon! I still think that Per-Kristian Foss is a little evading to the problem, because he thinks that democracy in Norway should be based on inheritance, while he won't pass that principle on to other areas. It's only in this one area -- a privileged, federal system -- that Right wants it. Just as Right wouldn't give women the right to vote in 1913, so there's a problem where one won't be a principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e322	It can be difficult to perceive it as elusive when you answer a question 'yes'. In fact, it is among the exceptions in Stortinget that one can answer as clearly as possible. In fact, as far as the form of state we have is concerned, I believe that it has a good foundation in a democratic society, and that there is a broad uprising about it. That's the exception to the way we do it in society, which may have given the kingdom a strength. It actually gives strength that after father comes son or daughter, with a long time to prepare for the act to be done, properly with limited influence in a parliamentary system, but well anchored in the democratic system. It's a system I'd like to stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e333	Live the Republic, live democracy! This is a debate on democracy. The monarchy as an institution is a remnant after the feudal community. It's an inheritance from a time when power, positions, and privileges were inherited. The rapporteur, Mr Syversen, argued that the Norwegian monarchy was introduced in due course by a referendum. I think it is special that in 2010 we should not be able to discuss what kind of form of state we should have, because it was a vote in 1905. It's been more than 100 years. In addition, I think it is appropriate to recall that in 1905 the vote in no way satisfies our demands for democracy. Half of the population did not have the right to vote. None of my grandmothers had the opportunity to vote on whether Prince Carl would become king of Norway or whether the president of Norway would be elected by the people. Several argue that the Norwegian royal family is doing a good job and are nice people. I'm not going to dispute that, but I want to stress that the discussion about what kind of state form Norway is going to have is in principle. SV's basic starting point is that you choose positions, you don't inherit them. The representative of Kolberg agreed in principle. To that I have to say that we choose state form on the basis of principles. We don't choose state form because it's convenient. I think that the opponents of the proposal sometimes refer to democracy in quite contemptible forms. For example, I heard. The representative Foss in the debate with the representative of Langeland in Political Quarter refers to presidential elections in rather demeaning terms, as something that divides people, which is difficult and to the point of regret. To that I would say that democracy is difficult, it's stress and control and concern when different interests and different people discuss and fight for their things, but that's now how we guarantee people power and influence in this world. I think democracy is a very good arrangement. It's not just for the country's head to be elected by the people, we're fighting too much more democracy. Ultimately, this debate is about whether or not the country's supremacy will be elected by the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e346	With reference to the previous speaker, I think it is difficult to argue very strongly that those who are followers of the Republic are larger followers of democracy than those who are followers of maintaining today's state form. History shows how Norwegian societies over time have evolved very well, and it has strengthened this hall's power in a way that very few other democracies can point to in such a short time. Changing state form is a major and important debate. The representative of Langeland made a point that this proposal has been promoted by SV since 1968. Despite the fact that this proposal has been promoted by SV since 1968, SV has not been able to create any popular commitment to change state form in Norway. And that's probably the cause of some of the other challenges this debate creates. Because if a person reads the proposal, there is no one in this room who is better at arguing against SV's constitution than SV itself. The proposal therefore states that: ‘an introduction of the Republic requires prior referendum because the question of republican or monarchic state form is of great importance to the people and the country. This is a process which must take place in advance and independently of the necessary changes to the Constitution’. It goes on to say: ‘People’s vote on the country’s state form must therefore be regarded as a constitutional practice.’ And then comes the best argument that SV should either withdraw the proposal or vote against the proposal: «The proposers propose that the introduction of the Republic should take place immediately if it is adopted.» It is among the rare units that one in a proposal is able to argue so well why this increase should not vote in favour of the SV Constitutional Amendment proposal. I think this is such an important and big debate that if you want to discuss changing state form, it should be done in a more serious way than this SV proposal adds. That discussion should start in the people; it should not necessarily start in the staging room. It is the people who should be the right reference to start such a debate. The result is short and good that SV should vote against the proposal itself, or preferably draw it. If they don't leave it up to other parties in this big room to make sure it doesn't become total chaos. For one would adopt this, and then have a referendum afterwards, one could risk Norway by principle this afternoon, as the representative Nybakk said, being a republic, and then one would find the practical solutions to it. Then there is a referendum, where the people, for example. They want monarchy, and then SV has said that they will stick to it – then the principles are not so important, so they will stick to it. Then you have to have a small intermediate period with Republic before you reintroduce the monarchy. Of course, the progress party should be involved in preventing this kind of chaos.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e378	I find it strange that a representative from the Progress Party, and the leader of the Control and Constitution Committee, only talks about the formal, and doesn't go into the real. My question to the representative is: is it right to have a system in Norway where one has a king who is born to be king, so has a position in democratic Norway where one is not elected to a position? Can the representative talk about it instead of ramming up a breach of formalities that is not really about the principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e385	I think we would have solved many of these challenges if SV were a little bit more concerned with the formal. What I talked about in my post was not initially formalities; it's most of all realities that SV should take into account in the next round. This should actually be a proposal for a referendum on whether to introduce a new form of state in Norway. Then there would be an internal logic in SV's thinking. But the lack of logic that SV accused others for instead, they themselves are guilty of. So it's the people in Norway who have decided our state form. And if you're going to start that discussion again, there should be an atmosphere in the people to do that. Then SV should perhaps also be concerned about how that mood develops in the people, and there are no reports that indicate that there is a great mood in the people to change state form.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e392	I record that the representative does not answer my question. What advice would the representative have given the Norwegian people in voting on kingdom or republic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e397	In the party programme of the Progress Party, it is quite clear that we are followers of the monarchy, and it will be the party that decides how the representatives address such a question. But there is an important debate to take, and if it is to be taken, it should be taken into the right forums and not through a constitutional proposal that is not very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e402	So the representative doesn't have an answer to what advice he would give the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e407	Of course, the progress party will deal with that matter in the same line with absolutely all the other things. The party's programme says that we are followers of the monarchy, and that is what we will give the people until the party programme is amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e412	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e415	Let me start by joining the representative of Kolberg with great seriousness. Let me continue to say that the Kingdom Hall in Norway is a common denominator in Norwegian society – not automatically because it is stated in the Norwegian Constitution, but because of the efforts of the Royal House over generations. The Kinghouse has a special position in the Norwegian people. This also points forward. Norway is more different and is becoming more different than ever. The Norwegian house is becoming a much larger and wider house, and we need new and different communities. The Norwegian royal house is both an old and a new community, and the position of the institution is due not least to the ability of the royal house to change in the course of the development of society – yes, in many fields I would say that the royal house has gone in the front and shown its way. I will also point to the ability of the royal house to lead when the situation has called for it. So is it that our democracy and our monarchy have evolved together. It hasn't always been harmony, but since 1884 there has been no doubt about who controls, and where power lies. After that, the relationship has been characterized by mutual respect. Our state form can in no way be said to have been restricted or to hinder the development of Norway as a liberal and constitutional democracy. That is why, as the representative Foss, I believe that this is a form of state that has sustainability and that can last a long time. Now it's nothing less than our state form that's on the table for treatment in Stortinget. Of course, this is a very serious matter. That's why, in my view, it's a pity that the proposal is so far poorly thought out and so far poorly formulated, not least through the obvious logical flaw, which many have pointed out, namely that we have to change the state form here over the table, change a whole series of paragraphs in our constitution, and then put the proposal to a referendum. In conclusion, I would like to point out what I believe is an obvious paradox for the SV and the proposers, namely the fact that every time you promote this proposal, every time you raise this debate, and at least in the way that has been done today, you achieve nothing but that the Stortinget with, I would say, an ever greater majority and ever greater strength confirms our statehood, confirms our state form and confirms our support for the monarchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e429	The belief that in times of crisis it is best to have a non-elected head of state to lean on is not exactly a demonstration in democratic minds. That in a troubled world we need continuity, I don't think anyone disagrees. The problem is that many people think that this continuity must consist of a non-elected head of state, and I have bigger problems to follow. For me, the matter here is very simple. I noticed in the case rapporteur's first post, that the idea of and the idea of hailing a chosen state head on 17 May was ridiculous and comical – who would want to go in for something so ridiculous, other than people like Ingrid Fiskaa? Could authority be more honorable and respectable when it comes from coincidences and institutions based on distant history than when it leaps fresh out of the hearts and judgment of an honest and enlightened people? The rhetorical question asked John Adams, the second president of the United States, 213 years before the case-rapporteur, Mr. Syversen, in the Stortinget, made fun of the idea of hailing a elected head of state on the national day. But in a very large number of countries, there is the very idea of how to pay tribute to an elected head of state for the reason that you have a national day to celebrate in the first place. How happy I'll be when we can do the same in Norway! For in what way can it be more important to stand firm on the most fundamental democratic principles than on the question of what state form we are going to have? The fact that some parties are trying to reject this debate in semantic exercises shows only what problems they have in defending the monarchy in principle. There are actually no parties here in the hall capable of. It is strange to see that the representatives who in other contexts hold the basically thought-out freedoms very much elevated, are now trying to argue pragmatically and practically that democracy is something we can negotiate away in some areas as long as the outcome is pleasant and good enough. That is something we should have in mind next time the same representatives are holding pompous talks about the inviolability of liberal freedoms, such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press and equal rights for all – some of the speakers in today's debate have done before. So I'm going to think about it, for example. on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in the debate on Afghanistan in 2001. I am thinking of the representative Mr Borten Moe in the debate on hijab. As far as our state form is concerned, these issues are clearly secondary to the importance of having a principle approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e440	To be honest, there are limits to how to interpret posts. I started from the SV's proposal, and not least how hopelessly it is formulated, where you haven't even thought about how the republic you want to introduce works. Just to show it, I allowed myself – call it a fun thing. For example, when a constitutional proposal makes it clear that the ceremonial, etc., meeting with the presidents and heads of state of other countries is to be carried out. by a Deputy Minister of State, possibly a Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, only supports the fact that this proposal should have been drawn. When I ask the representative of Langeland – and he obviously thinks that I am heavy – it is precisely to clarify the following: should we first adopt the republic, introduce the republic, and then SV shall vote for it – not just an advisory referendum, but a binding referendum – in order to reintroduce the monarchy? That's what SV has now explained – yes, that's what they mean. In fact, this is a proposal asking for the chaos of state law. And then we're going to listen to this kind of post that we heard here at last – lessons from SV about what is democracy, and what is not. I'm going to avoid reminding the SV representatives of what unelected heads of state they've held through their history, until quite recently – Castro can be one name.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e445	I have actually looked forward to this debate with curiosity and joy. With the indignantness and the gloomy seriousness with which the rapporteur presented this matter, and with which others have followed up, we realize that right now, while this debate is taking place, the Norwegian people are experiencing some dramatic moments of fate. At all, think of doing something as inappropriate as making a suggestion to choose away a form of governance that, by and large, the world does not have! This is very dramatic, says Martin Kolberg, and others follow very clearly up, not least the last speech, just before me. So only today have I realized how deeply difficult the world must have it – not because of the financial crisis, food crisis, war, conflict and climate crisis, but because they do not have a kingdom, not least in a world that experiences as much change and changeability as today. What is it then that the world has not understood, that we have understood? Or, what is it about Norway that is so special that we're going to have such a special form of governance? May 17th? Most of us Northmen are actually in the difficult situation that we don't have a king to greet on May 17. In fact, we have to wave either to a rapporteur or to the chairman of the 17th May Committee, but we still feel that 17th May is working for us. Is that our war? Other countries also have both experienced and survived warriors despite the fact that they have not had kingship or a king. No, I'm left with what I had a suspicion in advance: it's SV that is basically in this debate. The majority play on emotions – good, national feelings. So what I'm left with is, to sum up, the big question: What else has the world not understood – when they have either opted for the kingdom, or have not realized that they must introduce kingdom as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e465	It is worth noting that when the case rapporteur, the representative of Syversen, is reminded of what he himself said in his first post, he answers by trying to link the undersigned to Fidel Castro in Cuba – and talks in the same post about low levels from other representatives. It's quite special, because there are no signed ones who have argued by mocking the idea of hailing elected heads of state on the national day of this debate. That's what the Seven itself has done. And as excited as the representative was in his last post – I take that as a sign that SV in this debate is right, and that the Christian People's Party has very strong problems in basically defending the monarchy they vote for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e470	Case No. 1 has thus been fully debated. [[See page 3475]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e486	Thank you for an inspiring debate on democracy and the Republic and the monarchy. Now we have one thing where one can really be involved and contribute to strengthening democracy and ensuring that more people get involved in democracy. So I hope that one – based on the previous debate – will be able to contribute to a few more participants in Norwegian democracy, which I believe is much more important than the previous debate. There will now be a pilot project in 20 municipalities in 2011. The left and the left, which are behind this proposal, are concerned that more people will join the proposal the next time it comes up – it doesn't look like there are so many of them this time. But it is important, and I believe it is imperative in the development of our democracy that we reduce the age of voting. In my area, Stavanger/Rogaland, there are a lot of young people who are active, who want to pursue politics, whether it is debt in youth organisations or debt in press groups, Nature and Youth, etc. They're busy being involved and having an impact. They wonder why they have duties and rights that say they have to understand the laws of the country, they can join church communities and associations, they have the right to have sex and they have the right to abortion. A 16-year-old is old enough to be judged, but not old enough to choose his legislator. We think that's a paradox. Looking around the world – in a historical light – we see that the age of voting has gone down. Austria, for example, adopted 16-year-old voting rights at all levels in 2007 and in June 2009 the 16-year-olds in Austria voted for the European Parliament. Germany has had attempts in five states, and what one sees from Germany, is that participation among this age group is higher than among other groups, precisely because I believe this youth group understands that if they use their voting rights, they can be involved in developing democracy. I think it's a challenge for the other parties – except Left and SV – that they don't want democracy to reach more. I think it would create – if we got multiples for this – a greater interest in democracy and the rule of the people and a greater awareness of what the regime means to people. Since this is a constitutional debate, it's okay to have a little story about the voting rights. We received universal voting rights in 1898, but only for men. In 1913, with strong reluctance from the party of Per-Christian Foss, Right, women were given voting rights. In 1920, voting rights were reduced to 23 years, in 1946 to 21 years, in 1967 to 20 years, and in 1978 to 18 years. Today we are in 2010. We should then extend this historical list by introducing voting rights for 16-year-olds in Norway. I also mean that through the obligations we have through the UN and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, to increase the power and influence of young people, voting rights for 16-year-olds are a right thing. It will strengthen democracy. It will increase the commitment to politics and democracy. SV and Left will escalate the number of municipalities that will run lower voting age trials, 16 years. That is one of our proposals. The second proposal is that one introduces the 16-year age limit at the 2013 elections. Democracy needs more participants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e507	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative of Langeland made proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e510	Mr Langeland thus takes up the proposals of the Socialist Left and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e515	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e518	While we are debating constitutional proposals today, human rights activists in many countries are fighting for the fundamental right to vote in elections. Some actually sacrifice their lives for democracy and voting rights. It's only 20 years since people in the eastern countries of our region, i.e. in Europe, did not have the opportunity to participate in free elections. It might be nice to remember. I agree with the proposers in one thing, namely that voting rights are among the most fundamental citizens' rights of democracy. When citizens are appointed by elections to govern the country, this underlines the fundamental principle that all power is derived from the people. We should have respect for that, and we should not ignore the right to vote. The right to vote is the fundamental right of adult women and men to participate in democracy, to decide by election who should rule. Therefore, a large majority of the Committee is in favour of the age of voting to follow the age of authority. A non-authorised person cannot, as we know, assume warranty liability, cannot enter into a marriage or, for that matter, incur liabilities without the consent of the parents. The age of authority, which in Norway today is 18 years old, marks a milestone in a young person’s life. Then he or she can also be nominated to the Stortinget for a political party. So you have to be authorized to be elected to the People's Party. Then you also have to be authoritative, in our opinion, in order to be able to vote in a big shot. I can add that doesn't mean we're not going to stimulate the involvement and participation of young people in the social debate. On this occasion, let me highlight the formidable work just done by the Storting to arouse the political interest of young people, through the MiniTinget and the school visits, where the Stortinget now also grants money for the participation of the schools. MiniTinget has turned out to be a jubilee story. There, the Storting strongly contributes to schooling and engaging young people in a massive and broad spectrum of activities, helping to arouse political curiosity, which the youth organisations of the parties and the school community continue to do. I think it is important to stimulate the political interest of young people. It is an important recruitment to future political engagement, political responsibilities and political responsibility. The age of authority at the age of 18 means a number of rights and a number of obligations. These include the right to vote in the event of a roll-call vote and local elections. It is also the international standard for voting rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e533	Let me start with the conclusion: the representatives of the Central Party are going to oppose the proposal to lower the age of voting rights by roll-call elections from 18 to 16 years. We're all selected on a program that's committed to this point. Then I register that Thomas Konow is mentioned by the proposers. He was the youngest of the founding fathers, not even 18 years old, at Eidsvoll in 1814. He was also one of the furriers who lived the longest. In the 1870s, it was customary for the 17th of May train to enter the home of the last owner-vollsman, at the Youngstorget in Christiania. Konow was also mentioned in the big debate when this was discussed in the previous parliamentary term. The representative Holmås pulled out Konow and his young age, and Inge's wages replied that Konow was the mountainers. The question is equally full whether Konow is a good argument for lowering the age of voting rights. It's doubtful. Halfdan Koht writes at least in 1914 in the anniversary work “Eidsvoll 1814” about Konow that of course he held back respectfully, and that he probably had not found anything particularly funny up there either. Once in a while, however, he had come up with something, and it is believed that he was the one who voted for the farmer Elling Walbøe to the president and chamberlain Løvenskiold to the vice president – if not otherwise to have it polite and to keep it alive. That's what he got too. What's the name of the tranny? Well, it's called an article. All in all: I think it's just as smart not always to refer to Konow when we in this room are discussing putting down the voting age. Since the national meeting at Eidsvoll, the age of voting rights has been gradually reduced many times, from 25 to 18 years. The number of women who have obtained the right to vote has increased from one to two. In other words, voting rights and voting rights are variables over time and across borders, and they have been increasingly defined, fortunately. In the last decades, however, the trend has converged towards a relatively stable balance, also internationally – 18 years for both men and women. In Norway, age of authority, age of choice and age of voting rights are consistent. This is not random, and I believe that this match is both wise and well worth fending about. The right to vote represents the right to distribute benefits and burdens, be formally involved in influencing social development. This is a great responsibility. Therefore, it is natural that the voting rights are related to the age of authority. If you're going to be involved in determining the limits of everyone else's life, we should assume that you are formally responsible for your own. I also believe that the right to vote is linked to the right to stand for election. Otherwise, we will operate with A and B membership in Norwegian democracy – most with full rights, a few with strongly reduced number. In theory, the age limit may be reduced to 16 for both age of authority, age of choice and age of voting rights. The current match is also not basically locked to the number 18. This, however, is not on the table today, and I do not see anyone who is in charge of this or who has promoted these points in the social debate. In that case, it would have quite far-reaching consequences for much of our thinking about the legislation for this age group. We would then define for all practical purposes 16-year-olds as adult individuals responsible for their own lives. I am not sure that neither they nor we would have liked such a development to be welcomed. It's also the way that the number 16 is actually random. It's a set limit, just like today's 18 years is. What's the principal difference between 15 and 16 years old? To put it on the top: there's only one way to secure 100 pst. of the population voting rights — namely to set the age limit to 0. Most people would find it difficult to believe that democracy would have improved for that reason. This is also the introduction to my main anchor point. I do not share the similarities between reduced age of voting and better rule of the people. One thing is the counter-examples – both Cuba and Iran have a lower age of voting than us. On the other hand, the obvious democratic deficits in these countries highlight what is essential for a country to be a constitutional democracy: political competition and fundamental safeguarding of liberal rights. Nor is Norway perfect. It'll never be. It is always possible to make our democracy better, deeper, stronger and more robust. In this way, I think a reduction in the voting age to 16 years is a big siding. More importantly, a modern and reformed electoral system ensures political competition and choice, elected representatives and institutions that constantly call for our fundamental rights in a free society. But we're going to come back to that later. Konow obviously didn't make all the world off on Eidsvoll in 1814, but there were many others who did. Therefore, freedom of expression is one of our cornerstones, in the same way as the prohibition of laws with retroactive effect and ownership. Everyone is equally crucial and essential in a free society, not individually, but together. These freedoms must always be interpreted and debated, but above all be understood as part of the stable basis for an increasingly complex and broad Norway, where the Nordics come from both Cuba and Iran, for example. In 1914 Koht wrote that Thomas Konow died in 1881, just in the drive up to what was to become the hottest battle that had ever taken place on the foundations of the Constitution. This was the fight against what led up to parliamentaryism and the absolute overpowering of the Constitutional Development. In this battle Johan Sverdrup was the great victor. He is Norway's foremost parliamentarian, he walked on the water in this Chamber in this matter. He himself believed that he had contributed to a more true understanding of our free constitution. This should also be our task in this room. In other words, and in the last words, far more important than learning from countries like Cuba and Iran is to stand on the shoulders of our own fighters and be clear on the ground wall of Norwegian constitutional democracy. We will contribute to a true understanding of the Constitution, fences of our freedoms and ensure careful development and change of the Norwegian People's Government, in line with time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e561	I advise the Right Members to vote with the majority in this case, i.e. not to lower the age of voting rights. Of several just two short points as a reason for that: I myself have joined the Storting in reducing the voting age from 20 to 18 years. I think such things must happen at a certain distance. I don't rule out that it might even be necessary to reconsider this position too, but I think it should take some time. One of the points raised is that the trend in other European countries, i.e. democracies, has converged against the same system that Norway has had for a while, with an 18-year-old voting age. My second point is that age of voting, age of authority and age of eligibility must be linked. They would not do that if the present proposal were to be adopted. I also agree with all those who have said that it is important to stimulate the political interest of young people. I myself have a life behind me with many years in party-political youth work and believe we have done a lot to stimulate interest. But I have to admit that I am not quite sure if the political youth organisations are necessarily stronger now with 18 years of voting rights than they were when it was 20 years old. Because looking at the trend in membership and activity levels, there is a falling, falling trend in political youth organisations over time. It could go up and down a little bit, but over time it's decreasing. So when it comes to what's going to be done, I believe in itself that voting age is a dead end. But that it's important to be involved in ripening the political interest, also through the activity unfolded within the schoolwork, I'm not a moment in doubt, and I'd like to join in on proposals that go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e568	I have to say that for me, this matter may be about the reason why I am engaged in politics. My whole political commitment, when I joined the Left as a 13-year-old and always when I've been in political work, is about giving a voice to those who don't have a voice. It is about young people being heard, about children being taken seriously, about young people being taken seriously, and about nobody having the right to talk to anyone. That's the core of what it was all about for me, when as a young person, I wanted to get involved politically. Then I chose the Left, the Liberal Party, the party that has always been in favour of the extension of voting rights in this Chamber, and that has always been on the right side when you have discussed it – a party that is a member of an international liberal movement, where we are now fighting for the voting rights of 16-year-olds across Europe, where we have won both in Germany and in Switzerland, and where we now also had it at the top of the election campaign in the United Kingdom, where Lib Dem went for the voting rights of 16-year-olds and got 23 pst. of the population at the time of the elections. I want to start with a picture. I'm from Namdalen, North Trondelag. If you go back a few decades, you had one high school in Namdalen. It was Namdal high school, and there were 20 students in each coal. That means that the whole Namdalen had 60 students at any time in high school. I have called the principals and summed up: today there are 1,075 students in secondary schools in Namdalen. While a couple of decades ago went by 60, there are now 1,075 students. It says something about how much education level is actually raised in the Norwegian people. It gives a very good picture of how much higher education has become in very few years. In Norway, we are struggling with a 1968 image that young people in the 68th generation care about, while today young people don't care – an image that is very wrong. Remember, when the 68s went to university, it was a tiny elite who went to Norwegian University. Today, the major problem of Norwegian youth is going to universities/high schools and taking higher education. If you take the little elite that went to university in 1968, and compare it with the elite that is most active among today's students, you will discover that today's youth is considerably more politically active, considerably more politically awakened and has an incredibly much more knowledge of society around it than what youth in the 68th generation had. We also have scientific background for this. ‘Young people in Norway’, a NOVA report published in 2002, shows that we have a growing political commitment among young people and that youth today is much more politically active than adults are. Youth cares a lot more about its political everyday life than others. They are also the large consumer of municipal services. Throughout our welfare system, it's those who really notice it when our welfare system doesn't work. When the swimming pool is closed, when the leisure club is closed, or when the bicycle routes are not working, it is precisely the age group we are talking about, 16 to 18 years old. Instead of influencing them in the municipality in which they actually grow up, we choose to give them the right to vote as they move. Today, there are very few young people who see reason to engage politically in their own municipality, because they are given the right to vote when they move. I think that the Norwegian district policy had benefited from having many young people who had cared about their municipalities before they were forced to move to the major places of study. When the great liberal movement that was about to become a constitution in the United States started, the slogan was ‘no taxation without representation’. It should be a slogan that could strike in many other parties as well. It shouldn't just be the Left standing here on the pulpit and saying it's actually a good principle. When you're 16 today, you have to make a number of big choices that have big consequences for you in real life. We have a proposal here in Stortinget that is about having the right to re-select if you choose mistakes in high school. That was the government's vote. Today, at this age, you have to make a number of important choices, which you can't change again, and which affect your whole life, but you shouldn't have the opportunity to influence your society around you. You have to pay taxes, you can sit on public councils and boards. The Government may appoint one to create a NOW on important political issues, but one shall not have the right to vote against the government requesting advice. You can be put in prison, you can have children, and you have to follow the laws that this congregation makes. Nevertheless, you do not have the opportunity to influence them. You can point out a lot of inconsistencies, as Marit Nybakk did, but it's just as inconsistent that you can actually sit in this room and make laws and regulations, but you can't go down two quarters longer and buy liquor. That's what this hall has decided. We have more rules that are inconsistent, but I think it has to count a lot more that you actually pay taxes, that you can sit in public samples, that you can sit in prison, that you have to follow Norwegian laws, and that you can put children into the world. It's a lot bigger and more important choice than the ones that were shown here. I noticed that the representative Borten Moe has read out in Cuba, and it's nice for Cuba. But the countries to which we look are, for example, Germany and Switzerland, where participation among this age group has been seen to be higher than among other age groups when granting voting rights to 16-year-olds. I hope that Lib you in the United Kingdom can be involved in raising this case there as well. So that's something that's pretty interesting. The parties here are quite massively opposed to an extension, but I don't think they hear the grassroots in their own parties. When the municipal minister wanted a test project with a vote for 16-year-olds, 146 municipalities said they wanted it. 146 municipalities, by a majority in their local government, have said that they want to do so. So I wonder if the elites of the parties sitting here actually have a good listening mechanism to their municipal government representatives who think that it's an exciting proposal that they're going to try out. For me, there are many international conventions and rights that are important, but for me personally, the job of implementing the Children's Convention has been extremely important. Article 12 of the Children’s Convention establishes not only the right of expression, as some people have pointed out – namely the right of children and young people to express their views – but also the right to be actually heard. I have to say that with the social change that has been going on since our last extension of voting rights, I believe there are few arguments left to continue to hold on to 18 years. Today we see a major demographic change throughout Europe. That change is about getting more and more older. If you look at Europe from a 10- and 15-year perspective today, you will, for example, be looking at Europe from a 10- and 15-year perspective. the share over 80 years is increased by 172 pst. in 10 years. The proportion over 70 years will also increase dramatically, while the proportion between 15 and 25 years will decrease by 25 pst. If we don't expand our voting rights, there's also some perspective on the shift of power in our own demographic grouping. When we see that voting rights are reserved for an increasingly ageing population, it's a challenge for us politicians to open at the other end so that more younger people can obtain voting rights, so that we get a balance of voting rights. Finally, it was a pity that someone had not done all the world by themselves and was therefore not an argument for voting rights. I hope it's not going to be valid here in the hall. To say it like that, it's not always we have citizens who make the whole world of themselves, historically either. It may also happen that there are big business representatives who haven't done all the world off. But I guess there's no reason to deny people the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e596	It has, as many have experienced, been a continuous extension of voting rights in society, a development that has progressed towards more democracy and participation. Of course, there has been a struggle that has had opponents, while the socialists, now in the form of SV, have been the foremost in this struggle. The first extension was to remove the right to vote from the requirement to own land, i.e. an opening for those who had until then been regarded as involuntary because they did not own their land – that they should also participate. Then came the great opening that those who had also been regarded as involuntary, because they were largely dependants, namely women, should be given the right to vote. Since then, the age of voting rights has been reduced several times as the level of information, education and, of course, increased, as the importance of the highest possible level of rights, responsibilities and obligations with regard to the government of the country increases. Now, in the SV's opinion, is the time to lower the voting age once more, now to 16 years. As we have heard, this is not an outstanding proposal. Many other countries have also reduced voting age to 16 years, with good experience. 16 is the age at which people can be sentenced to punishment and have the right to enter or leave religious communities and organizations. There are many good reasons why obligations and rights to be granted at the age of 16 are followed up by authorisation in the form of voting rights. While the average age in Norway is rising, the political focus is also changing towards the interests of the older population. The German association of child psychologists has proposed to give parents the right to vote on behalf of their children. They do because they're worried that politicians are only concerned about the part of the population that's getting older, and not the whole population. It's going a long way, but they point to an important principle. The majority had not discussed many issues that had concerned women, if not women had had the right to vote. Lowering the age of 16 will both increase the influence of young people and increase the political interest of those taking over the country for young people and their problems, including environmental and climate challenges. I am convinced that it is healthy both for young people and for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e609	The representative Skei Grande made a point that as a 13-year-old she joined the Left. I was considerably later out than her, I didn't sign up for the Progress Party until I was 14. But I made the choice earlier than that. But I'm not sure whether either Skei Grande's choice of party or my own choice of party would have been particularly influenced by whether the age of voting had been 16 at that time. I have considerable sympathy for the argument that one should be a voice for those who are not being heard, but I am not quite convinced that there is necessarily some connection between that perspective and reducing the age of voting. Because if that were the point, I guess 16 years is really too high. Then you should go even lower and give the right to vote to even younger people. Both the representative of Langeland and the representative of Skei Grande were concerned that a 16-year-old could be put in prison. Yes, but you can at the age of 15, so there's no connection between the 16-year-old limit that the proposal imposes, and that you can be put in prison. In addition, prisons are not usually used until you are 18, but there is a completely different discussion. It is also true, as the representative, Skei Grande, said, that there are some inconsistencies today, for example. you can sit here in this room and pass laws, and in principle you can also be Prime Minister, but not go down to the next quarter and buy yourself a bottle of spirits. But then the impossible solution can be to create more inconsistencies. Then the solution must be to solve the inconsistencies that we actually have, and not create even more. I just want to be allowed to refer to what representatives Marit Nybakk and Ola Borten Moe said in their contributions, to which I give my warmest support: it is necessary that there is a link between the eligibility and the age of voting rights and the age of authority. On that basis, I recommend the representatives of the Advance Party to follow the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e625	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3476]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e641	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3476]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e657	In Document No: 12:21 for 2007-2008, the right to resign as a wholesaler is proposed under certain conditions. The background to the proposal is, according to the proposers, the practice which has developed where, in very special cases, long-term leave has been granted to representatives who wish to be able to take up posts which are not formally compatible with the grossing-up exercise. The proposers also show that there are examples of representatives having been given the opportunity to take up a position that has been considered to be of national interest to Norway to complain. It also refers to situations in which the personal burden of performing the job as a staging representative becomes disproportionate. Three alternative proposals have been made where the conditions for exemption are different. The most liberal option has no other condition than that the representative himself applies for an exemption. The most restrictive option is that exemptions are granted only if they are of national interest. There is an overall committee that believes that the proposal opens up an undesirable reflection on the obligation of being a wholesaler and the responsibility of a representative under the Constitution. Questions can also be asked whether the proposal is in line with the spirit of the Constitution. The paperwork is a statutory obligation. It is initially not possible for people who are eligible to vote against elections. In the Committee's view, it is then incorrect whether the Storting may grant exemption on application. It is pointed out here that the most liberal option in practice will remove the obligation to receive elections as a wholesaler. It is important for the understanding of the position as a wholesaler that it remains a civil obligation for those elected to it. The Committee also considers that the proposal opens up pressure to individual representatives who experience different life crises. We believe today's legislation in practice works well in situations where it may be difficult to combine the big business with the rest of your life. In this context, it is a joint committee recommending that the proposal presented, all the alternatives, be rejected. Moreover, and at the end of the day, a majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, show that these parties 'have been skeptical when representatives have stepped out of the Parliament to become state secretaries or similar'.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e676	Let me first underline, not least on the basis of the previous speaker, what this matter is not about. This is not a proposal for an extended right to leave from the grubbing-up operation for welfare reasons, or, for that matter, for becoming a State Secretary, not to talk about the head of the United Nations Development Programme. Maybe the Storting should also have an opinion about that at some point. I look forward to a discussion on the basis of principle of the rules for shorter or longer leave from Stortinget. Should a deposit representative, for example: are entitled to leave to attend the Defence College? What's the difference between that and taking a half-yearly unit at a regional college? And what about the State Secretary, who was mentioned? The rules on leave are important and necessary if we are to engage in thorough discussions and treatment. On the other hand, today's draft constitution is about the right of a representative to resign from his position as a wholesaler at his own discretion. If we had accepted it, it would undermine both the dignity of the Storing and the rights and duties, as well as undermining the obligation of being a magnificence representative and the responsibility of a representative under the Constitution. The paperwork is a statutory obligation. If you were to say goodbye in the period, it would mean some kind of deevaluation of the job. Being a staging representative must never become a balancing post or a springboard for a person. So you shouldn't be able to go off as a big-time representative to be the head of the Post, to take an example from our neighboring country, or to start studying at the London School of Economics. It will undermine the importance, status and duties of the work, in my opinion. In addition, however, it could actually lead to an unhealthy culture in the party organisations, where representatives may be pressured to withdraw from the list to leave the magnificence to the next person or be subjected to pressure from organised groups in given situations. Not to mention: Two people are making a deal – I'm sitting for two years, and I'm pulling out, so you can safely stand behind me on the list. All the worst, this could be for someone who is in a temporarily difficult situation of life – what was actually the starting point for this proposal, as far as I know, to be presented. Remember, if you are in a difficult situation in life, you have a vulnerability — a personal vulnerability. Then it's easy to give in to pressure, or for well-meaning advice, maybe, to withdraw. When the personal crisis is over, the big business is gone. Then you are no longer elected, because then you have voluntarily chosen to resign. So finally, we should rather discuss what kind of welfare arrangements and offers we can give our co-representatives in situations where that may be necessary. Because we all know that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e687	Some may wonder that when we get this far, the undersigned and several other proposers will vote against their own proposal. When we do, however, it is because this case has been dealt with in the Workers' Party group, and we follow the group in this case. Having said that, I am pleased that it is so strongly emphasised that arrangements relating to the rules on leave which allow representatives in difficult social situations to be exempted from their daily attendance in the Grand Duchy for shorter or longer periods, because when the proposal was made, it was based on the fact that the rules on leave so far did not provide such an occasion, and because the present system of leave actually proved to be contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law. However, I ask that the presidency pursue what has now been said by the pulpit, so that we can have proper arrangements that allow representatives to avoid meeting if social situations so require.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e696	Just a very brief comment on the post by the representative Marit Nybakk. She assumed that I took up, and mentioned several places this with the rules of leave, and that it was actually not the central part of the proposal that it should be voted on. But in the rationale of the proposal, this is with the permits listed a number of times, and that's also why I referred to it in my post. I also share very much the views of the representative, Mr Nybakk. Especially when she calls for a look at the rules on leave – and also the last speaker, the representative of Gullvåg, takes this up – I am very pleased to be included in the presidency, where both the president who is in charge of the meeting today and Marit Nybakk are sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e703	I refer you to Mr Nybakk's speech as our main reason for voting against the proposal. But there is one recital that I think belongs in this debate, and which I think is right to put forward before we end it. It is linked to the important and correct principle on which our administration is also based, that once a proxy has been elected, it is the person who manages the office that the voters have given him. It's not the parties. Nor can the Storting as such review the rights and integrity of each representative. In order not to exaggerate, it is assumed that the proposal that is now there can to some extent undermine the system and the integrity, as Marit Nybakk has argued. There is a fundamental consideration which, in any case, I attach a great deal of weight to it, because the fact that each mandate belongs to the individual representative when he is elected is an important balance between the individual, the parties and the voters. And that is also an argument we have to put into consideration when we now believe that we are going to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e710	I am part of this unanimous setting on the Right, but I will only have an error fixed on page 3 of the setting. The right shall not be part of the note on page 3, nor shall it be part of the majority, which indicates that the parties ‘have been skeptical when representatives have stepped out of the magnificence to become state secretaries or similar.’ I do not think I can say with my hand on the heart that the Right has always been so. The others get to stick to their own hearts, to say it like that. But as a history description, I don't think I want to be part of that formulation. By the way, I've come here. The last sentence, where it says that, in the majority's opinion, there is sufficient access to leave in the current legislation, etc., is in itself a description I can agree with. I do not really think that there is much disagreement in the committee as such. But just this story description that we've been skeptical, I think I'll keep right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e717	Then the representative Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right, has explained that incubation. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3477]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e727	Then we would be ready to go to voting in case no. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e734	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:3 [[Insertion of Republican State form]] The President will propose that an alternative vote be taken between the proposal and the Committee's nomination, and that it be voted in the usual way, using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e760	During the debate, Mr H. Langeland put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Document 12:6 [[introduction of voting age 16 years by rollover election]] The President will propose that alternative voting be made between this proposal and the Committee's nomination, and that it be voted in the usual way, using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e784	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to step up the number of municipalities included in the voting system for 16-year-olds in the subsequent elections and to include the roll-out elections in the scheme, from 2013 onwards.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e803	There is a unanimous vote, but since we are now going to decide on amendments to the Constitution, the President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. – There have been no objections to it, and we are moving forward as proposed by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e843	The plug starts with representative No. 9 for the province of Hordaland, Torcil Åmland. The voters will reply yes. The votes against the configuration answer no. The President will request a high and clear response from representatives for the purposes of registration, and there should be peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e869	There is a unanimous view here that the draft constitution is not accepted, and the President proposes that it be voted in the usual way. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e895	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e904	Today, we are invited to debate and decide on a proposal for a representative to grant immediate start to security improvements in Telemark prison, the Ski Department. The background to the proposal is a report in TV 2, where a journalist entered prison with a gun copy. The weapons copies were not discovered until the journalist came to the metal detector that all visitors have to pass. In Telemark Prison, the Ski Department, this metal detector is located within the prison walls. Criminal services talk about more issues when assessing safety. The concept of dynamic and static safety is used to describe safety measures. Of course, it is important to have a well-qualified crew who contribute to stability and stimulate a calm and safe environment. Manning must also be able to handle different situations that may arise. My impression after visiting more prisons is that prisons have very well-qualified staff. In addition, we have the static safety that consists mainly of a well maintained building mass, with appropriate solutions adapted to the individual prison, including prison walls and metal detectors. The safety of criminal services is thus the sum of the instruments aimed at preventing and dealing with situations where security may be threatened, whether for society, for employees or for prisoners. As rapporteur on the matter, I would like to explain the Committee's views on the matter. The Committee has been unanimous in much of the comments. The Committee shall display, inter alia: in order to ensure that the prison in question is a high-security prison and that the prison is not currently classified as a high-risk prison. Nevertheless, since 2007, prison has been available as a standby prison with up to five places for convicted offenders who have been considered to have to zone in a high-risk facility. These places have been little used. Furthermore, the Committee refers to the review of the current safety classification of prisons in Norway by criminal services. In this context, the safety of Telemark Prison, the Ski Department, is also assessed. The Committee is aware of the fact that the last few years have used approx. Eight million. Dr to various security measures in the case of Telemark prison, the Rail Department. Among other things, the camera surveillance has been repaired. The need for further security improvements will be assessed in the light of the security classification and the annual budgetary priorities of the criminal justice system. As everyone in this room knows, it is the Stortinge which grants the framework for the criminal services of the annual state budgets, while the criminal services themselves provide funds for, among other things. necessary safety measures within those frameworks. Through the Committee’s consultation on the matter, both Norwegian Prisons and Freedom of Care Associations and the Professional Association of Criminal Services highlighted the strong need to improve the safety lock at Telemark Prison, the Ski Department. The desire for these improvements has been promoted for several years without reaching budgetary priorities in the criminal justice system. It is important to listen to employees' organisations, because they often know best how the shoe prints. I don't think the Storting is the right body to assess the details of the individual security measures in our prison, either in Telemark prison, the Ski Department. I think it's going to be too far to intervene in government. The size must rely on the judgements of the competent authorities. However, I expect that if the central administration of criminal justice believes that the security of prisons is not sound, they will report to the Ministry of Justice's political leadership so that the necessary funds can be allocated. In the light of this, the Committee proposes that the proposal of the representative for the immediate start of security improvements in Telemark prison, the Rail Department, be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e925	Telemark prison, the Ski Department, has recently received some media attention, and there has not been any positive media attention. It's about the security of the prison. This, of course, applies to the security of both the staff and the prison inmates. The rail prison is defined, as it has been said, as a prison with high security, and they have some prisoners who are very heavily criminally burdened. However, questions about the security of prison may be asked when a TV 2 journalist recently walked straight into the heart of prison, carrying a gun and an automatic gun, without this being discovered. And this wasn't the first time the lack of security was revealed at the prison. Fortunately, these have been revelations that we can call innocent acts. What if someone finds out they're going to do something other than test your safety? What if someone wanted to go in and release prisoners, or even hurt or liquidate prisoners? It's awkward to have to say that, but I actually think these will succeed. It's just to hope that that doesn't happen. We have to hope that for both the inmates and the employees. In a letter to the Justice Committee of the State Council of Storberget dated 17 March 2010, Storberget says: «A well maintained building stock is important for the safety of prisons.» I agree with the heart. Governments also say: ‘I would also like to stress that a well-qualified crew able to handle different situations that may arise in prisons is very important for safety.’ I also agree with the heart, and we have many very well qualified people in Norwegian prisons. But it doesn't help to be well qualified if armed people can walk right into prison. When the employees stand and look into the mouth of a kalazhnikov, it also does not help to be well qualified. At the hearing on this matter on 12 April 2010, there was a strong emphasis on the need for a security lock-down in prison from the Criminal Office and from the Norwegian Prison and Free Health Associations. It has been proposed and demanded repeatedly in recent years, but nothing has happened. It has even been claimed by some responsible teams that they have not known about this requirement, despite written documentation showing the opposite. This lock will make conditions for both prisoners and employees much safer — a security that is incredibly important for employees to perform a good job and for prisoners to feel much less insecure about external attacks. A lock at Skien incarceration is estimated to be about $6.7 million. kr. Let me remind you that just the art of new Halden prison costs $7 million. kr. To give the employees and the inmates of Skien prison a safe everyday life, you don't have the economy, but the art is worth $7 million. kr is not a problem – see who can. Another factor is that the construction of the Halden prison was approximately. Forty million. kr more reasonable than calculated. Then it could have been possible to see this in a context with Skien prison. The party of progress is clearly of the opinion that something needs to be done to improve the safety of Skien prison, and it needs to be done now before something serious happens. With this, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e953	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e956	TV 2 has a program that I expect more people to follow, namely «Thursday evening from Nydalen». It's a very good program. Unfortunately, it was not like Morten Ramm or anyone else from «Toursday evening from Nydalen» who took a trip to the studio, it was TV 2 Krimjournist Kadafi who got into the most sacred thing with weapons – dot like what came out in 2005 and dot like it an exercise four years ago showed and that you have on tape. Then this shock and this disbelief – as presented by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee – become a little special, given that this had to be known for several years. So the shock must be kind of caused by the fact that you want to show a huge feeling outside, even though that feeling should have been sunk in too far. The composition of prisoners at Skien incarceration is demanding and has become more demanding in recent years. I have to say that it is disappointing that the government has not, after this round, revised, found the means to actually show that the security of the prisoners and employees is taken seriously. So the previous speeches were on the flow of information. In various ways, the Regional Director and the State Secretary have been unknown – it was completely foreign to them – that this was ever or at any time the priority of someone, and that is stated in the public debate. Then I have to say that it is quite special to see what kind of information flow it is clearly between department, region, central administration and department, and not least to the Stortinget, because this is therefore about security at the most basic level. I have to say that I also react when I feel that employees and trustees are almost being followed because they see that they have to alert to the opposition on the Stortinget, because they feel that they are not being taken seriously, they feel that they are not being heard, and they feel that they suddenly become the problem when they warn, not what they are told about. The Right Party and the Advance Party sent a number of questions based on these alleged lack of knowledge about the situation at the Skien prison. The answer was voluminous, but I guess I can't exactly say that there was some particular assurance that here you have good routines to tell you how the situation is going on in the system. Rather, you owe it to those who are at the bottom of the system. I think it's problematic that the Storting is not introduced to this kind of completely basic relationship. Everyone understands that a government and a majority want to brag about what's good – and there's a lot that's good. But when in one of the prisons, which has a reasonably demanding prison composition, you don't manage to pass on, or do not ensure that it is passed on, these kinds of concerns, so that someone has to alert in the media, I have to say that the communication flow from the criminal services to the ministry is bad. I hope that the Council of State in its statement will promise that it will be provided with the means to get a lock in place – as this is not in revision, that you will find other creative ways to do it. I hope I can get out of the debate. Otherwise, the Right will notify that the proposals of the Progress Party will be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e975	The Christian People's Party believes that a security improvement at Telemark Prison, the Skin Department is necessary. Adequate checkpoints must be provided in the first lock into the prison that visitors have to go through. Telemark Prison, the Ski Department is a prison that also has prisoners who require high security. Therefore, it is not reassuring that a TV 2 reporter was able to smuggle machine guns and small arms into prison in February this year. Nor is it reassuring that, despite the fact that employees warned against a lack of security already in 2005, and that a hostage exercise has been conducted that made security vulnerabilities visible in prison, no upgrade of the security associated with visitors has been done now, almost five years later. In addition, the Professional Association of Criminal Services and Norwegian Prisons and Free Health Associations have also identified the need for security improvements at prison. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to listen to these clear signals, and is responding to the Minister of Justice's intervention to ensure that the security of prison is strengthened. I am aware that some security improvements have already been made at the prison. I also know that the number of escapes from Norwegian prisons is at a low level. That's good. Nevertheless, as responsible politicians, we cannot fail to listen to all the warnings received regarding the security of Telemark prison, the Ski Department. In the deepest sense, this issue is about the security of society – people's perceived security. That is why the Christian People's Party expects the Minister of Justice to provide the necessary improvements to security as soon as possible, and expects that this will also be possible in his budgetary procedure, where such appropriations belong. The Christian People's Party will vote to attach this matter to the Minutes, but asks the Minister of Justice to have the matter far ahead in his consciousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e990	Criminal services have 3,717 prisons, of which 2,322 are in high-security prisons. High-security plaques are distributed over about 30 units. Of these, several smaller prisons were built in the 1800s. These are built to address the current safety challenges. In line with developments in the threat picture, safety requirements have been changed. Newly built Halden prison is an advanced prison with security measures and crews that provide a robust level of security. When the Skien prison was planned in the 1980s, the possibility of armed release was different from today's. The improvement of the security of each unit in each region is gradual and targeted within a given framework. This also applies to Telemark Prison, the Ski Department. The threat picture of crime prevention today includes a wide range of regular situations, with good experience in dealing with them. However, events which, fortunately, have not been experienced in Norway should also be planned. In 2004, there were, for example, several serious episodes in Sweden, including: included the use of two-handed automatic weapons and one case where one was included by one of the hostages. These incidents have also had an impact on the preparedness of criminal services. Delay strategies, police response time and binding interaction between police and criminal services in planning, prioritisation and exercises are important elements to prevent such events. In this context, the perimeter protection door is also one of several possible measures. In view of the criminal environment's assessment of the possible success of armed estimation, the gatekeeper could have an important preventive effect. It is important to be clear when discussing this: Only a small minority of prisoners in Norwegian prisons are willing to carry out such serious acts, but they have to be taken seriously. Of these, only a few have the capacity and the ability to implement, but they still have to be taken with the highest seriousness. The required capability also involves contact with outsiders who are willing and have access to weapons and who are able to use them. Furthermore, an inmate’s willingness to carry out these types of actions is influenced by several factors. The risk may be greater at the start of a settlement process than at the end, but also the settlement content and the possibilities for progress could influence the willingness to do so. In other words, the importance of dynamic safety cannot be underestimated in this work. The government has high ambitions for criminal law. And to identify which prisoners represent such a risk and how these are to be managed, the government of St.meld suggests. No 37 for 2007-2008 several actions, including: improved monitoring methodology, improved access to relevant information and improved qualitative processing of this information. Detainees who are presumed to be capable of representing such a risk shall be placed in units capable of handling it. I refer in this context to the ongoing review of today's security classification of prisons. In this context, the safety of Telemark prison, the Skien department, will also be assessed. We will follow up, as the Christian People's Party also now asked us to do, and I will come back to the Storting in future budgetary proceedings to assess this very question. If prison is to continue to carry out tasks that are particularly high in risk, it would be natural to give priority to the construction of a gatekeeper in the context of perimeter protection, as has been done in some prisons. In Prison Prison, Stavanger Prison and Ullersmo Prison, such a gatekeeper is already established. Furthermore, the round of tenders for the construction of port guards at Trondheim prison is being carried out in these days. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right point to the importance of good information flows within different public bodies. This is a vision I'm sharing in full. I can assure you that I have the greatest respect for the members of the criminal service and their organisations in this work. With regard to the priorities of the Southern Region Crime Prevention Agency, there is no record of disagreement between the organisations of the South and the management. I believe that the perimeter guard is not a measure that is relevant to all prisons in the high security category. In this context, too, priority needs to be given, and we will assess this issue related to the ski prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1018	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1021	There have been varying versions if someone knew or did not know, and who knew or did not know, about the safety criteria and violations at Skien prison. My question to the Council of State is simple: Does the Council of State believe that the flow of information between employees, public authorities and the ministry is satisfactory? Or does the Council of State see an improvement potential in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1028	I think it's crucial, as I also said in my post, that you put a lot of emphasis on what the employees are saying. But it also means that you have the opportunity to get in the position to express your opinion, and that we benefit greatly from what employees’ organisations and employees actually contribute to criminal care – not only in terms of security, but also in other areas. But to say that this is a situation that is now adequate and that it is good enough, I will not claim. That is why it is so important that the work of the criminal services and the central administration of the criminal justice system is now taking place against security, against the return guarantee, against the follow-up of all the measures that stand in the wake of the announcement of a penalty that is effective — precisely the absence of it, is causing the regions to report in, so that the flow of information is as good as possible, so that we are given the best possible conditions for making good policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1034	Was the council made aware of the situation with the lock in Skien prison when TV 2 made him aware of it, or earlier? And if earlier, what date and what year is it about the Council of State getting acquainted with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1039	I perceive that when information about the date and year of the information has arrived in the department, the Council of State has a constitutional responsibility for it. But if the representative is out by date, in that case I will be allowed to come back to him with it in a written reply, because I do not have that in my head, and I am asking for an understanding of that. But it is clear that the case was significantly updated politically for our part when it went on TV 2. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1046	This case shows that there are major challenges to the safety situation in Norwegian prisons. A few days ago, the Council Party colleague Jan Bøhler was outside criticising the government for the insecurity of Oslo prison. There are several examples of this. In his statement, the Council of State keeps saying that he will consider, he will come back in future budgetary proposals, etc. etc. to the extent that additional means of securing, inter alia, need to be provided. at the Skien prison. Do we need a sharp situation in Norwegian prisons before the Council of State should understand the seriousness and bring the funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1055	We can't have that. That's why the government has just dedicated a lot of the work that we did in connection with St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008, for safety. And that's why the government, which I also tried to explain in my main post, is just doing considerable work on security. The construction of the Halden prison is a good safety measure. The content we are doing is also essential to ensure safety, and I also believe that the long-term effort that has been on both dynamic safety and other types of safety work shows that we have succeeded, because we have a very small number of escapes and cases, as opposed to some other comparable countries. And the fact that you're doing work now, and you've done work, for example. This is a sign that the government is taking this seriously. But at the same time, we need to be humble in relation to the challenges we face and to the fact that crime and clientele are changing. That's why I'm open to discussing this, especially what's traveled in relation to the Ski Prison, when we're about to deal with... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1060	In my previous question, I was very specific. I do not expect the Council of State to remember everything, but when you have received written questions and have already sent a written statement, I do not see any need for a new written statement. So I guess you can actually answer what you didn't respond to in the written statement you've already given, namely when the department was introduced to – and also the Council of State per. definition — the situation in the safety lock, and what is the reason for responding to the situation only now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1065	The representative Octay Dahl does not need to send me any written enquiry. I have offered to send a written reply to the representative, Oktay Dahl, that this would be correct. And when I'm then asked about the date for when you were briefed, I ask respect for that, so I want to check that it's right when I say it. And that's what I want to investigate with the department. I have so much respect for Stortinget that you have to give the right information. I promise that the representative, Oktay Dahl, will get written.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1070	The cord shift is therefore over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1075	We all have the starting point that we want safe and good societies – it's in everyday life or in the workplace. In particular, this is important for the inclusion of post-retirement professional groups as a police force or as a member of the criminal service. We therefore attach great importance to the good qualifications of these professional groups and to the defence of the standard of manpower. Telemark Prison, Ski Department is a high-security prison. The ongoing review of the security classification of prisons in Norway will, of course, also lead to an assessment of the prison in the Ski. Apart from the stunt of the TV2 reporter at Telemark Prison, the Ski Department when a delegation from the Progress Party visited the prison, I have never heard that it has been serious or dramatic in terms of perimeter protection in the Ski. This does not mean that it cannot be relevant to assess the personnel security locks at prison. If the choice was between a new and improved lock and a strong crew at the prison, I have no doubt what they want to give priority to prison. I'm overconfident that the answer would be a strong crew. It was also my opinion when I visited the prison earlier in the year. Nor have I registered that an improved control post in the Telemark Entrance Party has been the top priority in the Crime Prevention Region of the South. If it were to prove that the future prison in Ski would be a permanent prison to which there is a particularly high risk, the case is quite different. In that case, it must of course be relevant to consider the construction of the gatekeeper and the improvement of the entry party at the establishment, as the Council of State also said in its contribution. This is also the reason why the government parties do not want to reject the proposal, but rather want the proposal to be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1086	There are not so many good news from the justice sector when you read the newspapers in Telemark at the moment. It is largely about the fact that there are too few policemen compared to what is the norm — or at least what is averaged nationally — and it turned out for a time that the border area is likely to lack 50 police posts. There were some who rejoiced, among others. signed, when several civilian posts were created in the context of the crisis money in the context of the financial crisis. But it has turned out in retrospect that the police in Telemark and the police in Grenland have not received enough funds to maintain the number of posts they want. And then you have this thing, which, for the people of Telemark, is probably showing up as a sort of not cherry on top of the cake, so at least the top of the tap bag: this became known to people in Telemark in 2005. Then there was an entry on local TV. There are several people today who have referred to TV 2’s feature – TV 2 came a long time later. For people in Telemark and for local media there, and it has to be assumed that also for the department – which, as far as I know, has very good media monitoring programmes to find out what is going on about the justice sector around the country – this was known in 2005. So it's been years and years and years, and nothing has happened. I must admit that I honestly thought that something was going to come in the revised budget now. But there hasn't been a penny. I think that's very bad, both for the safety of the employees who work there, and also for the safety of the people in Telemark. Here there has to be money in place, because this is a situation that is no longer sustainable, and there is a situation that cannot be resolved with more talk, new years, more discussion about who knew what, when. Now we know what we need to know, now it's time to get money on the table to solve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1098	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1114	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1123	Two representatives of the Progress Party have put forward this proposal, which, first of all, means that public services should be denied to persons who are engaged in a successful trade, and, second, that the use of a full range of garments should be prohibited in public places. The proposal is justified on grounds of public space security, in particular as a result of the fact that successful clothing impedes identification by, for example: use of public services, such as by bringing children into kindergarten. It is also referred to that it becomes more difficult to identify criminal perpetrators through surveillance. Furthermore, the proposal is based on a discussion of whether lucky garments constitute a religious mandate or whether it is a cultural tradition. The proposers conclude that the use of rich clothing is to a limited extent religiously justified. Therefore, taking into account security, religious traditions, integration and the free position of women in society, the proposers conclude by promoting the proposal, as mentioned above. A broad majority of the Judicial Committee does not support the proposal and urges Stortinget to attach the matter to the minutes. The majority emphasises the Fundamental Act § 2 on Freedom of Religion as an important democratic and social value. In addition, the European Convention on Human Rights is of great importance in facilitating tolerance, dialogue and mutual respect across religions. Therefore, the majority approach is that it is not the task of politicians to define how a religion should be practised, as long as exercise does not conflict with Norwegian law or set aside fundamental democratic principles. This view was supported by the Norwegian Church Council at the hearing of the Justice Committee on the matter. Inter-church advice highlighted the importance of the need for dialogue with the religious communities to clarify the boundaries between religious freedom and security and the freedom of others. In a society with an overwhelming Christian majority, we should be extra careful with interpretation and unjustified regulation of the religion of minorities. Inter-church advice stressed that although a majority of Muslims believe that lucky garments are not a religious duty for women, there may be some who are convinced of the opposite, and that these too have the right to practice their faith. At the same time, the majority of the committee shares the Minister of Justice's view that successful religious garments such as burka and niqab reflect a human and female vision that we want to counter. The Judicial Committee has not received an exact overview or estimate of the number of women using burka or niqab in Norway today. But all the authorities that have expressed themselves, both the Ministry of Justice and the Council of the Church of Norway, conclude that the number is very low. The rapporteurs, too, believe that there is little evidence to suggest that this is a widespread phenomenon. The majority point to the fact that a law regulating the individual's dress will mean something new in Norwegian legislation. The majority therefore believe that such a far-reaching proposal must also be assessed in relation to the extent of the problem sought. So an overall committee thinks that the number of women we're talking about here is very low. For this reason, the majority of the Committee considers that a prohibition of law is not the best instrument for changing the attitudes of a small minority, mainly men, who want women to wear lucky garments. On the contrary, France’s experience shows that the ban on religious symbols in public schools does not need to lead to integration but rather to segregation, as some girls now attend Muslim schools instead. The proposal not to allow the use of thick clothing in public spaces has several reasons on the part of the proposers. Among other things, the proposal on the safety of public spaces refers to the need for identification and to the possibility of women being forced to wear durable clothes. The majority indicate that existing legislation has the necessary means to control identity and that in the event of forced use, this is a criminal offence within the law in force. The majority would point out that in cases where a person’s face needs to be seen in order to verify the identity, it is possible to carry out such a check within existing legislation. In this case, one of the proposals implies that public services should be refused to persons who are engaged in a successful trade. The majority of the Judicial Committee takes a clear view of this proposal. On this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes that the suspension be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1149	That is, it is well the proposal that is annexed to the Minutes as part of the vote. And we're in on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1152	I fully agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur in his good report, including his starting point, that there are many strong and good reasons to be against lucky garments, among other things. equality, the rights of the Norwegian society for women, their employment opportunities, education, etc., and the ability to identify themselves. However, this attitude is widespread in Norway, also in Muslim environments, with a few exceptions. That is why, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, lucky clothes are very rare in this country, fortunately, and even we who travel a lot in the environments where it could be relevant – on the eastern edge of Oslo, where there are the greatest concentrations of people with a cultural and Muslim background – see such garments very rarely or never. I might also have a slightly simple and practical approach to this proposal, in the same way as the rapporteur, that there is little reason to work with new laws in terms of things that can be better solved, namely, that there is a broad view in Norway that we should reject these kinds of garments also in the minority communities. There is also reason to think about whether any legal prohibition, which would then affect those who wear the garment, would help achieve that purpose. If the intention is to prevent coercion and pressure and repression against these women, then the interventions must be directed at those who suppress, those who press, those who force them, and there we have legal asylums today in order to take action. I would like to work for good support measures, good things that can prevent anyone from being subjected to pressure, for repressive use of this kind of garment. But there's a question of a law that might shut down the women who might have to use it, even more inside the home's four walls, would be suitable. The majority emphasise that prevention measures that may prevent coercion, social control and repression in this field, when we are as good as we are in this area here in Norway as regards the use of these pests, are far more important – prevention and cooperation with the environments where it may be relevant, and how many of them have already taken very clear positions, and also prevention measures in the form of wider integration, inclusion, which may prevent segregation where the use of these types of pests may develop. Integration in the sense of what we are talking about is, for example: that of all children in eastern parts of Oslo, in the cultures in which this kind of garment could be present – in all these parts of the city – it is now at least 95 pst. by 4 to 5 year-olds who are in kindergarten, because we have 20 hours free of charge at kindergartens. The fact that the girls and families come in there and meet the Norwegian community in the kindergartens will be very crucial to prevent this type of phenomenon from spreading in Norway. The same applies to an inclusive school. Working because we don't get more schools that are characterized by minority environments with a particular background, but building inclusive school environments in Oslo and elsewhere in the country where that challenge exists will be crucial to avoid this kind of culture spreading, and to create a common value base in Norway, where we stand for equality for women, women's rights and opportunities, and how lucky clothing prevents it. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is passive in this broad inclusion/integration policy to which the majority wishes to refer and which will have the strongest effect in preventing us from getting more of this in Norway. With regard to the possibilities for identification and control, we refer to what the Minister of Justice also says in his reply, that it should be such an identification, and that it will be necessary to improve the law on that occasion. With regard to human rights assessments and the Convention on Human Rights, we see in the response of our Minister of Justice that those assessments are relatively clear. They are relatively clear and in line with Denmark's assessments of the Human Rights Convention. Often, the Progress Party refers to policy in Denmark, but they therefore have the same attitude as that of the majority in this House in Stortinget. Then we'll see when this decision in Belgium might be tried before the Human Rights Court. But we believe that the best way to prevent and prevent what we are all against is to cooperate with these environments on broad, preventive measures to ensure that the situation continues to be good in this area in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1169	‘You must not tolerate the wrong that does not affect you so deeply,’ said Arnulf Överland. If he had written the same words today, he must have had an exception to the general rule. He had to have had an exception to the cases in which one commits wrong and can invoke metaphysical notions as protection under freedom of religion. So religion is used as an argument to prevent freedom and rights in the same way for everyone in Norwegian society. When you look through the comments that form the basis of this case, they are OK. An overall committee believes that niqab and burka express a view of women that you want to counter. But then you choose, instead of taking the consequences of it, to hide behind international conventions in order to steer away from a completely necessary political debate on value. It is very often seen that this government does. Instead of taking the real debate, international conventions are referred to. In this case, Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is referred to, in particular. The prerequisite for using Article 9 is that burka and niqab are to be regarded as religious garments. There's nothing in the Koran about neither jar nor niqab. There is nothing to suggest – at least if you are to listen to the great majority of Muslims in the world – that these are religious garments that are thus to be protected by the EMK. It is strange that one chooses to push the EMK in front of itself and does not take the real debate, because even if the EMK had applied in this case – and I dispute that – it is the relationship in the EMK that suggests that we could still have used such a ban. The second part of Article 9 of the ECHR states quite clearly that, when necessary in a democratic society – i.e. proportionality – for reasons of public security and public order protection, where it is necessary for reasons of health and morality and for the protection of the rights of others, the prohibition shall take precedence. I'm not a lawyer, and neither am I going to be. I'm a politician. But I'm dealing with the fact that there are people living in Norway today, in 2010, who do not have the same rights in Norwegian society that we take for granted. It's primarily about equality. It's about having the same opportunities in this society. The Progress Party – and we have quite a good basis for saying that – believes that the EMC would not prevent such a ban. It's a legitimate purpose. The margin of discretion is present, and it is the country's legal tradition and morality that apply in such cases. But what's special is that every time we have this kind of debate, especially the red-green parties, the government parties, what I'm almost going to characterize as -- but I'm not going to do it -- a certain degree of confusion. We saw it in connection with the Muhammad caricatures, where you couldn't stand up for freedom of speech. We saw it again in the context of the hijab case in the police, and we saw it perhaps especially when this government was considering imposing a ban on attacks on religion and life views. And we'll see it again when equality and public security considerations are challenged. It is then decided not to hold a specific debate on the subject. It's sad and it's sad, but I see other countries in Europe going ahead and showing the way. Belgium has taken such a decision in its Parliament. It must now be dealt with in the Senate. [[President clubs]] I hope that on the next occasion, the Storting will see the wisdom of standing up for equality for all the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1184	The President just has to remind us that we are in a debate, and there are many who have signed up on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1187	Let me first say that SV believes that lucky religious garments, such as burka and niquab, are expressions of a human vision that we want to counteract. But we don't think ban and punishment are the way to go. SV is a feminist party, and has fought through the ages for freedom and equivalency for women. For us, every thought and action that hinders women's freedom is a foreigner. We have carried out awareness-raising work, have been involved in regulatory work, struggled for and implemented measures to ensure that women are treated as free and independent individuals on an equal footing with men. The proposals promoted by the Progress Party have nothing to do with equality. The Progress Party stands for a liberal view of value. This means that citizens should have the greatest possible freedom to live a life. The State shall interfere as much as possible with their lives. Does the Progress Party believe that a ban on clothing is in line with liberal values? I experience time and again that the Progress Party has one set of rules for the majority and another set of rules for Muslims. Let me do two examples. The party of progress is for private schools, but it shall not apply to Muslims. The party of progress is for religious people to have the right to exercise their religion, but not Muslims – we should not have prayers. This proposal goes into a series. The proposal to ban the use of lucky garments most likely violates our human rights obligations. The Department of Justice has concluded that the proposal could break Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The French Government's legislative body and the Ministry of Justice in Denmark have done the same. But that is not enough for the Progress Party in our country. Then I see that the Progress Party is concerned with the security of the public space. That's also SV and the government. The Minister of Justice has warned that if necessary, legislative proposals should be made. But I have not registered that the safety authorities have asked for this and said that we have a major problem here in the country and that there must be legal regulation now. So it's like proposal No. 1 which is quite interesting, and which people have to respond to. I'm responding. The proposal states that the Progress Party wishes to ‘refuse to provide public services to persons who are engaged in a successful trade.’ What does that mean? Does that mean that a lady who wears lucky clothes, and who is hit by a bus, will be denied ambulance assistance? Does that mean that a lady who goes in a jar will not get help from the police if she is subjected to abuse? I hope that someone from the Advance Party will respond to this. So it's like I've spent almost all my adult life fighting for all women to have an independent life where they have control of their own bodies, their own souls, and where they are free to make their own choices in terms of education, careers, life patterns and partners. I believe that this proposal has nothing to do with it. For example, what is right and important to help women get out and become independent people are: full child care coverage, allowing women to be sent to kindergarten and thus freed of time to undertake education, to build and strengthen networks, to take work, to become economically independent and to stand upright in Norwegian society. What promotes integration is just giving little girls the opportunity to go to kindergarten and learn the language, so that they don't spend time learning languages when other kids spend time learning math and science. Thus, the good students and independent individuals come out into society, can claim – and get the rights that this society and all the laws and regulations in the country give them as adults. That's what promotes integration. The proposals of the Progress Party tend to lead to headlines here and there, but they do not promote integration. Now they have to start looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1206	Like a liberal, democratic society, we're going to get into some dilemmas. We want people to live a free life under responsibility. Women's struggle has resulted in many of the same possibilities for women's and careers in this country to realize their abilities and dreams. When we get new countrymen with fundamental other attitudes to democracy and equality, it goes without saying that there may be problems. These have to be solved by one on the one hand seeing and appreciating that the majority of those who are coming are a very positive asset to our society. On the other hand, some of those who come, hold and value are far from the values on which our society is built. Forcing women's people's garments that cover parts of or the whole body of theirs, with the foundation that is used for both hijab, burka and niqab, is not liberal. But refusing to wear certain clothes is not particularly liberal either. In this is the dilemma for me. That dilemma is, I'm surprised that the Progress Party doesn't see. Perhaps they are less concerned with the care of women and more about marking the party's skepticism of immigration in general. A ban on certain garments is not something that the Center Party will go in for, although I personally thicken the container is a hopeless invention. I would like to stress that the goal must be that no one in Norway should be forced to dress as we know many other places in the world. Forcing someone is already a criminal offence. It is good insofar as it is easy to discover that covering is done by force and not by free will. It's just this is not easy. It might be about religious overinterpretation, but it's just as much about power and renunciation. If the aim is for women with an immigration background to have the same potential to realise their abilities and dreams as ethnic Norwegian women, there are many other measures that should and must be implemented and that will have a far greater effect than a possible ban on whole-discovered clothing. The problem is not that women go hidden behind such clothes — there is hardly anyone who does it in Norway — but rather that immigrant women are not sufficiently integrated. They have an opportunity to get an education and a job and to participate in society as equivalent citizens. It won't only count for them, it'll count for their own kids as well. With so many good intentions on equality and integration as expressed by the representatives of the Progress Party in this matter, I must say that I am looking forward to all the good actions and proposals that will come forward in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1219	"I deeply disagree with what you say, but will defend until my death your right to say so." Unfortunately, I am not the one who has come to these words; they are written by Voltaire. One of the pillars of a legal state is precisely the right to express — freedom of expression, which is closely linked to freedom of religion. When I hear some politicians say, I notice that this right might not be as strong anymore. The Christian People's Party has a strong commitment to equality and to all women's repressive practices. We know that there are situations where women are directly and indirectly forced to wear clothing like burka and niqab. This is what's important to fight against. It must be done with legal means, and it must be done through a targeted integration work that promotes a human vision and a woman’s vision based on equivalency. The Christian People's Party does not see that imposing a ban on whole-discovering clothing will be a good tool in this work. Nor do we see that the arguments put forward can justify such an intervention. But before we trace the whole story: A study from Denmark shows that there are three people using a burka in Denmark. In the Netherlands there are 50 of one million Muslims. In France, there are four million Muslims, and 367 of them – or about. 0.009 pst. – covers the face with a jar. If we transfer this to Norway, we can count the number of Muslims using a burka in two hands. I am concerned that the playoffs of the Progress Party and the proposal to introduce a dress code in line with what they have in Iran may be counterproductive. I fear that it will take focus away from the real integration challenges, such as language, education, work, forced marriage and action against radicalisation. Another argument is that one will force and suppress women. It is a deliberate Christian People's Party that fully shares, but the paradox in the proposal is that what we are discussing today is that whoever uses the garment, that is, woman, becomes responsible – not the person who performs the coercion. It is also claimed by the representative Amundsen that the use of these plagues is not mandatory according to Muslim rules, but more is a cultural expression. It may be very good to vote, but it is problematic that the public – and the representative Amundsen – should define what is a correct understanding of religion, and how it should be practiced. Because even though there is only a small minority who use whole-discovered garments for religious reasons, it is protected by the freedom of trust. Is it not just that when it comes to a small group, about minorities and those who are against the current, the real respect and the real need for freedom of trust are being tested? This is where my main argument against the proposal lies. Freedom of men and women and the right to express their faith are among the most fundamental human rights, which the state must safeguard and defend. When legal experts from several countries believe that a general ban on public space-wide clothing is probably contrary to Article 9 of the ECHR, there is reason to believe that one should not go further on that track. Norway has gone from being a relatively separate society to becoming a much more diverse community in recent years. Religious life is characterized by a strong Christian cultural heritage that has been important to shape today's Norway on the one hand, and an ever-increasing religious deficiency, and secularization, on the other. In this landscape, a certain degree of insecurity and population may be traced among some politicians in the management of issues related to the freedom of faith and religion in society. I think that the proposal to ban niqab and the jar in the public space is going into the line of poorly thought-out demands for prohibitions that do not stand when they are being tried against the freedom of trust. Other examples that we have up are the prohibition of religious schools, the ban on hijab, and religious symbols, or the glorification of crucifixes, as the proponents would like. When it comes to women's oppression and extreme Islamism, it must fight with legal instruments. It must be met with a bold defence and dissemination of our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage. The one who is safe on his own identity is also the one who is best equipped for dialogue. We need to give schools and trust societies the opportunity to provide children and young people with training in cultural heritage and in faith. We must stop hiding religion in the public space, but rather value the social forces of religion. This last and broad perspective will also be the theme of an interpellation debate tomorrow, travelled by Dagfinn Højbrätten to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1242	The use of burkas, niqabs and other lucky garments challenges us in several ways. Firstly, the use of protruding garments affects the possibility of communication and interaction between people. Secondly, such clothing raises questions about central values such as freedom, equality and equivalency. Like the committee, I disagree with the human and female views of the use of burka and niqab. Folkly speaking, I see it as a udder. The challenges and differences lie in the question of how best to safeguard women's freedom and rights, and the instruments that will be most effective and appropriate to prevent women from being forced to wear these kinds of lucky garments. I don't think prohibition and punishment are the right way to go. This often creates more tension and confrontation, and does not solve the underlying problem. In my letter to the Committee on 21 April, I have explained that a general ban on the use of lucky garments in public spaces could easily conflict with the human rights provisions, but also with the freedom of religion as protected in our own constitution. After all, there are no clear case-law of the European Court of Human Rights or other international courts or bodies which establish that such a prohibition would be contrary to freedom of religion. However, as pointed out earlier in the debate, both Denmark, the Ministry of Justice and France have reached the same conclusion as the Ministry of Justice here in Norway. After I sent my letter to the Justice Committee, the Belgian House of Commons has adopted a general ban on clothing covering the face, and in France a similar ban has recently been dealt with by the government and is expected to be adopted by Parliament during the summer. I don't see this as a basis for a different view of the relationship with the EMK than what I have expressed. In Belgium, I am not aware of any extensive investigation into the relationship with the Convention, and in France, the government's advisory expert body on legal issues issued an opinion in March, on the grounds that a general prohibition would probably be contrary to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the ECHR. Most likely it will take time for us to get a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights. In the meantime, I believe that we must assume that a ban could easily conflict with our obligations. As highlighted by the majority of the Committee, we already have a number of instruments to control the identity of people where it is needed. In response to the representative Amundsen, I think that is exactly what the majority – by an excellent speech by the case-rapporteur, also the representative Bøhler – points out. You don't cover behind the EMK, you go into a real discussion: what's actually useful? There I would just like to stress what the representative, Mr Bøhler, also points to in relation to the challenge we face with regard to the issue of integration. Of course, in the cases where women are directly forced to wear lucky garments, this must be taken seriously. Forces are already punishable, and it is more appropriate to target the offender than to ban the use. The latter will primarily affect the woman, whether she wears the garment under coercion or voluntarily. Moreover, I believe it is important that we do all we can to avoid women using this kind of clothing, and that, through the work on inclusion and integration in society in all areas, we ensure that these provide the best opportunity for both education, participation in the labour market and well-being. I would also like to point out that with regard to the real discussion, which the rapporteur's statement – and the majority of others – brings forward in this debate, it is almost incomprehensible how to use the words of Arnulf Upperland – «You must not tolerate so much the injustice that does not affect you» – in this context, when at the same time it is proposed that public services to those affected should actually fall away. I am sure that Arnulf Överland would have thought in such a debate – without drawing it too far – that these words were for the protection of women who are deprived of rights in such a forced situation, and that injustice would really happen if one accepted the proposal of the Progress Party that public services should fall away. It is a huge dilemma to suggest that those who are subjected to this type of coercion are imposed, even greater burdens — some of the most coercive things you can do, the punishment. That the instrument of punishment is directed at women, that is not easy. Such a criminal ban could also easily serve as a real cushion for other types of action. And as the representative of Bohemia was involved, we are also at risk in many ways of shutting more people in, so that we cannot participate in constructive integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1270	I'm not going to try to make this a fight about Arnulf Upperland, but I think one should have in mind that Upperland was probably the last one to be sued after the blasphemy paragraph in Norway. He actually had some critical attitudes to religion in society. He would probably have been convicted if the government had implemented its ban on attacks on religion and life's vision, so I think the Council of State should be a little careful to take Arnulf Upperland to income for its sight. But it's a little strange, this discussion about Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So now you can see that France might introduce a ban, and Belgium has already done so in the first reading, and it is now going to be dealt with for the second time in the Senate. What are these countries not understanding, as the Justice Department has obviously understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1277	It is not for me to answer what other countries had to use in terms of human rights obligations. But now, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen made every effort to accuse the red-green government and the majority of them of hiding behind the human rights tab – and the first thing to do in the turn of the line is to draw it out. I'd rather challenge Per-Willy Amundsen to look at this: what kind of effect would a ban actually have for the women affected by this kind of coercive behaviour? And is it true that women living in such situations – those who have to put on such clothing against their will – should actually lose the public services that could help them to integrate? That is the real debate. And then it surprises me that the Progress Party in its first line is beginning to measure the perception of human rights standards in other countries. If we are really going to have a real debate on this, as Per-Willy Amundsen wants, we should look at exactly what kind of consequences it will have here in Norway if we take away the women who had to wear such clothes, public services. That's an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1282	Let's see. The right and state councils agree on a principle basis, and the right uses, like the state council, not the EMK as a kind of crutch, but as a support argument for a common value-based position. This will be a quick debate for and against the Progress Party. I think that's a rather uninteresting debate, but what's interesting to discuss is: What does the Council of State think is the most important thing to do to help effectively the women that this is about, regardless of the position you have on the issue of ban or not against the jar?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1289	It is very difficult to point to one measure that is most important, but I believe several of the representatives in the debate have already pointed to the set of instruments we actually have. What it's all about, which I think is very important, is that we come in very early to young girls, and that the school as the community arena becomes absolutely crucial. Fortunately, there's a few that we see carrying this kind of garment, but that doesn't mean that we have to rest, that means that we have to be active to prevent more people from wearing such garments. I believe that school and school interventions – ensuring that we have good participation from families with a minority background in Norwegian general school – are crucial. I also believe that pulling more of these women into the workplace is absolutely crucial, not only in relation to the kind of clothing you wear, but also in terms of the overall integration work. Then, last but not least, I would point out that it would be important to be able to bring up criminal cases related to men who use coercive measures against women, whether in the case of clothing or other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1296	The use of durable garments creates many challenging issues. Now we have understood that the Council of State will not be involved in a general ban on the use of such garments in public spaces. There are many issues. There may be everything from security challenges, identification when coming to a public office and demanding their rights, bringing children to kindergarten, school, etc. Many Norwegian social institutions, enterprises, etc. need to have significant security controls in order to allow people to enter the enterprise or institution, inter alia. The size. Does the Council of State think it would be okay to, for example: The size refuses people to come in with lucky clothes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1301	In terms of all the security measures we have in society, and insofar as rules and practices relating to the provision of public services – for example: passport, that they enter passport control, that they enter public buildings – that is, people have to find themselves in having to give up identity. That's why I'm perfectly clear that to the extent that there's any problems around this, we're ready to look at rules if they're not adequate. But so far, it doesn't seem that this has been a significant problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1306	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1311	It is such that this is already quite well affected. It was good to see that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party now came into the Chamber, because it gives her the opportunity to answer a difficult question of principle which has already emerged clearly in this debate. The party of progress is determined to become a party of government. Does the Progress Party believe that it is now going to invite the Storting to the legal principle that if people don't dress as we think they should dress, they don't have the right to public services? Think about it — what it really means to the case law in Norway, if it is to be established! In fact, I would say: this is a very serious question, and the leadership of the Progress Party should answer in this room how they think that the case law should be established in the future, in principle. With regard to the matter, I would like to say briefly that, of course, the Norwegian Labour Party, with all its power, wants to combat all forms of female repression. Our whole story has been characterized by it. But the tool we're using is the tool that the Progress Party has been talking about for years. They've called it state feminism, when we've used different instruments to just make sure that women get space in Norwegian society. I allow myself to say that I am old enough to have been with you for so long that I remember Trygve Bratteli taking the initiative in 1972, using the various instruments of society to really economic and social achieve equality, and thus ensure that women do not get oppressed. It is this way – step by step in the social-democratic sphere – that has actually led to Norwegian society becoming one of the most equal in the world, and that all forms of oppression are no longer styrofoaming. The Norwegian Labour Party has been at the forefront in many ways to counter oppression even within our own church, just by taking the cultural battle. But the Progress Party has always shadowed it away. Then, finally, what I think has been said a little too carefully, so I say it directly: I think the Progress Party is doing this as part of its expeditious struggle to place the immigrant population in a different place than we would otherwise like it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1318	The President will recall that the proposals of the Progress Party have not yet been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1321	Niqab, jars and other whole-discovering garments have nothing to do in Norwegian society. We have to be clear about this and tell those who come to Norway that we don't accept it. In the same way as Nordics who move to other countries, must also respect norms and cultures in the countries to which we move, we must also demand certain things from foreigners who move to Norway. These include: that whole-covered garments are not available in Norway. We've just been in the Middle East, two months ago, with the Defence College, and I just have to say that I thought it was sad and wanted to see young girls – at least after heights to judge – who went with whole-covering garments, and who could look forward to a whole life without identity, behind whole-covering garments for the rest of their lives. We don't want it like that in Norway. I also got a niqab with me. [[The representative holds up a niqab.]] If the president is afraid that I'll put him on the speaker's chair, I won't do it, out of respect for the mariners. But it's such a garment as this that the plural thinks it should be allowed to walk around in the public space. I want to invite all the women here to come to me afterwards, and then we can go out to the hiking hall, and then they can put this on. Then I am absolutely sure that no one believes that any woman is putting this on and walking around with such a garment on a voluntary basis. Either it's a brainwashing, or it's an influence on the environment to go with something like that. No one makes it voluntary. Another challenge with niqab, jars and whole-covered garments is, of course, that one can't see the identity. One cannot know if it is a oppressed woman who has good intentions, a meeting at Karl Johan, or about it, for example. is a man who has evil intentions, criminal purposes, intents of crime, terrorism, attacks, and that kind of thoughts in his head. It creates a challenge for Norwegian society, it creates a security threat. That's why I hope and wish the Storting had agreed to a ban, because this is something that doesn't belong at home in the Norwegian community. We have to be clear about that, and we have to put our foot down for that. Those who come to Norway must respect some minimum standards, and suppressing women and allowing whole-covered clothing cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1331	I think it might be in place to remind the previous speaker about his party's position in the prostitution debate, where the Progress Party argued that the woman could choose to be a prostitute. I also agree with the representative that elections and volunteering are not always that simple, but the difference between us and you is that we will punish those who oppress the woman, and not those who are oppressed. The Progress Party would like to promote a gleam of Equality Norway when it comes to swearing to the minority population. The representative Amundsen argues with religious freedom and uses exactly the same conventions that the Progress Party used earlier this year as they wanted religious communities not to be except for the Norwegian Equality Act and the Norwegian Labour Environment Act. Then the Progress Party argued that it was important that religious communities could break Norwegian gender equality law. I believe that it shows that the Progress Party is only concerned with equality when they can use it to swear minorities, and that this proposal goes into a number of other proposals in that context. This proposal will in practice make it more difficult for the minority women who most need to move in public space, who most need to use public services, and who most need to get jobs and education. The consequences of this proposal are to link many minority women to the home. We know what's going on for women's liberation. We know that the only thing that monks, the only thing that helps, is that women become financially independent – their own money between their hands. It gives freedom to withdraw from violent husbands, it gives freedom to create their own home. That doesn't have to depend on being cared for by a father or a brother or a husband. It also gives the freedom to throw the jar. This was the recipe of the Norwegian Women's Movement. Many in this room want to collect the winner for Norway to experience a high level of equality. Let's say that it had never happened without the demands of the women's movement on education and work. This would never have happened if conservative Norway had still linked women to the home, linked women to the kitchen bench. Instead of continuing the cash support, instead of imposing a ban that makes it more difficult for minority women to stay in the public space and thus more difficult to get a job and education, I suggest that we do the opposite. I suggest that for minority women we require the same thing as we do for ourselves, a life of freedom – nothing more, nothing less. We will start by voting down this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1342	Today’s debate must not leave the impression that the majority of the Storting believe that it is right or acceptable that women use garments that restrict their freedom, prevent equality and stand in the way of integration into Norwegian society. In addition, the garments are a symbol that women are considered to be second-class people who are not supposed to appear to be hidden away, who are not individuals. Face-to-face clothing such as burka and niqab does not belong in a democratically equal society as Norwegian. So the question is, is the prohibition of law the right way to go? Forces are already prohibited in Norway, including imprisonment. The one or those who force can be punished. The question today is whether we should also punish women who use such clothing, and take away the rights that everyone else has. Should the police have the task of following what people are wearing? Are there really to be a requirement for a particular form of dress for people to receive public benefits? When the Stortinget debated the prohibition of the purchase of sexual services in November 2008, the representatives of the Progress Party argued against a ban. Solved Horne justified the party's position in the following way: we can't criminalize everything we don't like. She also warned against symbolism. Today, we have a completely different attitude from the representatives of the Progress Party. Today's proposal is a very good example of the representative Horne warned against in 2008. It's not every day that I applaud the executive article in Today's Business, but on 22 May the paper stated that the Progress Party is more concerned about women being forced to dress than about women being forced to prostitute. It's a cross of thought and a bit of an attitude from a party that claims they're concerned with equality and integration. The Labour Party has no objection to using legislation to solve social problems. Today, we are in the majority voting against this proposal, for this proposal will work against its purpose, create isolation and segregation over participation and integration. In addition, the proposal requires that the oppressed person be penalised and deprived of his rights. It does not solve any problems, and it creates more of the injustice that Per-Willy Amundsen is said to be so concerned about, the injustice that does not affect us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1355	The principle principle of the right is that bans are used when prohibitions work and that prohibitions do not harm persons who are innocent. That's why the Right would not criminalize the purchase of sex, not for the sake of the customers, but because a ban would hit the people you said they would help, namely the individual prostitute indirectly. Then the Right and Advance Party were on the same principal line. Similar challenges exist when we discuss a possible ban on begging. The kind of fundamental discussions we also have to take: who is what we are helping or not helping with a ban? Prohibiting those you're saying you're going to help, in fact access to stay out is difficult to see is a special help. Help must consist of social measures, and not least, as the Council of State stated, that we are enforcing all the criminal penalties that an overburdened police has been given the task of enforcing. The representative Amundsen said he was not a lawyer, but a politician. Juss can, of course, be used and abused and hinder development, but juss is also the tool to take care of those who are not in majority, and which the majority can quickly go against because politicians without a reason, anchoring, in democratic values can quickly be a little loose on the trigger. No one is leaning on the EMK, or leaning on the Constitution almost passively, but the EMK and the Constitution are pretty good to have. They're made in a reasonable reflection and in peace for a moment when fools put together and thought about and what would be the consequence if you didn't have a certain type of regulation as protected minorities. What you know is that if you start to relax on that attitude, and the alternating majority in the affect takes decisions after decisions on individual minorities, there's finally no room left for any of us. I think that this debate deserves us to discuss abuse and violence against women, not the Progress Party. To this end, the debate is simply too important and the question of integration is too complex and difficult. We have had a wide range of debates on this issue. So it's not like the majority won't do anything, they haven't seen the challenges, they don't know anything about the problem. We simply believe that the instrument will not work, plus that it is a value error. We have to start discussing: what do you do to help the women who have been forced on an attraction they don't want? You don't help them by preventing them from moving. So, finally, it creates enough headlines, this proposal. The question is whether it creates a better society for the women you say to help. The right answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1372	This proposal for a representative raises some important questions of principle, to which I do not think there is a simple answer, such as: prohibit protractive clothing and stop public performance. For me who grew up with a mother who has fought for women's rights and for women to become equal in Norwegian society, and is part of a party that puts gender equality as one of the most important issues to be dealt with locally and internationally, it is difficult to accept that women should be covered with burka or niqab, whatever the reason is. These lucky plagues take away their identity from women, and they inhibit them in communication with other people, but I'm against banning these plagues in the public space. First of all, because I think it's wrong to ban things just because we don't like it. Secondly, the women in Norway who use these plagues, I'm afraid will not be in the public room at all if there is a ban. In the fight against involuntary use of burkas and niqab, we need to use a set of instruments. The penal code has rules that sanction those who force people to wear such clothes. I think that we have a lot to learn about information work in the relevant environments – that women are given information about their rights, and that everyone is given information about what is punishable when it comes to forcing someone to use these plagues, and what we in Norway define as coercion. The Labour Party wants women coming to Norway to be well integrated into Norwegian society. It takes place through dialogue, education and working life. The debate we have here today shows that there will be challenges in Norwegian society when our values and social views are put to the test in meeting religious and cultural customs that we do not want here in the country. The proposers argue that the safety of Norwegian society is not safeguarded because women cover themselves and hide their identity. I think the security issue is the least problem about the use of burka in Norway, but it's a big problem that some women limit their ability to be an individual and have their own identity. The working party and government will continue to prevent and reduce the use of thick clothing, including: with the tools I have outlined here in my article, and with a good integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1389	I have followed this debate with great interest. I have recorded that all the speakers, from all the parties, have struggled with a considerable number of flakes, many of them flakes in which it is easy to agree, namely: we're all going to fight and counteract the use of lucky headgear. It's a symbol of second-class people. It doesn't belong here in Norway. We need to protect minorities. A life of freedom. We must punish those who oppress. All of these are very nice words. The problem is that when you read the position of the majority, you're more concerned with arguing against the proposals of the Progress Party than with making proposals that can actually help the minority we're talking about here. For the truth, these women basically have a place in society in the same line with me and all the other women – formally, but not really, because they live in a situation that is coercive. My challenge to the majority is: How in every day has it been planned to reveal this? I heard that the Minister of Justice's answer to what to do for these women was three things. One was that school was an important arena. The second was that you had to drag these women into the workplace. The third was that you had to get more criminal cases up. How do you intend to do that? These are women who basically live at home on the kitchen bench, who live in hiding, and who only have the opportunity to go out in certain situations. They do not have the opportunity to apply for a job. They don't have the opportunity to participate in the same line with all of us in normal community activities. That's the situation for these girls. Many of them lie deliberately because they don't dare tell the truth when they're confronted with it, because it's too unpleasant, the penalties at home are too tough. That's the reality these women meet. That is why I find it quite unbearable to follow this debate, where one is more concerned about telling how crazy the Progress Party is, rather than even pointing to measures and measures that would actually help this minority, because they are, in fact, completely without protection and protection as our society is designed. They are completely abandoned to their husbands who have no ambition whatsoever to release them. I would like the Minister of Justice to respond to how every day he intends to bring forward more criminal cases in which he can prove that coercion has taken place. It depends on the fact that the victim himself – the woman herself – is willing to stand up and acknowledge that she is in such a situation, and I should like to see that it is going to happen in the cases we are actually facing. This is about getting identity for minority women in Norway. That is what this debate is about, and I am disappointed that the majority is not willing to problem it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1402	According to practice, the President is somewhat in doubt as to whether 'bottle' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1405	It's very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1410	At least you should consider it. There are also many other good expressions to use as alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1413	The representative, Siv Jensen, said that the majority is only concerned with proposing to the Progress Party. No, that's not the case. Firstly, it is not the Progress Party that has raised this debate. This proposal for a representative is technically the proposals of the Progress Party, but others have raised the debate before them. It is important to stress that it is not the Advance Party that is the premiscible supplier of how, for example: The working party deals with major and important fundamental issues of this kind. I have been asked some questions about how it might be that we – with the exception of the Progress Party – deliver a unanimous position here today, with reference to the debate that has taken place in the media. It's very easy to answer. The Labour Party has not, for its part, taken a final position on the issue of the prohibition of law as a good or less good instrument in this matter. We are committed to achieving equality between women and men in all environments, and in this respect we are all fully in agreement that it is not enough to get drawn with the Norwegian index finger. Any prohibition must come after dialogue with the person concerned, both women and men. It may be necessary to put a ban in context with more concrete action on gender equality – to give everyone the right to an identity in society and to give everyone the right to be included in the society in which they live. There is no need to hide that there are shared opinions in the Workers' Party on the matter. It is a big and fundamental matter that individual members cannot decide on their own, either the Workers' Party's big group. It is the national meeting that addresses major issues such as this. We have a national meeting next spring, and we're going to prepare ourselves thoroughly for a good inclusion debate that also takes the women's perspective into consideration. Then we're going to put the question of burka or non-burka in its proper context. The Progress Party on its side – as I said – is therefore promoting this proposal after the debate has been raised by others. I see it as an attempt to surf a wave of dissatisfaction and negative attitudes, and I justify that on the grounds that the Progress Party itself uses, that the emphasis is on the safety of Norwegian society and not on the question of including and integrating immigrant women. When we look at this in the context of the Progress Party programme, which says outright that one will limit the number of people from non-Western countries – even refugees who are entitled to protection in Norway – along with the repeated proposals of the Progress Party on language training cuts, social skills, cuts in the integration grants of municipalities, etc., it speaks in a clear way, and it should not be premissive of how we deal with this debate. Then we're going to take another important point, so that we get a balanced and good debate on this further that's going to be about equality in its entirety. We should also be careful – in the name of tolerance – to welcome intolerance and women's oppression, because equality has been fought by the Norwegian women's movement, and that applies to all women living in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1428	Whole-covering clothing is an obstacle to inclusion, and it also represents a woman's vision and human vision that I clearly distance from. That is why I am also willing to assess all good measures that can help women who are under pressure or under compulsion. It's a pleasure if the Progress Party has been involved in women's rights and equality, but I find the argument in the proposal somewhat strange. It is argued that burka is a security threat that facilitates crime and bank robbery, and only in the last section of the proposal comes a sentence that women and girls may be subject to coercion. Forcing us to take a clear distance from, and that's why today's criminal law prohibits threatening or forcing someone to do something they don't want to do. It's about criminalizing someone who's being coerced, not criminalizing the victim. We don't help these women by adding another burden to them. We don't help these women by labeling them criminals. I am afraid that this proposal will make the situation worse for the women concerned. I'm afraid that the girls and women who today wear lucky clothes will be further stigmatized and isolated from the rest of society. The most serious thing about the proposal, however, is that the Progress Party, in addition to a ban, is proposing to refuse public benefits to persons who behave in a successful manner. Questions have been asked about what that means. I have not yet received a good answer in this debate. I wish we could get some answers. Is it also such that the Progress Party can refuse other criminals to receive public benefits? Or is it just Muslim women this should apply? Then I have to say that it is very interesting that the Progress Party uses Professor Tariq Ramadan as a witness of truth to defend its positions in the comments. Ramadan is known, debated and controversial, both among Muslims and non-Muslims. During the World Conference on Freedom of Speech in Oslo last year, Ramadan was strongly challenged at its position on the death penalty and stoning. It might have been tempting to ask whether the Progress Party will also use Ramadan as a witness of truth and authority when they want stricter penalties in Norway. But I don't have to. I believe that integration is the best way through the community – that children go to kindergarten, that different people meet in primary school, by strengthening Norwegian education and work for all. We must play with all the good forces that exist in the Muslim communities today, and we must support the women who fight for liberation, and not punish them. It might not create the same size headlines in the papers, and it might not be as simple as that. But it doesn't make it any less wise for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1443	Rarely have I experienced a debate in which, on the part of the majority, you have tried to compensate what you can because you simply lack good arguments. One argument used here – the representative Chaudhry brought it up in his post when he was problematic about car accidents – is that a woman carrying niqab would not get help from the ambulance. It shows a little bit of the level of this debate. Of course that's not what we're talking about. To be absolutely clear, it should be a matter of course that when you like. seeking a Nav office and requesting benefits, it should be possible to make an appropriate declaration of their identity. That is what we are talking about here in this proposal. Then you use as argument that this applies to so few people. Yeah, that's right. For the time being, not many people carry niqab and burka in Norway. It's a very small comfort for those who are forced to do it. This is a problem that is going to increase in the years to come. There will be more and more who wear successful religious garments. That would make it all the more difficult to introduce a ban. Therefore, Stortinget would have been wise if you had already made a clear signal. Then there's a double morality here that's completely insane. We're against using the law, it's said from several red-green representatives, to ban or adopt things we're against, or we don't like. So there are representatives of the same parties who are willing to use the law, with coercive measures, to ensure the representation of women in boards of Norwegian companies. There you are willing to use the law, but you are not willing to do so to ensure fundamental rights for all citizens of this country. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get It is also strange to use EMK again – you jump back and push it in front of you, because the same government is willing to go against the European Convention on Human Rights when it comes to banning political advertising on Norwegian television. You're willing to challenge conventions in a small case like that. However, with regard to fundamental human rights for minority women in this country, there is no willingness to address the same challenge. It shows a double morale that you rarely see in this hall. It is also reflected in the level of arguments used. If the EMK is a problem with respect to the rights of all people, the EMK is the problem, and not that everyone should have the same rights in the Norwegian community. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1459	I do not know if the representative Per-Willy Amundsen has intended to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1462	Yes, I would like to comment on our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1467	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1470	It is still very striking that the team of the Progress Party accuses the majority of hiding behind the EMK, while as a four-pointer to the EMK in this debate, it is the representative of the Progress Party. In the case-rapporteur Anders B. Werep's distinguished contributions, I heard real, good arguments that stand very well independent of all conventions. But it's also good to rely on conventions when you have good arguments. The representative, Siv Jensen, points out that these are women 'without protection and protection' and challenges the majority on how we can position them. I believe this is an important debate. The fact that violence and abuse are now evident in close relationships — and this is also true of women from other countries in Norway — with the good help of the majority of the population to build arenas, whether crisis centres, children’s homes, aid lawyers, who are public service providers, who meet these women, and to raise the number of cases to almost a double shows that it is also useful to get into very closed environments. It is striking to me that the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, is also turning away to answer the question raised by the representative Kolberg. When there are women, as she says, ‘without protection and protection’, is it right that we should exclude these women without protection and protection of the public service? That is what I think this debate deserves an answer. Is it the case that they should not be able to participate in the aid lawyer scheme? Is it the case that they are not able to participate in publicly funded crisis centres and children's homes when they are subjected to coercion and abuse? You have to give an answer to that. I understand that it's difficult to answer that, and that it's okay to just shift responsibility to the majority and say that now you have to answer what you're going to do. But in this debate, where there is a concrete proposal related to this, I think it deserves an answer – with respect to reporting. Many of these women actually deserve an increased supply of public services. In many respects in terms of integration, but also in terms of problematic behaviour, the problem is that we cannot get in the position of many enough, while we see that many of the measures that have been taken over many years actually work. We can't start cutting it now. So if there is any kind of freedom aspect in this debate, it had to be that this offer to these women needs to be strengthened, and more people have to be able to participate in it. Then it's also tempting to think about the party that does drastic cuts, among other things. in the integration grant, which is perhaps the most important specific single instrument we have to integrate and enable municipalities to take care of these women as well – yes, it is the Progress Party that goes in the front to cut there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1483	I note that the Chief Speaker of the Advance Party, Per-Willy Amundsen, turns up both volume and adjective use as the debate progresses. I take it as a sign that he feels that the pressure is increasing. Let me just make it clear, since Amundsen accuses us of hiding behind the EMK: No, I would have been against this proposal even if the EMK had not existed. I would also like to stress that I note that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, did not comment on Martin Kolberg's challenge of commenting on the principle that people should be able to refuse public services because they dress in a certain way. If they fall on the street, they should of course be able to get emergency hospital treatment. Then Amundsen shows that when you get in to Nav or to the police and have a passport, you have to know who you have in front of you. It's a matter of course. It's a matter of course, and we don't have to ban certain garments for that. So the representative, Siv Jensen, said that the purpose is to help women who live in it is to have to put on such clothing, they live in hiding and cannot go out. Does the representative Jensen think they will be allowed to go out more often when it is forbidden for them to wear such clothes? That's not the way to fight it, which others have been in. The party of progress is trying to make this proposal a struggle for equality and for weak women. The soundtrack that the Progress Party wants to play on with this proposal is quite different. There's the immigration creature out there. It's, as the representative Kolberg said in plain language, to place the immigrants outside the community. In the Day Revy on March 5, this year, Per-Willy Amundsen said that the Progress Party would ban glamorous religious symbols in primary school. On questions from the reporter about how large the cross had to be for it to be magnificent, the answer was: Small crosses or half moons are relatively harmless. There are glamorous religious symbols to be banned. So he got a new question: Should the germinal skirts also be banned? We need to take a closer look at that, replied Amundsen. So that's what you think in a ban party, because that's what the Progress Party has become. So what started out as a party against public intervention and bureaucracy and for lower taxes has now become a party for public intervention, even in the clothing path. I think the party should listen to Solvency Horne and what she said in the debate on sex bans – as someone else has also quoted: we can't always criminalize everything we don't like. That was a good advice that the party should take on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1505	What still stands as an unanswered question in the matter of this proposal is: how do we help victims, who in this case are women, by punishing them? That question has still not been answered. The experience from other countries — I showed in my previous speech on the case to France — shows that what the proposers want with the ban line is counterproductive, namely that women are retreating into even more closed environments. I do not think anyone in this Chamber wants that, nor do the proposers. On the right, we are concerned that there is integration policy to solve the obvious challenges that proposers are addressing and that are important. Integration policy is designed to address those challenges. I and we demand that there be a larger and wider place in the continuation when we are going to take this matter further, so that we can get these women literally into the light by removing the veil.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1514	I'm probably not able to get up the volume as much as the representative of the Progress Party in terms of the commitment to this. Let's see this a little bit in a historical perspective. Let's see it in a long historical perspective. How many times has it happened that politics has tried to get ladies to dress in a certain way? How many times have we not discussed what is sinful and not sinful, what is right according to our standards, and what is unfinded? It's not that often we discuss men's dress, but ladies' dress has been discussed throughout history. In principle, it is quite similar to what the Progress Party is now doing, and what the Taliban is doing: it points out that ladies should either go like that or dress like that, if not it's not right in relation to our values. And that policy has done at all times. I live next door to these ladies. I know that there are so many that it would take Per-Willy Amundsen a little evening to call everybody and talk to them and maybe get their stories about why things are just like they are. It has never happened that women have been released by law decisions that they have been against. Women have been freed from women's struggles and from women's being able to take that battle maritime. I know stories about letting go of the veil. You can get those stories if you go to any of the good Norwegian courses, the good integration courses. There the teachers tell of buttoned ladies with veils and with a high coverage of the body when they come in, who eventually learn that Norwegian society is not as scary as you first have the impression. The fact that we have another way of talking to each other, another way of associating with men, does not mean that we have a sexual morality that is dramaticly different. All the safety signals ultimately cause the veil to fall. That's how you release. That's how you actually let people get away. And this is the same party that wants to cut the funds for the kind of course that we know actually makes the veil fall! I would also like to have discussed a lot about men's clothing. I also live near men who go very strictly religiously clothed, but I guess that's not part of this discussion. I think we're going to have a slightly backward view of this, and then we have to see it a little bit in the historical perspective. Then I am a little afraid that the cheerfulness will swing us more than the great provocation. Because it's about women being reformed over time, and this is just getting into the line of politicians who are going to decide what's right and what's wrong with what we're going to wear. We should learn that we shouldn't find ourselves in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1529	It has been claimed by the Progress Party in the debate that the majority is not occupied by the women who go with the burka, hijab or niqab. I must say that if one had followed the debate carefully, one view had been that everyone who has spoken against a ban has been concerned about how we can help them. I would rather say that the proposal and the section of the track push the integration debate over, make it harder to talk about measures to improve integration, because it becomes so radical. One goes away from what the integration debate really should be about, that is, how to avoid female oppression and coercion, and how to get more people to train and get more people to work, etc. That's what I think is stupid about the proposal and the remark it gets in the media. What worries me, too, is when the Progress Party is talking about double standards, because if there is anyone who should admit that they have double standards in these kinds of issues, it is precisely the Progress Party – especially when the representative from the Progress Party stresses that if this violates human rights, it is the human rights it is wrong to do. It worries me. For me, this debate is just about religious freedom. It's about someone who sees it as a religious symbol, and then one like it or not like it. But I think that human rights should be a part of protecting minorities, who must be allowed to believe what they want, and because they think it's religious, they must be allowed to do it. Then it helps very little what politicians come to from the point of view, either for or against, because it's just those who are going to be allowed to decide it. That's why I think the problem with the proposals of the Progress Party is that it shows a very small understanding of what religion means to humans, and how to express religion in the public space. Finally, I would like to comment on a number of other articles, from representatives of the government party, who have been concerned about just the freedom of trust – for example. the representative Knutson Barstad referred to the treatment of the Work Environment Act earlier, where they specifically owed the Progress Party to follow a different principle. No, in that debate – for which I listened – representatives from the Progress Party just argued with the freedom of faith and that there are some minorities who are looking at positions just around homophilis, around women, etc., in another way, and therefore there should be exceptions on a religious basis. I mean, when a person talks about freedom of trust in this case, it's important that he also expresses himself in other areas. So it's so that it's not all a like, but it's actually a part that's enshrined in human rights just to protect man's right to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1542	There are three things I want to include in this article. One is of a slightly general nature. It is quite typical of the Norwegian Progress Party's behaviour in political debates to spend a lot of time characterising the debate and saying that we, as opposed to what they think, are just beating around us with flakes. What is to note about it – and now I have listened carefully to the representatives of the Progress Party – is that they do not defend their own proposal, they do not debate with others. Why don't they answer the heavy challenges that lie in the debate, instead of going up here and using the voice very loud and talking about rafts from our side? The amundsen has the chance to get a short line. He should use it to answer exactly that, so that the Storting hears what the Progress Party thinks about the challenges that lie in the debate of us who disagree with it. Secondly, I shall not, Mr President, use extra-parliamentary terms and be subjected to clubbing, but I refer to those expressions! There will be limits when representatives of the Progress Party, with their history in the inclusion and equality debate in Norwegian political life over the last 20 years, talk about us who are opposed to this, exhibiting double standards. Who really is doing that? Of course, it is the Progress Party, while they are unable to defend, in fact, the content and consistency of their own proposals. And then they talk about us being double Moralists! This is grossly indebted to Parliament. The last thing – and it may be surprising to hear it, but I say it: Of course, the representatives of the Progress Party are right in what is said that women are at home, that they are subjected to repression, that they have great problems to come up with. That's true. And be honoured to them that they are now beginning to present the kind of discriminatory argument, that's great! But what is the truth is that if it is to be combated, it must be combated by gender equality and the development of equality in Norwegian society. This is what is used to deal with such a discriminatory situation — not through this type of prohibition, which even raises the burden on those who are oppressed. That challenge has been lying there, the Minister of Justice has challenged it, we notice that it is not going to be black.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1556	It's not every day that I start by expressing agreement with the representative Martin Kolberg, but in this case I do, and especially with regard to the first point, namely the attempt to characterize the majority's position on this matter. I am strongly responding to attempts to characterize the majority's attitude as flakes. I believe that the majority stands up for liberal values in an open society, and there is no floss. It's a central value. An important principle in a liberal and open society is that policies are also defined, and that is an area that is not to be regulated, because it is exactly what kind of clothing you wear. I can ask a simple question that later speakers from the Progress Party can answer, and that is: If you see a woman with a lucky garment that runs the trick, is it a sign of repression, or is it a sign of integration? I would experience it as a sign of integration. It is quite clear that all forms of both oppression and extremism are to be combated in our society, but it is to be combated through an open debate and not by attacking the symptoms or the victim, as is actually done by an attempt to ban it. Among other things, Siv Jensen said: that these are women who experience penalties at home. Yes, that is certainly true, but will there be fewer penalties if Norwegian society is to adopt a ban on lucky garments? Per-Willy Amundsen said that the majority lacks arguments, but I have experienced in all other debates on new bans that it is those who are going to introduce the ban, who must be able to argue why a ban will solve the problem that is being solved. There is no answer to what problems, what repression, what a ban is going to combat. There are no good arguments for that. On the contrary, this is an area that needs to be handled with the greatest seriousness: how can we get more immigrant women to participate in Norwegian society? It's about kindergartens, it's about participation requirements, and it's about participation opportunities. It is the type of instrument we need to discuss to help combat female oppression and how we can get more immigrant women to participate in Norwegian society – not through new laws and bans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1570	I found this debate to be eloquent because he's at a theoretical level, and I also thought that many people have a very great naivety, perhaps a limitless naivety, in relation to the issues we're facing here. I also want to remember and repeat my offer of niqaben. If you want, you can try him out in the hiking hall. Everyone I know who tried him has a completely different vision when it comes to this. So this is the reality of a lot of women. When a user argues that there are few people in this case, what kind of argument is that? This is because we want there to be no more. When a user argues that there are a few people involved, and that this is not a big problem, should a wait until this becomes a big problem? The point is that you have to tell me before this becomes a big and serious problem. We have to put our feet down and tell them that for those who want to wear a complete garment, Norway is not the right country to travel to. It is a signal that I had hoped the Storting could clearly tell you about, but it does not seem to be happening today at least. There's talk of freedom, that women have to choose, and that one should not push them, etc. I'm completely overconfident that there's no one walking around with whole-covering headgear on a voluntary basis. What's also the point, is that if it's going to be free to go up and down on Karl Johan with a full-fledged dress and cover his head, we also lose others a freedom and the right to identify those we meet on the street. Many people may find it uncomfortable to meet people who have complete headgear. We must also show respect for that. I thought several times when I was in the Middle East, it might be awkward to meet people in large assemblies who went with whole-clothing clothes. Of course it was because one is not used to it, and because one really doesn't know who is hiding behind these whole-minded plagues, like niqab and the jar. Jan Tore Sanner was in the room – and the Progress Party was supposed to answer that – what it meant if there was a woman with a full-fledged garment who was driving the trick. Then I just want to say to the representative Jan Tore Sanner: it indicates a development that the Progress Party does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1585	This is a debate in which the liberal position that people should be allowed to choose for themselves how to dress, even if it is a consequence of a family oppression, or it is a consequence of – in my opinion – a startled view of how women should dress, standing up to a kind of real equality position, which is about us indignant that people are forced to, or forced to, or feel compelled to, or feel like a natural thing to go without a jar or a niqab. But unlike the representative Gjermund Hagesetter, who has to go to the Middle East to see the burka and the niqab, I experience it in my neighborhood in Greenland – I live on the Tøen. I'd say it upsets me. I think it's just as uncomfortable every time I see it, even though it's not that often, because there are few instances of niqab and burka. Burka I think I've seen once, but niqab occurs to some degree. It upsets me, but it's not like we're going to ban it, even if it upsets us. It also upsets me when the Progress Party believes that I and everyone else who sit here in the Chamber do not believe that this is negative and a bad garment and a bad expression, and that we do not want to counter it because we do not end up with the ban on the Advance Party. The Progress Party has not properly argued for these proposals. I have not heard the Progress Party argue how it will strengthen women's position that they lose public benefits or public services. I haven't heard a single argument from either Gjermund Hagesetter or Per-Willy Amundsen for why this will strengthen women's situation. With regard to the need for identification, I have not heard one single argument that today's identification rules are too poor or provide insufficient opportunities for public authorities, for the Storting Watch Office, for the police or for anyone else to be able to require the identification of people going on the street. I would also just like to draw attention to the fact that it is actually allowed today for people to wear Finnish hats in the street. It is allowed for people to wear things that cover up completely. If I were to choose to wear such a necktie up to my nose, it is therefore permissible today after the law. So I'm upset that this has a certain spread, and will do what I can to combat it. I just want to take another small point, which they haven't answered. This is about religion, and about men using religion to oppress women. But we see a lot of examples of this in Norwegian society today. You have Christian movements that don't give women the right to vote. But has the Progress Party ever proposed not to provide financial support to or prohibit these organisations for that reason? No, never! This is a double morality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1598	I don't know where to start, and where to stop, or whether to laugh or cry. But the debate seems to me to be fairly 'not to the point', to put it this way. I'll take care of two relationships. One is that the Department of Justice has said that a ban is likely to be contrary to Article 9 of the European Convention on Freedom of Religion. It says: «Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, freedom of conscience, freedom of religion [[...]] There's two sections about it. But then the question comes: Who is going to decide that this is a religious garment? And if it is a religious garment, it should be a religious garment for all those who believe in Islam and who are Muslims. But it is true that Muslims most reject this garment. Tunisia and Turkey are countering this because it represents Islamism and fundamentalism. They're doing everything they can to counter this. That's exactly in the environments we want to fight in Norway, across Europe and throughout the world, the oppression of women thrives through burkas and niqabs. Why don't we do something about it then, but sit here and abuse our own freedoms? We are so tolerant that we tolerate intolerance when women are oppressed. We should all stand up as one and say unanimously that we should not have niqab and burka in the Norwegian community. So point 2 – this with public benefits: why can't the Progress Party justify this with public benefits and stack these women being suppressed? Certainly, as far as I was aware, the Workers' Party was based on duties and rights. You have some duties before you have any rights, and those duties include: identifying yourself in the public space. It's one of the basic duties that we have in Norwegian society. You can't dress in a tent, be covered behind a lucky veil, forced on by a man, and say that you should still have the same number of rights in Norwegian society. No! No! One of the duties of Norwegian society is to be able to be identified and to identify itself. Then the women must take that settlement with their men. It can be difficult and heavy – we understand that. We're going to help women on the way, but at least it's supposed to be so that women can argue with their husbands: if I go outside with this garment, I get fined and lose social benefits. That's right! And who is finally going to pay for it? It is the family that wants to suffer, and then finally – over time – this garment will disappear. It's obviously going to work! In the next generation we will then have several liberated women, and niqab and burka will disappear from Norwegian society forever and ever. That must be our goal. You must not excuse the men who oppress their women.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1612	The last loud post I had actually intended to ignore in silence, but to the last sentence that one excuses men who oppress their women: I think Tybrung-Gjedde should answer to who it is he is here aiming for. There is no one in this room who has tried to excuse men who oppress their women. What we're discussing is whether prohibition is the way to go. I have very often experienced the Progress Party as an ally in the public debate on bans is the way to go when you are fighting something you are not necessarily very excited about. But here the Progress Party clearly believes that the ban is the way to go. I fundamentally disagree with that. When I took the floor, it was mainly because of the posts of the representative, Mr. Hageseter, who continues to argue with us and them, and above all that we are the ones who don't like, and we are the ones who feel uneasy – not that any prohibition is something that will work as a liberating woman, or solve some of the problems that you have intended to solve. The representative, Mr Hagesetter, said, inter alia: that if you intend to wear lucky clothes, Norway is not the country to travel to. It is not the case that women who wear lucky clothes have only chosen to travel to Norway. They may have been granted asylum because of their right to asylum or residence in Norway, the right to protection. It's not like you've just chosen to travel. Then there's a real reason to be present here. I agree with Mr Tybring-Gjedde that we are going to fight extreme Islam and other forms of extremism, but we are not doing so through a ban on lucky garments. There are quite other instruments that are needed to combat this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1633	It is a great level of noise from this pulpit when discussing women and clothing. On 17 May last year, Oslo was very hot. Then it struck me that now Trine had become an old lady, because I reacted to all the very young girls who were wearing such clothes as I thought you weren't wearing it on May 17th, you're wearing it when you're going to the nightclub. Then I thought that now you're an old lady, Trine. When you're a teacher, you have a great opportunity to decide what to wear in the classroom. I mean that as a teacher you have great authority to say: Take off your hat, and take off your caps. They also have great authority to say that I must be allowed to see the face of everyone I teach. I mean, it's a teacher's full right. I think that's an authority a teacher should of course have in a classroom. As an employee of a social security office, where someone does not know who is sitting in front of you, you have a sea full right to know who is sitting in front of you. I have to say, I think putting hijab on little girls is disgusting. I think it's a sexualization of children, which I don't like. Had I had a friend who had done that, I would have said that I didn't like it. But there's a lot of other clothes you find in a kids' store that I also think is disgusting. But there is a big difference between what I personally think you should not have on children, and what I want the law to adopt. There is a big difference between what I think is appropriate to wear on May 17th, and what I think the law will adopt. What provokes me here, too, is that it's just women's suits you always discuss. And so it's like this: have you ever talked to any of these ladies? I have, and I have discovered that what is behind, sometimes is much less oppression than you expect. These women can be much less oppressed than very many women who I have met in other situations and who have not been covered, but who have lived in couples who have been extremely oppressive. There's no rule for this. What's clear to me is that today's Progress Party is promoting proposals that will never allow them to call themselves liberal again. It also shows that they have a fundamental distrust of the belief in dialogue in society, the belief that the teacher can actually sit down with a mother and father and say that I don't think this is a good thing. I think it seems more than that roaring progress party politicians are standing here crying out loud about women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1646	If that was the voice of tolerance, equality and women's struggle I heard when the representative Tybring-Gjedde had the word, I must really say that then I am very little worried about a lady in a jar. Then I'm all the more worried about him. In just over a month, an event will be closed, including: on Greenland. There's been a lot of discussion about sneezing and various things. Then actually, the Moving Day parade is going through Greenland. I was wondering for a while if I should go to the burka to be dressed enough, because every year some progress party politician, either on the Stortinget or outside, would like to suggest that you put down this parade because you are so light and sexual and dress in a very special way. What's interesting about it is that you don't exactly have the historical experience of what it's all about, because the New York police demanded that you dress in a certain gender-specific way, otherwise you were caged in. I think we are at the heart of what one proposal is about. It's about someone responding to, and some people find it uncomfortable to see — not necessarily to take over — the abuses that happen to the few women it's about. If it's the case that a law is to be passed because some of us think it's uncomfortable and uncomfortable and they feel insecure by looking at someone who looks like that, then we create parallel societies. At the gym I go to, I'm in an activity class. There's a woman who doesn't wear a jar, but she's fully dressed – you just look at the face. She walks around in a center with lots of half-naked men. In the U.S., you've come a lot further. Security inspectors are wearing hijab. You don't discuss it there. Then I ask myself the question: shall we make a ban based on what we feel is right, or on what we believe that someone out in Norwegian society seems to be bad? Then it's like the representative Kolberg and others have asked questions about what public services really are. So far, we're left with the fact that it's about airport control and getting passports. The representative Amundsen said he was not a lawyer. I really have to say that when you put forward proposals that you have to take to a serious debate in Stortinget, it might have been a good idea to define what the content of the proposal is actually about, because until now – in the course of an almost two-hour debate – you haven't been able to define: What are public services – what is included and what is not included in that concept? Very well-known is not an aerodrome control – which may be aimed at – a public service. I think it reminds me of the time when they said there was a requirement for the straw kitchen in Norwegian prisons. It was not a requirement, but it was produced in the form of proposals. Okay, maybe someone reads the EMK or the Constitution, but sometimes it might be nice to define their suggestions a little bit better before you promote them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1661	The President would point out that the attack on the representative Tybring-Gjedde was probably something on the other hand – Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1664	I want to reiterate this about religious freedom. I just want to point out that the Progress Party, on the one hand, strongly argues for religious freedom, while in this context they say, who is to be allowed to decide what Muslims should think? Should it be the individual Muslim, or should it be like the one Muslim line? It's just going down and looking at the founding fathers down here -- it's unfortunately only fathers and no women, and I think all were Christians, I think it must be possible to say that. Some of the Christian peoples thought that there should be a ban on images, it should not be allowed to be pictured – just to show that within Christianity and Islam there are an incredible number of representations of what one perceives to be one's religion. The religious line is also pluralistic in Norway. We have criticized that the Catholic Church does not allow female priests, and we have criticized that the Salvation Army does not want to hire homosexuals. We have criticised the absence of voting rights and requirements for clothing in some Christian environments, women and men are kept separate in connection with religious celebrations, including in Islamic religious communities. When you have all these different religious beliefs, which I don't think are exactly signs of good equality, there's something lying there. And the Progress Party always says, "Yes, but this must be allowed. This is freedom of faith, this is something that individual religion should be allowed to decide for itself. There we have said that everyone should comply with the Equality Act, because SV has as a starting point that everyone should comply with the Equality Act, otherwise they should lose their financial support. But when it comes to the issue of freedom of faith, to be allowed to decide, I actually think it's okay to go undressed jars, although I think it's a completely stunned view of women that underlies it. I will fight against the woman's vision that underlies the burka. I will fight against the view of women which underlies all forms of discrimination against women and homosexuals in all religious communities. So at least we're consistent. And we say that this is something that we're going to fight against, but we're going to use the means of democracy and not the ban on fighting these things. So I have a question, because there's no doubt that there's a question of symbolism about these things. It is clear that in this debate the Progress Party believes that it is important here to set an example, here it is important in relation to the symbolic effect. But when it came to prostitution, the Progress Party did not believe that it was important to ban the purchase of sex, even if 80-90 pst. of those who live by prostitution have been sexually assaulted. The progress party therefore believes that it was wrong to prohibit the purchase of sex. There they believe that the ban was wrong, now they believe it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1671	The representative Martin Kolberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1674	After hearing this now, I would like to say that there are two possibilities in the argument of the Advance Party. First of all, I would say that when I heard Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who until now, during this great period, I have seen as the foremost representative of liberalism in the Grand Duchy, I think he must have had it very politically arduous when he kept the post he was now making. That's one possibility. The second possibility is that this is an expression of the political practice of the Progress Party – they want to present themselves liberalistically, while they are not. They use it when it's right, but not when it's not right. If there's anything this debate has actually revealed, it is. Whether I should say that, and that's polemically said, but it belongs here: I notice the clear cultural difference between the Right and the Advance Party in this matter. Right will cooperate with the Advance Party of Government. I say as my grandmother: wear it off!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1681	It's nothing new that every time the Progress Party is challenged on its proposals, they start to undermine – what to say – them. We're asking for two things. First, we ask: is it now that the state is going to decide that you should go dressed like that to get certain rights, and if you don't, are you going to lose these rights? Is this line the Progress Party is now going to form the basis of its policy? That's the one. At once I asked, if there is such a burk-carried woman who is hit by a bus, not going to get ambulance assistance, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen exempts this very thing. No, she'll get it. All right, who's not going to get public services? Is it the woman who needs assistance to a lawyer that she's not going to get? Is it the woman who's being assaulted, who's not going to get police help? I hope that the representatives of the Progress Party now defend this and tell us what it means. The second is that they say that we have no solutions. It is clear that the majority have solutions. Just look at the little part that we were in – the nursery. All the little girls who go to kindergarten are trained to become independent individuals when they one day grow up. And all the mothers are given the opportunity to use this freed time to take work and become financially independent. This is the solution. Look at the girls who've now taken colleges. When they stand out as lawyers and businesswomen, they're the best role models for girls who come after them. It'll seem woman-releasing. The representative Hagesetter answered a question from Jan Tore Sanner that when he sees a woman who is burcached and takes the trick, there's a development he doesn't like. What part of the evolution is what he doesn't like? Is that the woman taking the bitch? Is it that she delivers her boy to the kindergarten, or is it that she takes the trick to Rosenhoff to take language training? Or is it that she's on her way to some university? What development does the Hagesets representative not like? Now we want to get answers to these questions, and the one question that remains is, how do they think the ban on burka promotes integration and frees women from oppression?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1693	The representative of Amundsen has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1696	To the last: I think we have repeated several times: the ban on burka and niqab will help because these plagues then disappear from the public room, and you will send clear signals. The same applies, for example, to: government benefits. Of course, life and health should go ahead, but if you seek social assistance from the municipality, you shouldn't expect to get it if you carry a burka or niqab. But then, what this is all about is completely fundamental things. It's the very fundamental values that characterize our society. It's about freedom, it's about democracy, it's about equality, it's about equality, it's about equality. And sometimes it is that some of these values conflict with each other, as religious freedom, as it is claimed here, versus the individual freedom of all women in Norwegian society. When you meet those kinds of problems, you have to think clearly. That's what the Progress Party is doing here. We take sides with the weak women over the mule and those who stand for dark thoughts... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1701	The next speaker is Christian Tybring-Gjedde. The representative Tybring-Gjedde has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1704	I'm actually not going to take 3 minutes. I just thought I'd say that the ban on niqab and burka is going to come all over Europe. It is also going to come to Norway — not today, not with this bulk of population, but some of these parties are going to change their minds. I am absolutely convinced that the Workers' Party, although they are now, as if they are arguing violently against a ban, will be in favour of a ban on the day when the EU will adopt a ban on niqab and burka in the public space. I can guarantee that it's going to happen. We see developments in Europe. We see the trend in other countries before it comes to Norway. We see the effect of repressive symbols like niqab and burka. You're going to adopt a ban, and the criticism is not going to be that they're not too liberalistic or that kind of claim. It's going to happen to preserve the freedoms we stand for. It's also going to happen because we want to preserve a secular rule of law, a democracy. We want to preserve equivalency, equality, freedom of expression, freedom of religion – the very values upon which all of our society is based, namely tolerance. That is why a ban is coming. And it's not a violation of liberalism, as Kolberg says. Liberalism is quite clear. If Kolberg hasn't studied liberalism, it may not be surprising, but my freedom ends there. It's liberalism. We discover that we allow discrimination against women in Norway today. We're saying that there's some kind of back-men -- and it's their husbands who are the back-men here. We know who it is, but the Great Mountains and others say we're going to do something about this, but we don't know exactly what. Then do something about it, then – because it is becoming more and more every day – in the name of equality! Criticisms like the Advance Party not to be for equality, but those who think they're for equality and think they can rise above others, get to do something about this, then. Do something about it, because it happens every day, and it's more and more!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1711	Gærmund Hageseter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1714	I record that there are some people who instead of taking the main lines in this case, go into detail about what we mean. What we mean by this case is simply that one should give a clear indication that there are some standards, some standards that we have in Norway, which those who come to Norway must respect. The representative Akhtar Chaudhry was interested in what I meant that if I saw a woman with a jar on it, I would react. What the representative Jan Tore Sanner asked questions about was whether we had a female jersey with a jar or niqab – a whole-covered garment. I say there's a development that the Progress Party didn't like. I simply mean that everyone who goes on the trick should have the right to identify who is running the trick.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1721	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1724	I needed a brief comment after listening to two perhaps a little less sympathetic posts by the representative Tybring-Gjedde. There are two things I want to comment on. The first is that I believe the representative of Tybring-Gjedde is right that there are many parties that are going to change their positions, and that perhaps even more countries in Europe are going to impose a ban on cans or whole-covered garments. And that worries me. The other thing I thought it was important to get hold of, it's that Tybrung-Gjedde in his previous post began to look at what's right to mean by religion, and to claim what's right within Islam. So one might say that it's quite fine that Tybring-Gjedde's representative thought that this is Islam, but I react strongly when he goes against another's right to interpret the Koran or Muslim rules in another way, because then a person just broke with the freedom of trust. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that the important thing in this matter is to show that in order to avoid a prohibition, or a verification of faith, in the future, it must be stressed that it is not the law-enforcement assembly to define what is right and wrong within a religion, it must be allowed for the individual to think something about himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1733	The President must be allowed to point out that it is possible to characterise other people's posts without calling them 'less sympathetic', which is probably not very parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1736	In the movement in which I have attended my political school, we learned quite early that if you had a bad case, it was just talking as loud as possible. I have to say that this strategy has been agreed upon when I have listened to representatives of the Progress Party today. There are two points in this debate that should remain as very important conclusions, and I am pleased about that. There is a broad consensus in the Storting, except for the Advancement Party, that this is actually such a big challenge, not only in terms of clothing, but in terms of coercion, oppression, violence, assault on women – and I would also say against children – that we do not solve it by that kind of symbolism policy. It is so important that we are totally dependent on putting the woman and the victim in the centre, and not – to put it figuratively – in prison. And when the representative Tybring-Gjedde challenges me and the government that we have to do something about it, it is to me a huge paradox that as a very broad majority in the Stortinget – yes, the same majority, in fact, with the exception of the Advance Party – it has actually granted considerable money for this year, whether it is language courses, introduction courses, general integration work, in recent months, among others. in the press, has received an absolute stamp of approval. It helps many younger women into Norwegian society, and we look at all the overmeasures and to great joy that many of the women score very high, whether in school or in work. These are the measures that the Progress Party every time we adopt the budget, almost invites us to delete. So here it's really not about the majority having to do anything, but actually the opposite: the progress party has to stop doing something. To me, it is still a mystery that the one who is subjected to coercion and assault is the one who is to bear the penalty. This is the proposal for the Progress Party. The second aspect of this is, of course, the need to exclude public services. It brings me to what's kind of main bar 2, and that should be left after this debate: We got no answer – we didn't get a proper answer when it comes to excluding these women from public services. Tybring-Gjedde knows who they're being persecuted by – he knew who it was. We have not received an answer to this. With respect to reporting, I believe that when you make proposals in the Stortinget, you also have to justify it – better than it has been done today. This has been an important manifestation that work to do something about the suppression of women continues with undegraded strength. And they're not actually doing the derailment that the Progress Party invited the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1753	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1769	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1778	First, I would like to praise the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee to address the important issue of drug problems in our prisons. Of course, the Committee takes a serious view of the fact that drugs are present in prisons. The Committee believes that drug trafficking, trafficking and abuse in prisons must of course be combated. It is important for individuals who want to do something about their drug problem, it is important to avoid former drug users falling for the temptation to start again, it is important to avoid recruiting new drug users, and it is important for rehabilitation into a life without crime. We know that among the convicted people, over 60 pst. a serious drug problem when they go to prison. We also know that the troubles of these people often affect that they commit new crimes. So the problem for many of these is the problem itself. In my view, debating drug problems in prisons in isolation is divided and divided. This has to be seen in the context of the general drug policy in our country, because the really interesting thing is how, as a society, we can manage to prevent people from rushing — how to motivate, treat and rehabilitate those who get a drug problem. In my view, the best way to avoid drug problems in prison is to combat drug problems in society in general. As the rapporteur on the subject, it is important for me to stress that the fight against drug problems in prisons is a major and comprehensive issue, as the Committee's comments also show. Crime alone cannot solve the problems of prisoners. However, criminal services are implementing many measures in prisons to combat drug use, including: by means of control measures and care for the elderly. On this occasion, the Committee refers to the criminal justice strategy, which is intended to help improve rehabilitation and reduce drugrelated crime. At the same time, criminal services carry out both systematic and sporadic checks, as well as checks in case of suspected drug smuggling and storage. It is not possible to get under the chair that we have a drug problem in Norwegian prisons. It worries us. The problems vary from prison to prison. Some prisons have focused heavily on the challenges and have thus systematised both the controls and the work of the prisoners. This has produced results. The Committee will therefore draw attention to the efforts made by the South-west Region in this area in the field of crime prevention. The systematic work of the region has resulted in more motivation for rehabilitating prisoners, and the behaviour of prisoners has improved. This shows that effort is beneficial. The government has increased its efforts against addicts during reconciliation. In 11 prisons, there is a drug-restraint unit established. The commitment to § 12 zoning in treatment and care institutions is also a good measure. Well-functioning drug dogs patrols are another measure. But we're not on target. St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, effective punishment, also referred to as the ‘criminal care report’, shows the nature of the overall criminal justice regime’s aim to combat crime — and thus also the drug problems in Norwegian prisons. The government’s return guarantee is therefore an additional measure to address these challenges. The return guarantee is now in the process of being phased in and is expected to deliver results in the first few years. Finally, I would like to refer to the original proposals in the draft representative and the proposals made during the committee reading. Most of these proposals for action are already part of the day-to-day routines and measures of criminal law. Some of the measures are considered to be extended and new measures are assessed, which makes good sense. The Committee does not reject the proposals and requests that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1801	A representative proposal on the fight against drugs in prisons should not have been necessary. Because if there was one place you could count on to be completely drug free, it had to be in prison. Authorities and politicians have been aware of this for a number of years, but what is being said and promised is far from what is being done. At least I would say that there is a thought that overdose deaths actually occur among prisoners in Norwegian prisons. How's it going? How is that possible? Of course, different random checks and improved training of drug-prevention officers are being carried out in order to prevent and limit illegal abuse. But is that enough? It can't seem like that – and no, we mean. This is why we want much more concrete measures aimed at controlling illicit drug use. From our point of view, there is no doubt that new technology should be used to a much greater extent. There are today both so-called beepers and machines that can see holes in the body, so-called cake man machines – all of these that Avinor now wants to test out at some airports. Because it is such that if I, as an air passenger, take a trip to Tromsø, I have to check through both detectors and manual checks to check what I am bringing on board. But if I had visited a prisoner in prison, it is suddenly the intervention in my private sphere to be controlled. Is it not natural that I should then accept control when visiting a prison? Where's the logic? It is also a reflection that the anti-criminal strategy imposes a number of demands on employees to have knowledge of drugs and control, while not a single word is said about the expectations, penalties and demands they place on their employees. Abuse of drugs in prisons undermines the ability of criminal services to rehabilitate, and there is no doubt either. Today, we spend a lot of resources on prisoners in order to succeed in getting these away from a criminal everyday life, but then it's very small if you work yourself up, for example. a drug-related debt while in prison, which, in this way, spreads bones throughout the ability to succeed. This is particularly true of young offenders with a drug problem, who are easily caught up in an organised criminal everyday life after an atoning end. The Minister of Justice Storberget’s letter to the Committee on the Challenges does not provide a credible description of solutions to curb or stop drug trafficking in prisons. If a zero vision of drugs is to be complied with in prison, it is clearly far more stringent control measures, mainly by people and goods entering prison, which must be implemented. It is therefore surprising that the government parties in the committee do not choose to support the specific proposals promoted in the case, not least in view of the comments made by the representative Jan Bøhler to the VG on Sunday, where he states: ‘Six out of ten prisoners have substance problems. We need to do what we can to limit the flow of substance into prison.’ [[...]] Furthermore, Bohemia requires more rapid action to limit the flow of drugs into prison. So then I ask, how is it possible not to vote in favour of these proposals, whether it was just one or two of them, when they are now ready for voting today, and we know that the representative and also the red-green actually share the concern of the Progress Party for the problem? Why does it have to go month after month before you can deal with the problem to a much greater extent? I'm just asking, because I think in this case there's so much double communication, and it's spoken with two tongues, from both Storberget and Bøhler, that it's to get – yes, I'm not allowed to say gibberish, but maybe – double frustration of. What has now been revealed by relations around Oslo prison should also make all the bells ring. It is amazing that these irregularities have gone on over time, without any changes being made by the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice. This must have been known. I clearly see a certain parallel to case no. 5, as we have discussed earlier today, Skien Prison. You know about the problem, but maybe try to spray it down and ignore it, and hope it goes over. Isn't it time to show the power of action and get the job done? On behalf of the Advance Party and on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party, I refer to the proposals that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1828	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The President is pleased that she changed her way of expressing herself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1831	The right is very pleased that an overall judicial committee is behind and signals that we want to address the problem of drug abuse in prison and access to drugs under settlement seriously. This is a serious problem. It's a problem for the system, it's a problem for society, and it's a problem for the prisoners, because this both inhibits and it prevents rehabilitation after reconciliation, and it inhibits and prevents the return of society after the sentence has been given. Lasting action is needed here, and the Right will underline the robust efforts of criminal services, including in cooperation with other states, to limit this problem. This is not something that has arisen as this case is now on the Stortings table; it has been there for a long time, and a lot of valuable work has been done. But we can't say we're satisfied with that reason. Here we have to constantly consider whether we're going to do more, and whether we've done enough. We need to assess whether we are doing the right things, and not least we need to be critical of whether we are doing the necessary and proper priorities to bring this problem to life. To the right, it is an important part of our justice policy that we have a good criminal record – and we have that in Norway. For us, it is important that the prisoners become more able to govern their own lives after the atonement, that they are able to make their own choices for their own benefit and not least for the benefit of society around them. For us, education policy is therefore also an important part of criminal care, because it helps to ensure that individual prisoners have a better and safer platform for going out to society after reconciliation and standing on their own feet and making their own positive choices. We highlight the importance of what is a supporting element in today's criminal care, by the fact that there is a progress in restitution, which means that those who follow the rules under restitution get easier settlements as they approach release. This in itself is a contribution to prevention, among other things. drug problems. We are very clear from the Right that if you break the terms of this positive progression, there will of course also have negative consequences for the prisoner under tighter settlement conditions. Choices and consistency belong closely to us. For the Right, it is important that we have a continuous political searchlight and press on this issue, because this helps to undermine much of the valuable efforts being made in criminal matters, and it helps to create human creatures that are problematic both for those involved, and not least for society around. On behalf of the Right, I hope we can get broad support for what is contained in the proposals No. 1-3 in the Committee’s position, which is precisely focusing on a strategy for better education and training in the field of housing, which is that we make it clear from a political point of view that abuse of the confidence of individual prisoners has a clear impact, and that, on the part of Stortinget, we make it clear that, through our State budget, we provide conditions for criminal services to better address this problem. Finally, I have a question for the Council of State that I hope he can clarify in his article. It is on proposal No. 10, which is distributed on the platoons today, from the Progress Party on Oslo Prison. What measures does the Ministry of Justice intend to take in the extension of that proposal? I'm meeting that answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1854	First, I just want to take advantage of the opportunity to give praise to the proposers for a good and important proposal and to focus on an important area. One knows that a lot of the problem of crime is often related to drug use and to the problem that one knows when a person is in prison and has problems afterwards. When one knows, as the proposers point out, that in 2007 645 seizures have been made in prison, and that developments do not go down quite simply, it concerns me. I think it is unlikely that the Committee in the configuration makes such a clear statement that this is an important area, that it is an area to be covered. At the same time, for its part, the Christian People's Party should wish that one could support under the proposal No. 1-3, which is at the back of the option. One knows that a lot of crime is related to drug problems in the run-up to it. One knows that especially many young people who go to prison may have a problem when they get in, but there are also some who get a problem when they're in prison and create a debt that means that when they get out of prison, they're already connected to a network that makes it hard for them to get out of crime, and that, instead, they might rather end up as repeaters. That's why it's an extra important area to tackle. I must agree with the representative Michaelsen's statement that in prison it should be possible for all places to avoid using drugs. For its part, the Christian People's Party wants to be with and support the proposal No. 1 to 3. We would also like to support proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1865	The representative, Mr Ropstad, then explained what proposals he and the Christian People's Party would support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1868	It's very sad when people get caught up in this – let's say – hell that drugs are. Your own life is going to hurt. The whole family – the children, the parents, the siblings – and the community, everything and everyone gets hurt. We need to do everything we can to combat drugs, both their introduction, their sale and not least their use. The government and SV have a zero vision here, and that's what is guiding us in our work. Much has been done, and the rapporteur told about the good actions that have been carried out, but it is clear that much more action needs to be assessed and implemented both outside and within prison. I agree with the representative of Ropstad that the prison should be the place where drugs did not occur. But we know that it does. In a non-profit world, it hadn't happened, but as someone said the other day, we don't live in a non-profit world. These are some of the proposals that the Progress Party has made. Some of them have already been implemented and in place and can be used and reinforced. But it's a proposal that I've reacted to a little bit, and it goes like this: ‘The government is asked to impose mandatory controls on all items, visitors and prisoners entering and leaving prison by assessing, inter alia, the use of new technological instruments.’ I've spent some time trying to understand it. What does that mean? This means, first of all, that it is claimed, without evidence, that it is the relatives who are smuggling drugs. It's a claim that needs to be documented. We know that there are completely different environments that smuggle it in. That's the one. The second: throughout this debate, rehabilitation is the most important thing — making the prisoner able to come back to society as a better person than when he entered. Then the contact with the family is crucial. It's at least one of the crucial pieces. Implementing what is proposed in this proposal by the Progress Party, compulsory control of all visitors, means that the children, the family, the wife, father and mother, without any suspicion, are to be visited. It means an enormous burden on the parents and the children. I've spoken to the Fangers Family Association. They say, ‘Such a visit will also ensure that far fewer children are taken on visits, either to avoid visits, to prevent children from seeing caregivers being visited, or to avoid children remaining alone in neighbouring rooms while the caregivers are being visited.’ Their conclusion is: ‘The consequence of this is poorer contact between the imprisoned parents and the children.’ No matter how good intentions we politicians have – when we make proposals, we must also be able to see the consequences of them. I feel that, in the context of this proposal, in line with a few proposals in the previous case, the consequences of their own proposals are not seen. On the basis of this, we won't be able to agree to this. I hope that the Progress Party reflects on the consequences of its own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1894	I also welcome the proposals, in the sense that they are going to debate on this. Let it not be left as an impression after this debate that we do not want to continue the efforts now being made to combat drug abuse in Norwegian prisons. I will be so clear to say that both the previous government and the current government helped to increase our focus on this and to build up the control measures. All parties have a certain share in this. However, it is very important, when we attack such a field, that we can have several thoughts in our head at once. In 2004, as many have pointed out, the study by Fafo shows that many prisons in Norway are struggling with significant drug problems. It may be one of our main challenges in preventing relapse. As you can see, Nordic relapse statistics are happy, with Norway coming out very well. I take it as a sign that changing governments and a community here in Stortingen have helped to expand alternative measures and alternative forms of reconciliation, which make people more free of their problems. Maybe that's one of the most important things we can do. As you can see, the eleven multi-disciplinary drug treatment units that are now open are very important measures to do something about what is the basic problem: drug use and drug use. Maybe it's more important than all the dog equipasses of the world, but it's also important. In addition, it is very important for us that we get to the progress in the compensation that the representative, Werp, was about to make. That's the key to creating motivation. At the same time, we know that it challenges us, because progress means that people have to zone at different security levels, and that they actually get to participate in society around them to a greater extent than before, with a greater risk and a greater chance of running. But it is perhaps one of the most important measures we can take to get people into work, education and drug treatment. In this way, we see that it can immediately become apparent that some of these interests can stand against each other, but I still believe that it is so important that we stick to it by being able to have progress. Motivating and facilitating, so that prisoners are drug-free during atonement, is clearly important. I also believe it is important that we provide a rapid and clear and differentiated response to drug abuse during the course of criminal proceedings, and that we can strengthen the overall organisation of different interventions and get more professionals to contract. We're totally dependent on that. Then I would also like to point out that the figures we have now received in respect of people who are sons in a treatment institution under Section 12 of the Penal Code have been good in the sense that more and more people are doing so, which helps to use the compensation even more actively to get to the right place in life. The measures taken in the context of the return guarantee, i.e.: that Nav enters prisons, and that the House Bank helps to settle, is also crucial in this work. I would also like to point out that the pure control activity in prisons is also high. I see from statistics that last year's seizures were large. I think we're going to be a little careful to understand that the abuse in prison has increased. This may be related to the fact that the frequency of checks has taken place. Moreover, it is gratifying that last year you had fewer positive urine samples than you had before, suggesting that this picture is not unique, in the sense that there is only one way to go, that more and more people are rushing. In addition, in criminal custody, we now have a total of 14 dog equipasses. I think we've informed you in the letter that it's 13, but it's 14. 12 are operational and two are under training. These are important control measures and, in my opinion, an effective and humane way of controlling them. We're not going to give in to this. As my reply says in the letter on proposal No. 6, we have asked this year in the Letter of Allocation to the Criminal Service to go in and analyse and look at the need for further action. This also applies to Oslo prison. So, in response to the representative, Mr Werp, we want a survey to be carried out there, as well as proposals for improvements and measures that can help improve the situation there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1913	In fact, this debate should be completely unnecessary, as several speakers have pointed out in the debate. It is a great wonder why we have drugs in prison at all. Prison is the most closed thing we have in our society. It is a place of considerable control — it is the use of drug dogs, etc. This is why the challenge of drugs in prison is so great. I didn't notice that the Council of State in its speech addressed the issue, how drugs enter prisons – because it is obvious that it does. Someone's taking drugs with them into prison, whoever it might be. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1920	I'll try to interpret a question out of this. We in the justice sector and the central government of criminal justice are fully aware that people bring drugs into prison. We even know it's being thrown over the walls. But I don't want to describe it as a wonder – and almost something divine – that we can't keep it completely clean. That is the challenge of a prison, that there should be some contact with the outside world, among other things. visits by children. We also know that there are permits. At the same time, we know – and the Progress Party has been supporting it – that we want to have progress in restitution. It invites prisoners to participate in more open settlements, even representations where they have the opportunity to participate in education, work and treatment. It creates a greater risk of even rushing. [[President clubs]] But in the long term, and overall, we think it gives less drug use. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1927	Now the president has to have equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1932	The president's been clubbing. The President will draw attention to the fact that speaking time is not a minimum time, but a maximum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1937	My question to the State Council goes to the Oslo prison and is to the extent a follow-up to the answer that has now been given. In his article, the Council of State signalled that he would like to know what to do with the challenges such as: The representative, Mr Bøhler, referred to in the VG this weekend. The government replied that one has been aware of the challenges for a long time. Isn't it a little special to get a statement now? If the Council of State has been aware of these challenges for a long time, he may already have thought of some measures, and he may be able to share his thoughts with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1944	That is why control measures have increased in recent years. It's not just in Oslo prison we have these challenges, it's also elsewhere. It's e.g. an increase in the number of dog equipasses, more simply patrolling around prison is needed to monitor and keep watch, and this is a technological development. There has also been no silence in Oslo prison regarding the issue of camera surveillance, etc. But at the same time, I think there is a need to take further action. An initiative has been taken towards the Central Administration of Crime Prevention in the 2010 letter of allocation, before this was updated in the press, where all regions have been asked to develop an analysis of the extent of abuse and the possibilities for actions relating to the local unit. I think it's a work that we'll never really finish and that we still have to develop, even in the light of the fact that there's still new technology that you can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1949	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1954	I have a great deal of respect and understanding for this proposal. 60 pst. in prisons, drug use problems at the time of hospitalisation. These are scary high numbers. Winning the fight against drug addiction is imperative for a better life after atonement. It will prevent new crime and make society safer. As mentioned earlier in the debate, during the year, the government has established detention centres in several prisons. I also show that this year new detention units are being established at Halden Prison and Hustad Prison. Rusmes are established in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and it will provide drug treatment and better rehabilitation for prisoners who were addicted to drug use in prison. Drug and drug use in Norwegian prisons are, of course, not acceptable in this context and there should be zero tolerance in relation to both the introduction, placing on the market and use of drugs in our prisons. Increased control measures have been put in place — with the use of drug dogs and close control of visitors as key instruments in the fight against drug entry into prison. The question is how far an actual can and should go without crossing human treatment limits. In the proposal No. 9 calls for the opening of a ‘full visit by visitors to prisoners taken for possession or use of drugs under restitution’. Full visitation means stripping, and that all the body's voids are examined. These are very drastic measures and, in my view, inhumane to relatives and family members who want to visit prisoners in Norwegian prisons. Is it so to understand that the Progress Party and the Right would also want such controls to be carried out by children and minors visiting their father, if any? My question is whether the proposers are really prepared to carry out such a gross violation of adults and children as a full visit will be. If the answer is yes, the proposal adds itself in my view to the range of little thought-out proposals. I am surprised that the Right has stood behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1967	There is a strong consensus in the Committee that drugs are a challenge and a major problem in Norwegian prisons, and there is also a strong consensus that we need to try to address this. As the representative Torve also said, we need to see the drug problem together. Firstly, we must prevent people from getting drug problems – there is no doubt about it – and then we must prevent them from continuing with this when they are in prison. I don't think we ever get rid of drug problems in Norwegian society or in the world community, and as the Council of State says now, we can't keep prisons completely clean for drugs, but we can do what we can to prevent drug abuse in prisons. It's important, as many people have been involved, that the prisoners get progress in their atonement and have an opportunity to get out to an almost normal life, and eventually a completely normal life after atonement. But it is also important – when we look at the progress in the reconciliation – that this must be individual-based. Those who are in prisons are not a uniform group, they are actually individuals who are sitting there and who need individual treatment. What I really went up to comment, was the representative Chaudhry's comments on the proposal for a visit, which was also the representative of Lillehovde. It is that when you are in prison, you are deprived of certain rights, but must nevertheless comply with the laws and regulations that are within the walls of the prison. When you break these laws and rules, it has to have a consequence. They also know that if I break a law or a rule, it will have consequences for me, and in this case it will have the consequence that my family, my friends who come and visit me, will be visited. That's the consequence of that. It also helps to ensure that prisoners may think about one or two times before they continue their drug abuse in prison. When they break the law, it has consequences for themselves, and also for the family who comes to visit. And, yes, when it comes to the question of Little Hövde, I'm willing to go so far as to say that once you've broken these rules, it's going to have the consequence that family members who come to visit should be visited. There is no doubt that family members are also used to smuggle drugs into prison. And we have to put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1978	I would like to stress, as the case-rapporteur and the Minister of Justice also did, that an overall committee, an overall increase and the government want better control of drug abuse in prisons. I refer you to the rapporteur's statements on many of the measures, and I would like to highlight in particular the statement by Mr Anders B. Werp. I agreed with all of his contributions, i.e. his emphasis on the need for sustained action – not something has been solved with a quick fix – and that we also need to constantly consider new measures. With regard to the first two proposals that have been put forward here today by the minority, that is, by the Party of Advancement and the Right, the ideas that the parties of government are also in favour of. There are issues that are mentioned in the Criminal Welfare Communication, mentioned in the Minister's newsletter, etc., so we want to work with the opposition on the two issues addressed in the proposals. I would therefore suggest that they be sent to the government, instead of that there will be some contradictions around the two tracks that have been pulled up there. With regard to the other proposals promoted by the Progress Party, which the case-rapporteur, Mr Tove-Lise Torve, commented on, many of them are partly like opening doors, because all these themes are being worked on. But many of the suggestions are imprecise. For example, this year the capacity of 12 drug dogs has been increased, and two are being trained, so that it becomes 14. And you consider the need for new ones. So the capacity there is increasing. With regard to the next proposal, there are separate glass-walled rooms etc. in all high-security prisons. When it comes to making proposals in the Storting, you have to be more precise — if it is elsewhere, in addition to these, where you want such visitors. The same applies, for example: the assessment of new technologies, which is the next proposal. The Minister corresponds to the Committee's assessment of the new technology, and is doing so, in the same way as that technology is also being assessed in relation to aerodromes. So here's more about where you relate to processes, work that's actually going on, not that the Committee is not otherwise concerned with the issues contained in the proposals of the Progress Party. I am pleased with the attention that several representatives have shown Oslo prison after I have addressed the problems, which the prison management there is very aware of and have presented. The immediate measures that can now be taken there are, for example: increased use of drug dogs, which are in the process of happening, increasing staff, increasing capacity, among others. the Minister has launched the training of a KRUS class in criminal matters. There will be increased staff presence and increased opportunities to carry out in-flight controls in prison, for example: on the way out to the airfields. So I believe that there will be some immediate measures, as the minister also said, and I also believe that we can get an assessment of whether this is a suitable place to have a prison in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e1993	First of all just a brief remark to the representative Lillehovde, who unfortunately got hurt to include the Right in proposal No. 9, full visit. It's not on the right, it's just the Progress Party that's behind it. Then to the representative Bøhler. Right-wing thanks for what we experience in support of proposals No. 1 and 2 by inviting the Stortinget in this way to decide that it will be sent to the Government. In our view, it is – as the representative also explained – an emphasis that this is a theme The Greatness is concerned about, and that we want to keep a click on and focus on. It's important. I have also spoken with the spokesperson of the Progress Party in this area, and we would like to support, on our side, the transmission proposal relating to the proposals No. 1 and 2. This is the case with proposal No. 10, which in any case we in the Right became familiar with today, regarding Oslo prison. On the right-hand side, we are, also as an opposition party, detained from the Stortings side to conduct detailed management. The fact that the Stortinge here is invited to believe something about Oslo prison as one of several important prisons in criminal matters can be seen as detailed management. Nevertheless, the Right will support proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party, because this is a topic and a matter that we've become familiar with is an acute challenge – and in that way we contribute to stress that this is a topic on which we as elected representatives are concerned. There is no mistrust of the job being done, but rather support for the job being done, by further strengthening the effort and political focus. That is why we are going to support the proposed proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2003	It is such that the penalties and benefits of the prisoners are individually assessed on the basis of the actions of an inmate, the course of progress, behaviour, etc. We know that leave depends on individual assessments and how the prisoner has behaved. We also know that release is an individual assessment, and that it depends on how an inmate reacts, and how the progress has been. Then it becomes a little strange for us that when an inmate is using drugs and being taken for it, with the consequences I have just mentioned, someone else who has not necessarily been part of this should be punished. The family is to be punished for having used drugs. It's not on your fingertips. I want to say, first of all, it's a matter of privacy. How should a father, a mother, a sister or a child take the burden of being physically inspected because someone inside has broken the law? That's one piece. The second piece is, as I quoted here, the Fangers Family Association, which believes that very many then will heave, and that especially children will not be taken to prisons to visit their parents. Then the children's rights will also come into the picture. Is it possible to punish children for their father doing something? Morten Ørsal Johansen said here just before me that yes, then he who is inside must know that it will have consequences for those who are out. We think it's wrong. In addition, we believe that it will prevent progression. SV has meant, and believes, that it might be a thought to move the entire Oslo prison out of town. Then we solve a good deal of problems that involve having a prison in the middle of the city – a prison that is built a long time ago, and which does not have the framework, not the zones it needs. It could also mean a good development for the city when we get this plot at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2012	Actually, I should have overlooked Mr Chaudhry's last speech, because it was so far beyond the scope of the proposal that it is possible to interpret the proposals of the rapporteurs and the intention of the proposal. There is nothing in this proposal that is any argument for punishing other than the prisoner. What Mr Chaudhry is calling for here is simpler and less security controls in Norwegian prisons than I think the majority want. So there's a question you have to ask, and that's, what are you going to do with those who take drugs into prison? It is clear that people visiting prisons bring drugs. There must be consequences for their ability to visit Norwegian prisons in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2019	Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2022	I have stopped being surprised at the way the Progress Party reacted. Once they are confronted with some proposal, they begin to undermine their own proposals. I quote: ‘The government is asked to impose mandatory controls on all items, visitors and prisoners entering and leaving prison.’ ‘All’, including children — what does that mean? That means that the children are punished for something they have not been accomplices in. When someone in there has violated some law, the child is deprived of his or her Conventional right to meet his or her father. You should see the consequences of your own proposals before you promote them. It's okay for us that you – excuse me, President, the Progress Party – are running from your proposals. It's all right, but we're going to confront the Progress Party with their proposal, their content, and we're going to demand answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2032	The President assumes that the Vice President knows that all speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2035	The Progress Party does not undermine its own proposals or positions. I must ask the representative Chaudhry to read the proposals; read them separately and look at them collectively. We want to introduce mandatory controls on items, visitors and prisoners entering and leaving Norwegian prisons. It is a very common security controls that are largely in Norwegian prisons today, but which we want to continue. When you talk about children and visits, it's within proposal No. 9, which applies to the full visit of visitors to prisoners taken for possession or use of drugs during acquittal. That's where the difference lies. I understand that it may be difficult for some to see that difference, and the representative Chaudhry is an expert on not seeing such differences. The family is being punished, says the representative Chaudhry. Yes, the family is kind of punished. In fact, it also becomes the family when the person is put in prison. Once a criminal is imprisoned, it is also a punishment for the family, because when a father, or a representative of the family, is deprived of liberty, and is taken away from his family. It's kind of a punishment as well. But it is also the case that when this person is in prison and once again violates the law – once again violates the laws and regulations – the person is to be punished for it, and one of the consequences is regrettable that family members can also be punished for it. The representative, Chaudhry, said something like that in his previous post, the Progress Party claims that family members are smuggling drugs. No, we don't claim it, but it's a fact that they do. Then I will ask the question back to Chaudhry: Will Chaudhry claim that family members do not smuggle drugs into prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2046	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry was very concerned about the progress during the settlement, and pointed to various measures that should then be taken. But isn't that exactly what would have been important, to avoid the prisoner continuing his drug addiction? Wouldn't that just make it possible to get a progression that would be positive? Then Akhtar Chaudhry was busy with the family, children's right to see their father or mother, or a family member, who's in custody. Once again, I want to say, won't that family member, that child, be most served with an inmate who actually manages to get out of the vicious circle that it is to be a drug addict and to be in prison? Wouldn't that actually be the best? Here, I think perhaps, the representative should be a little more involved in the proposal before he believes that the Progress Party is undermining its own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2055	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The President will ask the representatives to sit and not leave the Chamber. [[Fotation, see page 3513]] The President intends to proceed to a temporary vote on one particular matter. At the request and request of the administration and the President, the representative Per Roar Bredvold has shown the flexibility, flexibility and goodwill it is to accept that case no. 9 will be moved from today's map, i.e. map number. 83, to the Stortingen meeting the next Tuesday. This has to be up to voting. Is there anyone who's against it? – It’s not – Case No. 9 moved to Tuesday. The President assumes that, in particular, the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which is to meet, is pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2079	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Steinar Gullvåg, then Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2090	Initially, there is reason to stress that we are now dealing with an adaptation of today's disability benefit to a new pension scheme. The law is of a maximum temporary nature and will only apply until a new disability pension scheme enters into force. The government has made it clear that proposals for new disability benefits adapted to the pension reform will be submitted to the Stortinget during this year. This proposition does not lead to further work on a new disability pension. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee considers that the guiding principles of a new age pension must also be reflected in the design of a new disability pension. It concerns the vesting of pension entitlements, pension conditions and benefits. In this context, it is necessary to comment on the actual point of intersection between disability and old-age pensions and the issue of life expectancy adjustment of the old-age pension. During the examination of the proposal, a broad majority of the Committee supported the government's proposal that the disability pension should be valid until 67 years of age and subsequently replaced by the retirement pension with the retirement adjustment. This is not a principle position, and that does not mean that the same majority will necessarily have the same opinion in the continuation. More than that, it is an expression of the fact that the temporary system of size now decides that life expectancy is so short that the vital adjustment is of so little importance that the majority have not found it worthwhile to enter into a discussion about a compensation scheme in this round. However, we will return to that question when dealing with a new disability pension. In addition, the government has opted for a different point of intersection of the transition between disability and old-age pensions in the presentation of the legislative proposal 107, i.e. the adjustment of the AFP in the public sector, occupational retirement provision and old-age pension, to which the Committee is now dealing and to which the Stortinget will return. Here, the limit between disability pension and old-age pension is drawn at the age of 70 years, with the good intention of shielding disability pensioners against living-age adjustment over the period 67–70 years. However, the basis for calculating the old-age pension is withdrawn from the age of 67. The reason, of course, is that disability has limited opportunities to compensate for an increase in life expectancy by continuing to work. Therefore, it is both natural and necessary to re-assess the point of intersection between disability pension and old-age pension for the treatment of a new disability pension, including the adjustment of life expectancy. I also assume that a new disability pension, like the other pension reform, will stimulate work, which means that everyone with reduced working capacity will also be given the opportunity to work and income. Therefore, it is necessary to make it easier to commute between social security and work without loss of rights. In other words, it is worth working, whether it is only a little, while the pension scheme is designed to ensure the existence of all those who have lost or have very little working capacity. In other words, I want a disability pension scheme that does not stop, but actually opens up the possibility of participation in working life – both for the sake of the disabled themselves and for the needs of society. I think we should soon realize that everyone who, for various reasons, has lost some of their working capacity, and is currently being excluded from the labour market, is actually an unused resource! I see that the Progress Party is delighted that a majority equates disability pensioners with other age pensioners after age 67, in the sense that they can work as much as they want without shortening the pension. Now, as opposed to the Advancement Party, I have limited my belief that people who have lost more and less their working capacity suddenly recover as soon as they reach the age of 67. But the interesting thing – or revealing – is this party's attitude to disability and disability. They obviously believe, and as a starting point, that a large number of disadvantaged people are actually in work, that they abuse the disability pension scheme and would like to work black next door.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2105	Then the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen gets the word as the next speaker, because he was advertised before the Advance Party. Then it's Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2108	It is nice that the lists of speakers are now organized according to the polls. We appreciate that. Policy can often be short-sighted; we can forget that we have a responsibility not only for those who live today, but also for future generations. It's in that perspective that we need to see the pension agreement. The pension settlement is the crucial welfare reform that can ensure that we can deliver a sustainable welfare society to future generations. The pension agreement means that we all have to give a little something to ensure the security and stability of our welfare systems. That is also the main reason why the Right supports the proposals that lie here today. The right has a long tradition as a responsible, whole party that wants to reform to preserve the fundamental security of our welfare society. The proposition we're dealing with here today is a continuation of the pension agreement. There is no reason to pretend that the pension agreement and all the changes it entails are painless. Nor should we fail to make changes if necessary, but we must have the overall objective of managing our welfare society on behalf of the next generation, and that a reform of the pension system has been necessary. It is therefore important that the basic principles of the pension reform apply as much as possible to all persons receiving disability pension. However, the right is very critical that the government has been faced with a situation where a proposal for a temporary transitional arrangement has to be submitted until a new disability pension enters into force. From NOU 2007:4 New disability and old-age pensions for the disabled were presented in May 2007 and until today, it should have been more than possible to present a comprehensive and final proposal for the coordination of disability and old-age pensions that could enter into force from 1 January 2011. Unfortunately, this inadequacy has become a feature of pension matters, as we are also witnessing when we see that the pension reform itself is postponed by one year, from 2010 to 2011, that the changes in the AFP in the private sector were postponed from 2006 to 2008, and with the ongoing treatment of pensions and AFP for government employees. Unfortunately, the long duration of government treatment in these cases creates considerable uncertainty in the population — an uncertainty particularly affecting beneficiaries of disability pensions. For them, it's extra bad. They must now live with a temporary system with no certainty as to which system will come. It is also extra sin if there are political games and disagreements within the government that create this insecurity for people. In this context, it is important for the Right to say clearly and clearly from what premises we want to work to get into the case and into the next round, and we challenge the government parties to do the same here today. For example, SV said: before the election campaign that they ‘will provide long-term care for those who have been non-pensioners and who have no longer the opportunity to work towards the effect of the living adjustment’. At the same time, they also said that: ‘it would not be reasonable for those in employment up to the retirement age to protect those who have been under-pensioners during the last years prior to the transition to an old-age pension against the age adjustment’. Will the government parties say something here today to all those who now have to live in uncertainty about what will come from the government's team later on at this point? It is unfortunate that the standard of living for recipients of disability pensions cannot be seen in a coherent way, because the proposition only proposes a temporary scheme. The right believes equally fully that lifestyle adjustment is a central principle that must apply, including for those who have received a disability pension. But of course, we are willing to look at different adaptations for people who have never really had an opportunity to enter the labour market. But it's worth remembering that many people with a disability pension who are currently using the opportunity to earn up to 1 G can contribute a little bit without getting a curtailment of the payments. At the same time, there are also many people who do not have a disability pension but who still will not find it beneficial or possible to work after the age of 67. I would also like to remind you that the Right Repeatedly in this Chamber, in the context of budgets and other things, has made proposals to make it easier to work and to make it easier to combine disability pension with some activity in the labour market. Right-wing supports the proposals presented today, but it is a pity that people have to live in uncertainty and be fed off with a temporary system, instead of getting security and security for what kind of system they can expect in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2144	The next speaker is Robert Eriksson. – The President will draw attention to the reason why the representative Eriksson has the floor as No. 3, in line with practice, the word will be given to the person already advertised. It's probably hardly up and down on the gallup that's the background for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2147	The representative, Eriksson, will live very well by having the floor as no. Three, too. The issue we are dealing with today is in many ways a follow-up to the pension reform. It is a matter of temporary arrangements, precisely because one has not been able – as the representative Røe Isaken had in mind – to put in place a permanent regulation, a permanent disability scheme, the link to the pension reform and the new age pension system. Like the representative of the Red Isaac, I think it is a pity that we have to move on to a temporary arrangement. It is a pity that we have not been given any clarity as to what the final arrangement will be, especially given that the consultation period – which was also covered by the Røe Isaksen – has already expired in the autumn of 2007. A reasonable opportunity and reasonable time should have been allowed to present the ordinary case to ordinary proceedings within the time limits set. Then I would like to remind you that the Progress Party was the party that opposed the pension reform, and we have also opposed the lifestyle adjustment. Then we acknowledge and record that a political majority in this Chamber has unfortunately agreed to the adjustment of life expectancy. It forces us to make some decisions today in the case of disability pensioners who have earned up to retirement, and make a living adjustment, because otherwise I think there are many who will see it as very unreasonable that you should get a far higher retirement pension that has been unfit for work than those who have equivalent earnings, who have been out of work. I do not think any parties have wanted that either, and it is also a sort of explanation of vote that the Progress Party is in the comments we are in favour of, and why we are voting as we do when the legislative proposal is to be voted on. Then I want to point out two things: it has, among other things, a debate on the adjustment of life expectancy, that the unemployed will have lower pensions and no longer have the opportunity to remain in the labour market. That's what's been the big rhetoric and the great results of the research that's been done. I would also like to stress that the Progress Party has not taken a final decision on the adjustment of life expectancy, and I also feel that the Committee has not taken a final decision on this issue either. There is something you should take a final decision on when the matter comes to consideration. But what concerns me in this bill proposal, and the Progress Party is opposed, is that you give the law retroactive force by removing the Best Year rule. We can take a person who was born in 1962, who is disqualified today, and who will go off as an old age pensioner in the future. In this case, new legislation for calculating the old-age pension will be the basis for this. That means that the best-year rule disappears. It puts a line over all the rights earned to the current date. It also does for old-age pensioners. This is a hard thing for the Progress Party. That is why we will also be voting against that law, and we are promoting our own proposal that the best-year rule should not be waived. That proposal will lead to the loss of very many disability pensioners, too, in future retirement pensions. Here we can talk about several thousand dollars for those who have wages up to 400,000 dollars. Before you were dissatisfied, you talk about tens of thousands of dollars in reduced retirement. The second is that the Progress Party will go against the way in which it is proposed to regulate the payment time of pensions. It is simply because we believe that it should be the Stortinget, not the Office or the Ministry, which should be able to determine those regulations by regulation. We believe – as we have promoted in the past – that this should be done in line with wage developments, and we have also opposed the new regulatory provisions. That is also the background and the reason why we vote this way in this case. Finally, I will be allowed to say that I look forward to the final issue of disability benefit being placed on the table. I hope we get it within the deadline that has been said, in 2010, and that it is added to a good and proper treatment of it. This will also be a heavy and demanding matter to unload in Stortinget. With this, I address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2173	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The president pointed out that the regulatory time for the morning's meeting was a few minutes ago. The President proposes that this meeting continue until the revision of the current map has been completed – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2178	I agree with everything that was said by the case rapporteur. Today we are dealing with a temporary arrangement. This applies both to the legislative proposals and to the regulatory homes we are giving today. We will come back to the realities in all these circumstances when we are going to deal with the matter of new disability benefits and old-age pensions for those who have had disability benefits when that matter comes. It's a big and difficult thing. It's not very easy issues we have to decide on. We have adopted a new pension scheme, which, if you want to name it, is very fine for everyone who is healthy and can stay in work for a long time – they have absolutely very great benefits in that system. However, there will be some additional challenges especially in making an old-age pension for those who are disabled and who have not had the opportunity to work and earn pension credits like others, and who cannot compensate for living adjustments by standing longer in work. It's a dilemma, and I think that all parties have to take over the dilemma that it is, and how we're going to find schemes that make this an age pension that people who have lived on disability for a long time should also be able to have a good old age with. There has been a discussion of the principles for how this should be done. That discussion should, of course, go forward too – until we conclude with which arrangements to land. Of course, the arrangements we land on must be within the framework of the new pension scheme that we have adopted, but it must take into account that both the ongoing disability benefit is to live on, and the retirement pension we end up with is to live on. Something else will create poverty, and I really don't think anyone in this room is interested in it. So we come back to the elements of this case. I just need to comment on the discussion that you have a wish that this matter had come before. You can always have that. Several representatives say that this creates uncertainty for someone who might initially be in a difficult situation, and I respect that. If you have been granted a disability benefit, you have been in a difficult situation, and it is very difficult for that person to see how he can change his situation. Therefore, people living on public benefits, of course, become unsafe when such discussions about changes in the income base are underway. It's natural. That's why I think it's good that we take the time it takes to discuss ourselves through to a system that we're sure works well. I believe that urgency can be a burden in such situations, and that we will end up with solutions that are not good enough. It's a task SV intends to take very seriously when we're going to work out the new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2191	The introduction of a flexible old-age pension into the population's security as of 1 January 2011 requires adaptations to the disability pension of the population. A new disability pension will be the last component of the work on a new pension scheme. The adaptations proposed in this proposal are temporary, as several others have already mentioned. However, the centre party will now, like a majority of the Committee, demonstrate that the guiding principles of a new age pension must also be reflected in the design of a new disability benefit. The pension reform covers the entire pension scheme. Unearned pensions and old-age pensions for disabled persons are the last stage, and the Central Party believes it is important that a system which also contributes to a sustainable pension system, a socially equitable pension system and not least a pension system with incentives to work. Lifetime adjustment is a key element of the new age pension that will enter into force from 2011. The Centre also supports the inclusion of disabled persons and pensioners from 2011, until one is transferred to an age pension at the age of 67, under the general rules on the adjustment of life expectancy. We're going to get back to the permanent arrangement. The centre party would point out that people who are totally or partially out of work do not have the same opportunity as others to compensate for their increased life expectancy by longer working hours. At the same time, a very large proportion of old-age pensioners do not come from work but from another social security benefit. The protection of all disabled persons from life expectancy adjustment may therefore seem difficult to reconcile with the overall sustainability of the pension system. For the Central Party, it is important that a maximum part of the working resource we have is actually used. One must also have a measure of controlling the growth of social security payments. Every crown used for social security benefits has an alternative use, and we have an obligation to balance the generation accounts. The Committee's attitude shows that the Christian People's Party has chosen not to go in for a living-age adjustment at this point in time. I understand that it is pleasant to distance myself from this proposal now, but at the same time the Christian People's Party is involved in a formulation that says: ‘The Life Adjustment ensures the sustainability of the pension system over time.’ The number of recipients of disability benefits has increased in recent years, and the growth in the cost of disability pensions has been high. Something fasitant about how we can slow down this development, we don't have. However, it is likely that the growth of disability is not just about insurmountable health problems and demographic developments. Then we can assume that in the unfinished statistics, there is a large residual capacity to work. That challenge can and should be met in many ways. A new disability pension and old-age pension for disabled people are an important part of this work, but in no way sufficient to achieve the goal of more people at work and less in social security. Then it is said from the opposition that the matter is too late. It's a repetition that when parties agree with the government, the matter comes too late, so we can just take note of that. In this case, as we have done in the pension agreement so far, the centre party shall not choose short-term, popular measures that may challenge the sustainability of the overall pension system and the balance of the generational accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2220	Before I contact the representative Pollestad, I would just like to thank the committee for a very good discussion. I think it's been done in a very good way, and I thank you, not least the case spokesman, for a good job and for a very good post. Then I'd say I'm more critical of the government. To the representative Pollestad: I am not critical of the government and that this matter comes very late, because I agree with the government and therefore use it as a argument. One must remember that in August 2005, a public selection was set up. The selection presented its setting in May 2007, and it was broadcast on the listener. This means that for three years the government has known what the selection recommended, and for over two and a half years, the government has known what the hearing authorities have meant about the proposal. That's why I think it's also a responsibility for those who want to make choices about what they're thinking about pension, a much better treatment than what's going on here. That's why I and the Christian People's Party thought it sad that we were dealing with a temporary arrangement instead of being able to see all the moments together. That would be much better. I know that the case-speaker and the committee are also some of them. That's why I'm happy with the comments that are here. But for the Christian People's Party, we support the principle of a new age pension. Therefore, I would like to stress that we want a viable pension system, and we want to think from a generation perspective. Therefore, I would also like to use the possibility to stress that it is important for us that the pension reform is followed up and that one also has the consequences that it has in several cases. Not least, I would also say that the lifestyle adjustment is an important principle. The fact that we can get incentives that make more people want to do more work, and that they pay off is an important principle. But then the challenge is that one sees that there is someone who doesn't have the ability to work anymore – and there is also the deviation from the Christian People's Party in this setting. We support the proposals in the proposal with the exception of the proposal on the adjustment of living age. We do that because the principle of lifestyle adjustment is that you should get an incentive to do more work. The people who are no longer able to work will therefore be affected by what is happening today. Therefore, I am pleased that several people stress that there is a temporary arrangement that is being attached. I would also like to stress that for the Christian People's Party, our decisions in this matter are temporary. But those who have a full and permanent disability pension, who have had it until they are 67 years old, do not have the same ability to work. I mean, the background for whether or not you're going to go into lifestyle adjustment is not well enough illuminated in the proposition. There are also no other ways of compensating for the fact that a person no longer has the ability to work. So it's been said in my hearing that nothing is more final than the temporary. I thought it was really good to say, especially when I heard the representative Pollestad from the Central Party. He actually used his article to argue about why he wants to adjust his life expectancy, at least the way I interpret him – because he won't take popular action, and one should take tough contractions. I have to say that worries me. For the way I feel about it, there is a temporary system that makes it easier to introduce a living-age adjustment because one avoids the debate. In this way a little bit sneaks in the back door, and then when the final and permanent arrangement is to be decided, it's much easier just to say that something has already been added. That's why I thought it was challenging. But once again, I would like to stress that the reason why the Christian People's Party does not want it now is that we want to see it in a whole world. We may end up introducing a standard of living and that the Storting and the Government do well that model. But we want to see it in such a way that one at least makes it possible to compensate people who can't use the incentive to work any longer. That's why I want to say that it creates security for those who are going to make a choice, and for those who are looking for a pension, because a temporary arrangement will always give some leadership, and it creates some expectations. Finally, I suggested that this would be temporary. I am pleased that the case spokesman and SV – I stress it – and the centre party stressed that it was temporary. I would rather challenge the Council of State to stress the same thing, that it is a temporary arrangement, and that one should come back with a holistic review. And I would also like to challenge the Council of State to what it might think about other possible compensation schemes if one sees that one introduces a living-age adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2236	Work on pension reform has been ongoing for many years and is based on broad political settlements in the United Kingdom. The reform ensures future pensions, and it is important to widen the scope of this pillar in the welfare state. I am therefore pleased with the good cooperation with the settlement partners that we have behind the pension reform. Last year, the Stortinget adopted a new age pension in the population. After this historic milestone, it is necessary to adapt other parts of the pension scheme. Before Christmas last year, some necessary adjustments were adopted in the area of population protection, and in February this year, Stortinget adopted the new AFP Act on private sector subsidies. I point out that proposals for adaptations to the AFP and public sector occupational retirement provision are now being discussed in the Stortinget. As I come back to, the government is also working on proposals for a new disability benefit and an old-age pension for disabled people. The introduction of a new flexible age pension in the social security system is known from 1 January 2011. The current legislative proposal deals with temporary rules for the non-introduction of an old-age pension adapted to a new old-age pension. These rules will be in force until new defaults are in place. It is proposed that the transition to an old age pension should continue at 67 years of age and that partially disabled persons should also benefit from the flexibility of the new old age pension. It is important that this group be given the opportunity to adapt the work effort in line with their own wishes and needs, instead of the fact that the increase in the disability rate is the only way to slow down. I note that there are differing views on the issue of life expectancy adjustment of unemployed old-age pension. This is a big and difficult case that requires a wide and thorough review. I believe it is important to take this assessment in the context of the introduction of a new disability scheme. Then we're going to look at all aspects of uneducated social security benefits. I would like to stress that we have not taken a final position on the issue of the adjustment of the retirement pension to the disability. I would remind you that the first annual coals covered by a new age pension are already partially protected from the effects of the life-style adjustment by its gradual introduction. The member of the Committee from the Christian People's Party states that a temporary solution automatically stresses that there should also be a living adjustment in the permanent scheme. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to make it quite clear that today's decision will not be used as an argument for introducing a living-age adjustment into the permanent scheme. The decision taken in this context shall be on its own. I have otherwise noticed that some are critical that it takes time to prepare proposals for a new disability scheme. This is a major and important matter that affects many, and which has great economic and social significance. A thorough review is therefore important. Having said that, I would like to stress that this matter is being worked out too fully, and I can assure you that it has a high priority in the government. As described in the proposal, the government plans to promote the bill on new disability benefits and a new old-age pension for disabled people in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2254	I allow myself to ask two questions about something that I think is a little unclear. Let's say that there's a person who becomes 62 after the summer, and then he works 50 pst. and is 50 pst. unretired. He wondered if he was going to take out the AFP according to today's rules, or if he was going to wait until 2011 and take out the AFP according to new rules. This really means that you have to write off your disability if you take out the AFP. The AFP according to today's rules provides far higher earnings and a much higher pension payment than with new rules. My question is: If you cancel the disability allowance and take out the AFP, what consequences will it have for any collective payments of disability benefit – and what you have earned in the collective agreement? Can the Council of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2263	I just have to admit that I don't fully understand the question when it's directed at that it's the collective benefits compared to that... is it possible to get a clarification of the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2268	The representative Eriksson is allowed to put the question into concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2271	A number of people also have a collective disability coverage covered by their employer. What kind of consequences will there be in dispensation of the disability pension of the people? Will it have consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2276	I simply have to say that I am not quite sure of the answer to that question. I think it might be solved in the collective agreement that you have. In that case, I must come back to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2281	I would first like to say that I am also very pleased that there is a good cooperation on pension matters. I believe that this shows some of the strength of Norwegian policy, that when there are major reforms that are important, different parties are able to stand together. But I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on this which goes on to what extent the temporary arrangement now being presented is leading the way for what is coming in the future. If it's the way to understand that the Council of State thinks there's no lead at all, does that mean that the Council of State thinks you're starting from level zero, with nothing, with completely blank sheets, when you're going to make a proposal for a permanent arrangement? In this case, does it mean that the principle of living adjustment, which has been fully central to the pension reform and which, in my understanding, at least implicitly applies to all, has been thrown out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2288	I want to emphasize that I don't think you ever start from zero. As the representative also underlined, a pension reform has been adopted that bases the adjustment of life expectancy. That is also the whole basis for now, in this temporary arrangement, saying that we are applying the same principle. We're not doing anything now until we've taken the thorough review we're going to take to see how it will work for this group, which – and it was pointed out quite correctly here – cannot work to compensate for reduced pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2293	As the proposition and the bill are posted, you can work 50 pst from the age of 62. and be 50 pst. completed. When you get 67, you get an old age pension, and if you've got a better job, you can keep working until you're 70 and maybe even longer. Let's say he also has the right to earn a private AFP, and he earns it to the age of 70. Do I understand correctly that it is that if you take out that AFP share at 70 years, is the division rate at withdrawal 70 years being taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2300	If I understand the question correctly, it's about the ratio of 67 to 70 years in Prop. 107 L and in this, Prop. Eighty-two. L. What I can say about it is that we've taken 70 years into account in the AFP proposition, because it's an important continuation of today's system, while here we've laid the groundwork for 67 years. I don't know if that was the answer to the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2306	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good report and for clarifying what is involved in the adjustment of life. But then I got a little unsure again when I heard the answer to the representative, Røe Isaksen, who went the same way. That's why I want to challenge a little bit more about life-style adjustment, because I realize that the government is working on those paths, and that it's now only introduced temporarily, but it might look like it's going to be final. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State whether it can say anything about what it thinks as any compensation – if there is a living adjustment – in order to avoid one coming out as a loser because one is no longer able to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2311	I emphasize that it doesn't start at zero, but that this is a temporary arrangement. Now let's look at all of the sides. I think it is wrong for me now to say something about what different arrangements you have. But one thing that comes to mind is what the sample also suggested at the time, which was to look at how the population else behaves in relation to life expectancy adjustment. I'm just mentioning that as one example. What is important is to make sure that non-employees do not come after because the population otherwise compensates. Otherwise, if the population does not compensate or work any longer, it would not be right to compensate the same for misconduct. This is one thought model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2318	It's possible I'm a little confused in my interpretations now, but it sounds improperly like there's one answer when the Right asks questions, and another answer when the Christian People's Party asks questions. We all understand that this is a temporary arrangement, but what the Council of State stressed in its statement was that this did not mean anything at all about what was going to be the permanent arrangement. Then my question, which I am now repeating with a slightly different wording: in the pension agreement, it is a central premise that there should be an adjustment in the standard of living, implicitly also that it should apply to all. Does the Council of State agree that there is a central premise in the pension agreement, which is also, of course, going to shape what is coming about the permanent arrangement of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2325	I'm glad I get the opportunity to clarify it, because of course I mean it. But what I'm also saying is that now you have to look at – as the sample did – how this will turn out for those who can't work anymore. Even if you say that this is temporary, you don't say that you can't totally imagine a type of model in terms of lifestyle adjustment, as I understand that the committee also sees as a basis. But you put blank sheets in the review. Now you have to look at how this turns out, and then you have to look at different models to compensate for not being able to work any longer when you're out of work. But I underline, as I said earlier, this must be related to how this turns out to be working, so that you keep the right balance between pensions for those who can work and those who can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2330	The cord shift is over. Step Skei Grande has the last five minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2335	That's nice. I hope I don't use up my goodwill, because I didn't really need it right now. I just want to take the floor for a brief explanation of vote, as the Left is not represented in the Committee. We, on the left, share the criticism with the other part of the opposition in the comments on the government's preliminary work on the matter. The government has been completely unnecessary in a situation where it is necessary to present a proposal on transitional arrangements until the entry into force of a new disability pension, while two and a half years have been needed to propose a new disability pension to the Stortinget, without having received it. For us, this is probably an example of the fact that there is such internal disagreement in the government that it leads to weakened democratic processes in the Storting. This is a matter where there should not be a need for transitional arrangements, but where a new disability pension could have had a thorough and good treatment in Stortinget. We could then be ready for both phase-in and implementation at the same time as the introduction of a new pension scheme. The left will nevertheless agree with the majority of the transitional arrangements promoted in the vote. It is a guiding principle of the entire pension agreement, which Left supports, that the disability pension should be adapted to the main principles of the pension reform at a new flexible retirement age. This does not mean that the Left with it provides a prior guarantee to support all the proposals for a new disability pension when it comes to the Stortinget. It depends on whether the government chooses to include us as a pension settlement partner in advance or not, as the government has done in this case. Then we will be part of and contribute to the follow-up to the pension settlement in Stortinget, and I hope that we too can be a consulting partner in that scheme. But we support the main setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2346	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The next speaker is Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, which the President thinks should take up proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2351	That's quite right, even if it would be nice to drag the debate even further and not go into the nice weather. My purpose is really just to promote the Christian People's Party's proposal. In addition, I am pleased with the debate we have had, and that we now see that this is a temporary scheme, and that we may have good compensation arrangements if the living adjustments are proposed in the permanent scheme. I thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2358	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2361	With the little debate we have had on the principles of lifestyle adjustment in dealing with this matter, I feel the need to underline a few things. The first is that we no longer discuss whether or not living adjustments should be part of the pension scheme. Life-age adjustment is a guiding principle of a new pension system and will also be so when discussing the disability pension scheme in the course of its continuation. On the other hand, what we have every reason to discuss is how disability pensioners in the future who no longer have the opportunity to compensate for the life expectancy adjustment with participation in the labour market should be compensated or shielded from the effects of living adjustments in the pension system. This is a very important difference, because just as there is a big difference in the working capacity of the disabled, and of course also the level of disability, there will have to be different compensation schemes for these groups. It is necessary to have a proper review of when we are discussing a new disability pension scheme in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2370	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. As previously decided, case No. 9 on the agenda moved to Tuesday. [[Fotation, see page 3514]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2380	The size must then vote on the case No. 5-8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2387	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to grant the necessary funds to initiate the immediate construction of a new and improved control post in the Telemark Prison entry point, the Ski Department.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2415	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The government is asking the government to present the necessary legislative proposals to refuse to provide public services to people who are engaged in a successful trade. II The Government asks the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to prohibit the use of thick clothing in public places.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2446	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 4-10, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1-9 has been included in the setting on page 5, while proposal No. 10 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Right, have been converted into proposals for transmission. Proposal No. 1 shall then read as follows: ‘The government is advised to develop a strategy that can be implemented in all prisons, where drug problems, lack of schooling and crime are seen in the context.’ Proposal No. 2 is replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the government submit proposals for measures leading to a greater level of responsibility for drug use by prisoners in restitution, including penalties for offences against the prohibition of drug use.’ The President proposes that both of these proposals be sent to the Government without any substantive consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2472	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present in the 2011 State Budget an action package for better drug control of prisoners and visitors in Norwegian prisons.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal. The voting boards showed that 48 votes were cast for the proposal and 48 votes against the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.52.03]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2486	So it's equal to the number of votes. The President is Vice-President and does not have a double vote. Of course, we can try to take this voting one more time to see if there are anyone who would like to make sure that we move on in the process. The President will vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2498	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement immediately the necessary security measures at Oslo Prison.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2517	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 4 to 9, from the Party of Progress: Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of extended capacity for the training of drug dogs to criminal services.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up its own rooms with increased security as a glass wall for prisoners who have been taken for drug use or possession of drugs during restitution.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to impose mandatory controls on all items, visitors and prisoners entering and leaving prison by assessing, inter alia, the use of new technological instruments.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the use of more stringent sanctions on prisoners who break Norwegian law during abduction and for the purpose of assessing the withdrawal of leave as such.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit the possession of cash by law in Norwegian prisons.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a full visit by visitors to prisons taken for possession or use of drugs under settlement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2569	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary changes in order to convert pension funds earned before 2010 into old-age pensions and not to derogate from the best-year rule.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment in the law of the rules governing the procedure for the calculation of the standard of living so that any changes must be decided by the Stortinge.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be put on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 5 June 2009 32 on changes in the Swedish Social Security Act is amended as follows: Section 19-5(a) of Part I is replaced by the following: § 19-5(a) Old-age pension for former disability pensioners – compensation for retirement adjustment When moving from disability pension to old-age pension, a supplement to the old-age pension corresponding to the difference between the disability pension and the old-age pension after this chapter shall be calculated. [[new age pension]] The Ministry shall prescribe the calculation of additions in accordance with this provision, including when the disability pension was graduated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2770	Paragraphs 20–4 and 20–18, under I. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2784	The remainder of I and the whole of II, III and IV are then voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2804	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-27.ana.ud1188e2817	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
