ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e26	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e29	On behalf of Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to make a proposal not to allow the use of niqab and burka or other lucky garments in the public room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e34	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e37	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Åse Michaelsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to combat drug problems in Norwegian prisons. And: On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Solvency Horne and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to amend the Norwegian authorities' handling of child abduction issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e44	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e47	I am delighted to present proposals on behalf of the representatives of Kjell Ivar Larsen, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and myself on the evaluation of the law that regulates the construction of power lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e52	The representative of Oskar Jarle Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e55	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Kjell Ivar Larsen, Tord Lien, Robert Eriksson and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e83	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e92	2008-2009 was a black year for combating crime in Norway. The percentages of information fell dramatically, the thefts increased, and most crime statistics that were not dependent on police activity increased crime. In areas where it is dependent on police investigation, as in drug cases, it fell — not because it was less criminal, but because it was significantly less police activity to prevent drug distribution in Norway. Then came the crisis package and then the draft budget from the government. The government had a generous praise campaign for which force was now taken for the police. Two months out in the new year there will be some other messages. Hordaland Police Chamber must cut 72 police posts. Asker and Bærum report that they have to cut with 50, Telemark with 20, Hedmark with 20, Rome with 20 – no, with 50, I had hoped it was a little less. All of this is a historic commitment to the police. VG has documented that new police students now have to go to Nav because they are not offered a job, despite the Minister of Justice saying that everyone should get a job. VG claimed on Sunday that a total of 360 annual works now had to be cut in the police to cover the ICT bet that the government obviously had not budgeted for in the budget. My question to the Prime Minister is: When the Minister of Justice said there were 1,100 more posts in the police department, did he really talk?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e105	I agree that fighting crime is very important. As long as people become victims of crime, it's something that characterizes them very much. It goes into them, and they get little comfort from average numbers and total numbers. Still, it's the total number of us politicians deal with, because that's what gives the police a framework. If we look at the totals, we see that there has been a strong reinforcement of the police in recent years. Only in the 2010 budget is there an increase of SEK 1.3 billion, and it has allowed for an increase in the number of police posts. What we've been doing over the last two years is not just increasing the appropriations, but also increasing the educational capacity, because it was a big problem that there were too few educated people from the Police College. Now we're at more than twice as far as education in the police is concerned, compared to what it was like when Erna Solberg himself was in government. In addition, around 460 new civil posts have been created to release other posts for police work. Police districts receive letters of credit, letters of assignment, and then they have increased appropriations. But it is true that some money has been held back to invest in ICT, among other things. In view of what the Riksrevision has pointed out, one of the problems facing the police is the lack of investment in ICT. So it's done a lot, there's going to be a lot of new jobs, but of course it can be done even more, and we're busy doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e114	I asked the question: Did Minister of Justice Storberget speak the truth when he said in the VG that we have acquired 1 100 more police posts? How can it rhyme with a reality where Hordaland is going to cut the police chamber with 72, Romerike with 50 – I can take the list again. It's not the numbers that come out there. It's important that we know what we're granting. What has obviously happened is that the Government has not taken into account – in its external boast of the bet – that a new ICT system will enter into this. It doesn't automatically give police power. So my question is, was the Great Mountain true when he said there's 1,100 more police posts? According to VG, there will be 360 fewer jobs due to ICT bets. This means that more than the extra bet to be released by the new civil posts has been removed, because there were 280 posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e121	There are no final figures for how many more jobs we are going to have in 2010 compared to 2009, so it is not possible today to say for sure how many jobs there will be. What we know is that, in combination with what has been done by granting more jobs to civil positions, 460 posts, plus increased appropriations for ordinary police positions, it gives room to step up the efforts of the police. And if we look at the last two years as a whole, it's a significant escalation. We do not have the final figures for 2010, but there has been a significant increase in funding and a significant increase in educational capacity. Then we get the final numbers later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e126	Three follow-up questions are raised – first André Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e129	The core of the question to Solberg's representative was quite clear, so I'm going to be very brief. So that was the question: is there going to be 1 100 new annual works during this year, as the Minister of Justice and the Government promised in the presentation of the budget? I stand here with a letter from all the rapporteurs throughout Follo, among others, who are now considering breaking up with the Government and the police because it is now being seen to be quite the opposite of what the Government promised when it was going to adopt reforms in, among other things. Follo. The question is short and good: Will there be or will there not be 1 100 new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e136	The adopted budget applies, the money comes, and the educational capacity of the Police College has increased. Police districts will now receive their letters of assignment and will make recruitment and staffing adjustments based on those letters. And so we don't have the final numbers yet. Many of the claims made in the press are controversial. Many have different numbers, but the crucial thing is that we don't get final numbers until there's been a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e141	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e145	I'm recording the Prime Minister's debt on the press and claims in the press. But as head of the Justice Committee, I have visited some of the police districts and talked to police officers in different districts, and the situation description put on the table last autumn by the Minister of Justice, about 1 100 new posts, is not real. Now it's down-staffing, or to say it in another way: you don't have the resources to take in new personnel – whether they're newly educated or they've changed jobs. I also think it is relevant to look at the report from the Police Directorate, which tells us that the police districts are unable to meet their targets. And in addition, they will reduce their operating budgets and not take in more policemen and women. So I think the prime minister should perhaps be a little more responsible in relation to the situation that the police officers are signalling, also into big business and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e152	What we know is that there has never been more money allocated to the police than this year. The appropriations are high in record terms, and they are increasing sharply. That's the one thing we know. The second thing we know is that there's never been any more trained policemen than now. Capacity is more than doubled in relation to what it was under the previous government. And the third thing we know is that the years for which we have final figures, namely the last two years, 2008 and 2009, there has been a significant increase in the number of posts, both as a result of increased police positions and the addition of several civilian positions – 460 posts, as part of the agreement we made with the police. We know that. This is a significant increase. The final figures for 2010 are not yet available, but there is considerable budgetary room for further strengthening of the police force in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e160	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e163	I record that the Prime Minister thought it was quite fine that there were going to be cut 460 settings. As I interpret it, it seems to him that it is entirely okay that either the Stortinget has been misinformed, that there should be more police posts, or that the Minister of Justice has been fooled. Because I stand here with a press release he sent out, where he promises that there will be so many police posts and so many police posts in 2010. There's something else that also bothers me a little bit. I'm talking to the headmistress at Police College, and they're very happy that there's going to be more students, 720 new students. But the head of the student board says straight away that he feels like he's a piece of a political game, because there's a lot of students, but it's going to cut in the number of years. And they're worried if they really get a job. So my question to the Prime Minister is, What kind of action does the government want to take to reach the goal of more security, more research and more visible police?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e172	It is essential to say that there are four things we do: one is to give record money to the police – more than ever before. The second is to increase the capacity to train police — more than ever before. The third is to invest in new and better research methods, including: DNA records, which make us get a much more effective investigation. And the fourth thing we do is we reorganize the police – there we've done a lot of action. We are also working on this performance reform, which is all about getting more police force out of the efforts we have. So there'll be more money, more people, better use of resources and better technology. This does not mean that the problems in the police are solved, it does not mean that all crime is combated, but it means that efforts have been significantly strengthened over the last few years, and it is also strengthened in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e177	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e180	In these days there are a number of people around the country who develop a small syndrome: mailbox scare. As we can see in Dagbladet yesterday, people expect the greatest current bill of the time. Sky-high electricity prices are a consequence of a faulty energy policy over several years. While ordinary people have to pay billions more a month, the state makes the same money through taxes and taxes, through dividends on its ownership in the power industry. This happens at the same time that the industry has closed down a lot of production capacity, in fact 5 TWh, which corresponds to approximately. 4,5-5 pst. of Norwegian electricity consumption. This notified crisis comes as a consequence of the fact that one has built up industry, one has not built up power generation – one has got a larger and larger imbalance. Normal households, on the other hand, have over time saved electricity. They use as much electricity today as they did 10–15 years ago, despite the fact that there are considerably more people living in this country. So it's the households that get the bill, the ones that don't owe it to happen. The situation shows that action is needed. The government of the Prime Minister himself has said that the time for hydropower generation is over, the government itself has imposed concession rules on gas power plants that are technically impossible to enforce today, the government itself has built mobile gas power plants that they do not want to use, and the government has voted down proposals from the Progress Party on its own action packages for Middle Norway of 300 million. kr to stimulate power deployment in that region. So the price of all these negative approaches from the Government is that the current price is going up, ordinary people have to pay more. In the newspaper last week, politicians from all parties were asked to provide a list of measures. The centre party, which sits with the Minister of Energy, had as its main point: warmer weather, more rainfall. It is obvious that the weather gods are a significant part of the Government's energy policy. Does the Prime Minister have a little more concrete measures to help ordinary people with the current bill that is coming, and that will mean for people with a bad economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e193	I understand well people who are worried both that we have seen very high power prices, at least in periods of winter, and that we see very wide variations in power prices. It in itself creates uncertainty and unforeseeability. Now, the basic problem in the Norwegian power supply is really three things: one is that we have too little access to power in relation to consumption, the other is that we have too little ability to move the power to where it is needed, and the third is that we are doing too little energy saving. The government is concerned about all three things, and is taking action in all three areas. In terms of power supply, we have had a significant increase in power generation in recent years. Only since 2006 have we received almost 4 TWh of extra wind and hydropower into the Norwegian system, in addition to heat, district heating and other factors that increase access to power. Then much more is allocated to energy saving, which contributes to reducing demand and strengthening the power balance in Norway. With regard to the third problem, we are in the paradoxical situation that last year we experienced that the power prices for a few hours were zero because we did not get power out of areas, now in the same areas we feel that the power price can be very high for a few hours. It is a problem in terms of power flows, and therefore billions of dollars are now invested in new, better and enhanced transmission connections, which will make us even out the prices, avoid the big fluctuations and move power where it is needed from surplus to deficit areas. We're doing this well, we're granting significant sums, we're getting new power on the grid, and we're getting grid reinforcements and increased investment in energy saving. These are the measures that will help to mitigate prices, smooth the fluctuations and address the fundamental problem in the Norwegian power market, namely supply and demand and power flows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e202	One should remember that this government has been sitting for four and a half years. It's really good enough time to get bigger results than what the government refers to. In fact, some projects have been put in place, but the major projects that have been put in place are projects adopted under the Bondevik government, not under the red-green government. One should also remember that many of the projects – almost all the projects that Statnett is doing – are projects that were started under the previous government, i.e. the Bondevik government, and not under this government. What current customers today experience is that despite record-breaking appropriations, the efficiency of money use is very low. So current customers are hit both by the tax bill and by the electricity prices as a result of the government's policy. I also notice that the Prime Minister did not address the problems that people now experience in the short term when the electricity bill comes. A lot of people will do this right, even though it would be uncomfortable to use extra thousand patches because of a bad energy policy, but we'll see, as we saw at NRK More and Romsdal, that many older people freeze at home, because it's those who turn off the power. Will the Prime Minister do something about the situation they are experiencing and ensure that they receive signals, for example: about tax relief, which makes them dare to turn the heat back on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e209	It is such that this government has made a significant effort to strengthen Norwegian power supply. We have given an increased number of commitments, concessions, permits and support that will increase power generation in the coming years. Then we have started – put into operation – projects in the current period. It is quite clear that some of the projects have been promised before, because it takes a few years, but we have started a larger number of projects in this period than before, and in addition we have made commitments to new ones coming in the years to come – both of which are high. With regard to the situation in Central Norway, the most important thing we do is the network reinforcements that are now in progress and that have already partly come. But the problem in Central Norway has been that there has been a great lack of power in the whole Nordic region, and it has turned into Middle Norway. There are great variations, and therefore it's paradoxical that today's power price is actually a little bit lower in Middle Norway than in South Norway. There are these variations we have to do something about by expanding more networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e216	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e220	I guess there's no doubt that you're heading towards a crisis in central Norway. I note that according to NTB, the Prime Minister believes that the solution to extreme electricity prices lies in Sweden. He is now asking the neighbouring countries to fire up their nuclear power plants – which the Government is opposed to, but in this case it is quite okay – and he is opening up to start the mobile gas power plants. All the monks are leaving. I record that different representatives from the government parties in central Norway have been out and demanded that these mobile power plants now start up. Representatives from the Labour Party in Central Norway have said that there will be such a proposal in the Stortinget, and it will have a majority. Now there is such a proposal in Stortinget, promoted by the Progress Party. Then is my question to the Prime Minister: Will the Prime Minister now recommend that representatives of the government parties in this House vote for this proposal, to follow up what these representatives want: to start up these mobile power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e229	It was this government that made sure that we got the spare capacity in these mobile power plants, in case an emergency crisis occurred in Central Norway. It is good that we have them, because it is a good readiness in a possible acute crisis. But I think we have to separate two things. One is that in an acute, local, regional crisis in central Norway, those power plants will be good to have. That's why we got them. However, they have significantly less — if any, at least small — significance for the major regional problem, and the vast majority of days and hours of the problem in central Norway have been the major regional deficit throughout the Nordic region. Therefore, the price in Central Norway has been about the same as in Sweden and Finland every day. At that time, nuclear power stations in Sweden are important because they provide 4000 MW. There are large volumes, while these spare power plants provide 150 MW – times two: about 300 MW. So the important thing about the total force balance in the Nordic region, of which Central Norway is hit, is that Swedish nuclear power comes back to normal production. This must, of course, be done within a safe framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e238	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e241	The Prime Minister himself has been Minister of Oil and Energy in the past. That means he knows what the matter is, and what responsibility he has. During the Bondevik II government, we had a similar price crisis when it came to power supplies. Jens Stoltenberg was out in Dagbladet on 16 December 2002 and then asked Einar Steensnæs to step up and take responsibility for the fact that the power prices had gone to heaven. Stoltenberg stated at the time: ‘An oil and energy minister shall implement short-term and long-term measures if electricity prices make such jumps as we have seen in the last few weeks. He has the possibilities, but he doesn't use them. That's what's up." Jens Stoltenberg said this on December 16, 2002. My question to the Prime Minister today is whether he gets a bad taste in the mouth of the populist statements he made to Dagbladet in December 2002, given the situation he himself is up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e253	The answer to that question is no. I believe that an energy minister is responsible for both the long-term and the short-term balance of power. This government has put in place significant measures that will help both in the short and long term – significant network reinforcements in the long term, significant access to new power, both water and wind, in the short term the things that have been done both in terms of these options where industry is shutting down to contribute to acute crises, and by using the increased transmission capacity that we have put in place. So I think we've done things both in the short and long term. It has helped to mitigate a difficult situation, which is not least due to a large deficit in the Nordic region, which is both due to low rainfall and to the fact that much of the Swedish nuclear power has been out of operation. So today, the power price in Central Norway is a little bit lower than what it is in South Norway, but it's still not stable, because there's so much regional deficit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e260	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e263	Yes, it's a strained power situation, and we've recently had a galloping power price. We know something about the short-term reasons for this: a long cold period, the decommissioning of water storage plants and also the Swedish nuclear power going for half the machine. But we also know the long-term causes of this power market. It's that we have an energy market that is completely market-driven. The market feels too good to do is what is happening — whether it is power supply or network reinforcement. Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen told the nation yesterday that he can't magic. But none of us are asking the Council of State to magic. We ask him to be the Minister of Oil and Energy. My question to the Prime Minister is what thoughts the Prime Minister has made about having a little stronger political governance of energy policy and thus giving the Minister of Energy a greater space for action in terms of security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e272	There is hardly any part of the Norwegian economy that is more politically controlled than the power sector. Everything you do, requires permissions, permits, concessions. The challenge, for example: management, is not that the network companies do not want to provide wires, but that the politicians – what to say – hesitate to say yes to the new lines. In the case of investments, it's the exact same thing. Almost all investments in the power sector are politically driven, and almost all heavy players in the power sector are politically owned. So I think that as politicians, we have to take responsibility for development – whether we are in this government or we are in the previous – and not owe it to a slightly diffuse market. This is a well-regulated system in which politicians sit and are responsible for the most. Then there are serious and difficult balances, for example: between nature considerations and security of supply. What we've seen now is that there's not a basic lack of power in the Nordic region, but that there's so many variations. A few months ago, there was too much force, and the price was extremely low – down to 0 cents. Now it is too little power and difficult to bring it forward, and it is the responsibility of politicians to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e281	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e284	DnB NOR, where the State is the largest owner, recently adopted a historic fine of 12 million. kr for insider dealing. In addition, 14 million have been withdrawn from the Bank. kr. The reason for this, we know that DnB NOR, on the basis of information provided by the central bank, sold government bonds in the bank package and earned a lot of money on it, while other banks lost. Ecocrime submissions include many breaches of the Securities Trading Act rules on the management of inside information. There is a breach of the prohibition on insider dealing. There is a breach of due diligence and of the obligation to list. In addition, the proposal includes a breach of the obligation to have procedures for the safe processing of inside information. As you know, the state is the storehouses of this bank. The bank itself believes that they have not done anything wrong. It didn't fit the bank's management to comment on this, because there was a little uncomfortable time difference between Oslo and Vancouver. But you've let the information department answer the press. There it is said that the performances of Ecocrim do not matter to them, and they do not admit that they have done anything wrong. And on the other hand, ‘There will also be no changes to the bank’s procedures for the treatment of inside information afterwards.’ This is based on the fact that the First State Attorney has characterised the fractures as very serious. So my question is, what does the Government, as the representative of the largest owner, think about active ownership in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e298	I think it is very important that we are tidy and are conscious of the division of responsibilities and work between different actors in this industry. It's true that the state is the owner, but we're also the regulator. Therefore, the State Financial Supervisory Authority found reason to report the case to Ecokrim, and it is Ecokrim that has come to the conclusion that there is a basis for imposing a fine, as a result of a breach of the Securities Trading Act. I record that Ecokrim has not found any reason to criticise the public authorities in this matter. It is the bank’s governing bodies that are responsible for the Bank’s actions, decisions and e.g.: the handling of the fine from Ecocrim. When I say that, it's because the state is a big owner in many companies. At regular intervals, these come into some legal conflict with the authorities, with the police. There have also been legal proceedings. Then it is important that we are very clear that it is the elected bodies of the companies – here it is a listed company – that are responsible, and that the state as owner, large or small, does not begin to mix roles and go into and believe something beyond the responsibility of choosing the board and the governing bodies of the company. So that's how this is going to be handled. The competent bodies of the Bank take the decisions they make, and the State, as a regulator, is responsible for our financial supervision, the Ecocrime and other supervisory authorities that are responsible for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e310	If I had been the largest owner of a company that has received the greatest fine for inside information, which in this case has gone out on other banks, I would say it would have been alarming if you hadn't had a certain interest in the reasons that Ecokrim has stated that they consider the crimes to be very serious. And the bank accepts the fine, but acquits itself. I have to say that if you, as owner, think this is completely uninteresting, you have to ask yourself what active ownership really means. You can't hide behind formalities. I expect that the government has a meaning in being a big owner of this bank, you now have a new capital. I find that for the Prime Minister it is only to mix roles, and that there is no point in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e317	The government is very concerned that laws and regulations are followed — in the financial industry as in other industries. We are very concerned that there are neat conditions, and that rules are being observed. But that's a responsibility we assume through the state agencies that are set to handle this responsibility. It was the State Financial Supervisory Authority that notified DnB NOR, and it is Økokrim that has carried out the investigation and imposed a fine. It's through these organs that we make sure that rules are followed, and that things are enforced as they should. It's not through ownership. My point is not that this is irrelevant. My point is that this is very important. That's why it's important that we act neatly. And it's through financial supervision, police and prosecution that the state is careful that rules are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e326	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e329	There is one thing that amazes me greatly in this matter. The breaches of the Securities Trading Act that DnB NOR has committed are characterised by Økokrim as very serious. When DnB NOR has adopted this fine, they have also assumed responsibility for the matters covered by the present fine. Nevertheless, the bank will not admit that they have done anything wrong, nor will they change the bank's procedures for inside information after that. Økokrim thought it was quite fine and natural that the DnB NOR Chief and Prime Minister texted about the crisis package to the banks. The Prime Minister has not been met with any criticism in that area, and I do not think he will be met with criticism if he continues to text with the bank manager and perhaps cautiously suggests that in the light of this case it is natural that the bank changes its procedures, so that one does not experience such things again. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e336	As I have underlined: precisely because these are important and complicated questions, and because we have large, competent bodies to ensure that procedures are good, that investigations take place as they happen, and that laws and regulations are followed, it is important that we use these bodies. I believe that it is the State Financial Supervisory Authority that is to supervise the Norwegian financial industry, whether the State is a large or a small owner of the various institutions, and that it is Ecokrim that is to investigate and also assess whether there is a basis for imposing a fine or not. The day we start politicizing that kind of regulator, I think we're going to go very wrong. Therefore, I am not going to make this a political issue, but be very sure that the Financial Supervisory Authority and Ecokrim do their job with DnB NOR and with all other banks and companies in the financial industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e343	Jørund Rytman – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e346	Like fraud involving public subsidies and support schemes, economic crime is distorting competition and creates distrust between traders and between public and citizens. Securities crime destroys confidence in the securities market and weakens access to capital to business. In this case, there has been a state-owned joint company that has broken the driving rules. DnB NOR has been fined for this, for which they accept. However, Section 3-4 of the Securities Trading Act opens up so that not only the person acting on inside information, but also the person disseminating such information, can be prosecuted. It is therefore interesting to see the extent to which the role of the State has at any time been seen in the light of §3-4, as it was in view of the contact between the Prime Minister's office and DnB NOR prior to the publication of the Government's package of measures. Can the Prime Minister confirm or deny that Økokrim has been in contact with the Prime Minister's office in connection with the investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e355	So, first of all, ecocrime does not address any criticisms against the public authorities in this case. As far as I have an overview of this, the information that it has been aware of and that is the subject of this fine is the information that was provided by the Bank of Norway in a normal way – but there is no criticism of the Bank of Norway. There has been contact – that contact has been widely mentioned in the press – and it has certainly been useful for everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e360	Inherit Kambe - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e363	In the right we are very pleased that the Prime Minister is concerned that the state should abide by the laws and regulations. In the context of active industrial policy, not all industries have the opportunity to send a text message directly to the Prime Minister. That's why there's a point for us in terms of laws and regulations, that the state has lost two major cases in the Supreme Court in the last two weeks. Last week, a similar adjustment was made by the Government when ESA said that the Norwegian gas charge would be a problem. How does the Prime Minister assess this? Is the government so eager to know the smell of increased tax revenue that one simply forgets to consider whether it is permissible to introduce it, whether it is a good idea to introduce it, and what is the result of introducing it? Experiences include: from the case about the fuel tax also shows that the government did not have that competence. It may seem that the government’s charging policy is like the limb: it is revealed and cracks when it comes into daylight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e370	The President must be reminded that all additional questions should be related to the main question. It was quite obvious that this supplementary question was not close to it. It must be up to the Prime Minister to assess to what extent he will answer something that might be perceived as a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e374	I'd like to answer, I do. We haven't forgotten Norwegian laws. For example: the company tax, spent a great deal of time on it both by government and by size and carried out thorough assessments, and considered that it was within the provisions of the Basic Law on retroactive effect. We have a system here in Norway where this kind of decision can be tested for the Supreme Court. It has happened before, and it happened in this case. The Supreme Court had a different assessment with a narrow majority, but that's the way it is, and we've also seen that on previous occasions. What I notice is that the right used all of this money we got from the shipping tax in their budgets. So it's like one day you criticize us for this tax, and then the other day you spend this money with great joy, so there's more people who might have forgotten something about the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e383	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e386	Climate 2020 has been submitted. It is said that it is important to also take national action, both in order to increase the international impact of Norway and also in order to transform Norwegian business into a green future. The climate partners have repeatedly asked for a meeting with the Prime Minister, especially after the implementation of the biodiesel levy that we perceived as a breach of the climate agreement. As for the follow-up to the pension agreement, we think it's going really well with the Government. We've often had meetings, and we feel like we're in a good process of implementing the deal. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister feel committed to the climate agreement with the settlement partners here in Stortinget, which also says that national cuts must be implemented if we are to be able to achieve goals? My second question is: Is the Prime Minister interested in strengthening the climate agreement and looking at the recordings that have been made in the Climate Action 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e397	Climate problems are so serious and so extensive that both cuts are necessary in Norway, reductions in emissions in Norway, and Norway also contributes to significant reductions in other countries. There's no contradiction between these, both are important. We have presented a wide range of measures to help limit emissions in Norway: doubling rail investment, significant investment in public transport, substantial increase in the contribution to new renewable energy and energy saving, new building regulations to reduce energy use in buildings, significant increase in research into environmentally friendly technologies, climate-friendly technologies, etc. There is a lot to do in Norway, and we will do even more, and that is why we ordered a climate cure, just to get a menu of different possible new measures. In addition, we're making a significant effort out there, and that's what results in the greatest reductions. What we do on rainforests may have led to many times as many reductions as we have achieved in Norway, and what we do through the European quota market is also significant. Only the introduction of the European quota system in Norway contributes to reductions of 7 million tonnes — seven times the emissions from, for example. The power plant in Mongstad – so I am a strong supporter of both measures at home and outside. Firstly, the advantage of out-of-office measures is that we get greater reductions per year. Secondly, we contribute to building confidence in developing countries, so that they will participate in an agreement – and then we can get really big emission reductions, we get development in developing countries, we get developing countries with, and we get big cuts – so I think there is no contradiction between these two things. We're going to present a big message based on Climate Change, and then we're going to see if there's any basis for reconciling climate policy among the parties on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e410	I fully share the Prime Minister's view that doing things internationally is also important. There, the prime minister will be happy about the climate agreement to allow him to do so much internationally. The rain forest funds and many of the other measures taken abroad were not included in the Government's climate communication proposal, they came from the contract partners here at Stortinget. So that you can travel around and be a stork and buy rainforest, comes on the basis that we pushed it through the climate agreement. So to the question. We are now exposed to the climate communication, which I also believe is a breach of the climate agreement. The Prime Minister actively stopped the Minister for the Environment in the election campaign when he wanted to expand and strengthen the climate agreement before the Copenhagen meeting. Is it the Prime Minister who has made sure that this message has been postponed as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e417	Firstly, I do not think it was easy to understand what the opposition really meant if it thought that a new climate settlement would be made before the Copenhagen meeting. Firstly, because we have a climate settlement, which also extended beyond the Copenhagen meeting, and secondly, I believe that in order to make a proper deal with a new, large and broad package of measures, there had to be a completely different decision-making basis – we had ordered a climate cure just to make it. Then it would be backwards if we before we had a climate cure, made a deal about what we were going to do with a climate cure. I believe that the order there was such that it was quite obvious that we could not make anything wide, new deal until we had completed the investigation we agreed on, namely to get a climate cure and that menu on the table. When it comes to pressing forward: Well, I have been a follower of and the Government has been a supporter of significant measures out there for many years. It is very good that there is a broad connection to it in Stortinget. The point of action is that the main problem now is that the large emissions countries of developing countries will not be included. Outdoor activities can make it more likely that they will be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e424	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e427	In the Climate Action Survey, biofuels are being promoted as an important measure to achieve the emissions targets in the climate agreement. When Stortinget dealt with the state budget for 2010, the Prime Minister was the hot defender of the biodiesel tax. The Prime Minister argued that biodiesel should be subject to a tax because biodiesel in many cases also contributes to CO2 emissions. It also does natural gas. The 2003 budget introduced a CO2 tax on natural gas. Now the government has chosen not to introduce this fee with a reason that I think many houses have. So the government taxes important climate measures and at the same time ensures that it is free of charge for others to pollute. Does the Prime Minister understand that many can be confused by this illogical approach to climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e440	Firstly, it is quite right that the questioner says, namely that biofuels also lead to climate emissions. What we hope for is that it leads to a little less climate emissions than for example. oil. Biofuels have zero CO2 tax, so it is zero CO2 tax even if it is not zero emissions from biofuels. So it is right that we wanted to introduce a CO2 tax on gas, even if gas emits less than oil and coal. The model we presented is that ESA doesn't approve, and now we're looking at whether it's possible to introduce other models. The point is that on biofuels there shall be zero charge, on gas there shall be no zero charge. We're just looking for the right way to do it. The discussion about the bio tax was not about CO2 but it was about the general fuel tax. I still believe that it is not environmentally friendly to make it NOK 3.50 cheaper to drive heavy transport. It contributes to increased transport, increased emissions and more pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e461	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e464	The logic of the Prime Minister hangs when defending the tax on biodiesel, but fails to say that bioethanol has a full tax exemption, including the petrol share, with this policy. There is simply a logical flaw in the government's policy. On the other hand, what I want to talk about and ask the Prime Minister about is climate change, which shows that cutting CO2 emissions in Norway in the short term is both more expensive and more difficult than one thought when the climate agreement was concluded. According to Klimakur, one can assume that approx. In the short term, 5 million tonnes cut in Norway will be the sensible use of money and will provide a climate impact. However, reaching the 15-17 million tonnes target set by the climate agreement would be irresponsible use of the money in the last million tonnes. Then the question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister determined by the fact that two thirds of the cuts are to be made in Norway until 2020, or will the Prime Minister be more pragmatic and sensible in the use of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e477	The climate agreement is solid, so that's what we're thinking about. Then we've got a comprehensive investigation, as part of the climate agreement, of how we can move on. Now we're going to go through all the proposals and all the measures and evaluate them and decide on them. We're going to do that in a thorough and proper way, and then there's a big message for Stortinget. I think it is quite obvious that many measures in Norway will be more expensive than measures in other countries. I guess that really applies to most people. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we do things at home, partly because I think we need to show that we are going in the right direction in our own country, partly because I think it can contribute to the development of technology and partly because some of the measures will come simply because they are competitive, for example. as a result of the European quota system, which also contributes to reductions in Norway. So I think we have to live with that there will be cost differences between out and at home, and that's why we're going to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e486	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e489	I am pleased that the Prime Minister believes that climate change is serious, in fact so serious that the Government has decided to postpone the climate communication for one year. Then it must be really serious. One might wonder if it would really be possible to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement if we did not get concrete action in place before 2012 or 2013, but that is not what I am going to ask him about. The Prime Minister is well aware that climate change argues that one of the most effective measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions is the use of biofuels – 2 million tonnes of CO2. So then the question to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister think that the Government has made a wise decision on the introduction of the biodiesel car diesel tax last autumn, and will he take the initiative of a comprehensive tax audit with a view to promoting the increased use of environmentally friendly fuels already in the context of the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e501	Firstly, it is right that the climate communication should come in 2011, and not in 2010. This is simply because the agreement we thought would be there as a basis for the whole notification, the Copenhagen agreement, was not the agreement we thought. That's why it's important that we try to get an agreement in Mexico, that's the basis for what we're going to do in Norway. It is not true that nothing is happening; there are many measures that we have implemented, implemented and followed up in the budgets. So in the case of biofuels, we've removed the CO2 tax, and we've increased the inclusion order based on the principle that there's a polluter who pays. I believe that in environmental policy it is important to be a little principleal. I think it is wrong to make things considerably cheaper with road transport, it increases the total amount of transport. Because it's not zero emissions, it also means that total emissions are increasing with that kind of policy. I do not therefore agree that it is environmentally friendly to have lower general transport charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e511	To clear up a little bit of an answer that the Prime Minister gave to Trine Skei Grande, so it was Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim who challenged the Left and Christian People's Party in the election campaign to join in strengthening the climate agreement. So this initiative did not come from us, but from the Government itself. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear in the answer to Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen, saying that two thirds of the cuts are going to happen at home, as stated in the climate agreement. I am also very pleased with what the Prime Minister says about the climate problem being so serious that we have to do things both at home and outside, that there is no contradiction here. Helga Pedersen writes in a chronicle of the Nations December 22, 2009: ‘Do you really think that we have time to prioritise inefficient measures here at home rather than effective measures in other countries?’ Then I realize that the Prime Minister disagrees with such a statement as his Vice-Chairman makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e523	I am absolutely sure that Helga Pedersen and I fully agree with these questions – that we should do things both at home and outside. It is in the nature of the matter that many of the measures we take at home are more expensive than those we can do outside. It's a little dependent on what you mean by "out", for "out" is so much. It is both Brazil and Germany, Romania and other EU countries. In the case of actions in the EU, they cost over 100 kroner. It is clear that Norway is meeting its climate objectives. In principle, we can only buy climate allowances in the EU, burn and destroy them, and then the total emissions go down for 100 kroner. It is an effective way to reduce emissions. When there are fewer emissions permits, there will be less emissions. The EU system is a closed system, with each allowance we take out of the system leading to reduced emissions. Nevertheless, we are implementing measures in Norway that cost more than DKK 100, partly because we have an independent target of reducing our own emissions, and partly because we believe that the quota price will gradually increase, and that it is therefore rational to implement the kind of expensive measures in Norway. Helga Pedersen and I are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e528	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e531	Then it was my turn. It is nice to see the Prime Minister come to meet the Storting in the spontaneous questioning again, especially at a time when it might indicate that he should spend more time ensuring quality special curvatures from his own ministers. We are living at a time when there are major challenges in a number of sectors of Norwegian business, in particular with regard to export-oriented activities and small and medium-sized enterprises. Many of these actors feel that if the Government had taken such an initiative, a commercial heating room with concrete measures for improved framework conditions would have been a loving invitation. Minister of Industry Trond Giske has rolled out the red runner for a relatively fabled collection of people and invited them into the red-green business heat. It seems that this heating room is of relatively narrow size, perhaps except in the case of financial muscles, if you look at the composition of the sample. In addition, one of the places is already occupied by a small frozen Kjell Inge Smoke, who needs all the heat he can get after the then Minister of Economic Affairs Sylvia Brustad's winter storm in 2009. I think that the business life of the future had stood in a much larger heating room with a much wider selection compared to representation. That being said, the biggest problem with this selection is that Minister of Industry Trond Giske, after red runners and networking, invited the Crown Prince to participate in the selection. This puts the King's House and His Majesty The Crown Prince in a very difficult situation. The royal house must be a royal house for the whole population. I have registered that most people who have expressed their opinion on this, including from the Government, have been negative to the appointment. Now the Crown Prince has withdrawn. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Is the Prime Minister comfortable putting one of his ministers in a difficult situation? Would he have preferred that Trond Giske had not appointed the Crown Prince to sit in the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e544	For the sake of order, the President must make it clear that the Crown Prince is not majesty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e547	First of all, I just want to say in general that I think it is important that the government has dialogue and meets people from very different environments and communities. It's part of the big process that's part of designing, developing knowledge and reaping experience that makes it possible to develop policies. The fact that government members, state councils, organize more or less formal, more or less permanent, groups, meeting places, I believe is a good tradition that many government councils and many governments have gone on. When it comes to His Royal Highness The Crown Prince's participation in this group, I believe the solution that has now been found is a good solution. I am pleased that this matter has now been clarified, as it has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e554	It may seem as if the Council of State Gieske has held some sort of home alone-party in the Government. It could have been at home alone-partying elsewhere too, what do I know. You can also ask yourself who has participated when you see how the sample was composed. What I do wonder, however, is how such a solo game from Giske is not captured by the Government as a college. I have a great deal of understanding that the Prime Minister in a busy everyday life cannot personally guarantee everything Trond Giske and others had to think about. But shouldn't this be a task for the co-ordination minister, the superminister, the saga-nomist Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, as well as his work in managing the government's car system? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e560	After all, the Council of State of Giske has itself stressed that this is his decision. I also record that there is now a clarification that the Crown Prince, in consultation with the Council of State, has found that the Crown Prince should not be in this group. That's a solution I think is wise and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e565	There will be two follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e568	It is at least nice to note that the after-school clock is present, and that can be good in this case. It's a statement that I find reason to ask the Prime Minister to answer. In one of the newscasts last night, we got the impression in an interview with Minister of Industry Trond Giste that the Prime Minister was consulted in January. It appeared in that news item. My question to the Prime Minister in this regard is whether the Prime Minister was informed that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade would bring Crown Prince Haakon, His Royal Highness, into this selection. If that is the case, it puts this matter in a new light. My question to the Prime Minister is: Was the Prime Minister informed in January, as it appeared in the news last night?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e577	As I answered the first question, and as Minister of Industry Trond Giske himself has stressed on several occasions, this is his decision. So the decision has now been made not to participate in this group. It is a decision that the Crown Prize and the Minister of Industry have reached in consultation, and they agree on it. As I say, I mean it's a right decision, a wise decision. As far as handling in the government is concerned, we have a long tradition from many governments that the internal proceedings in the government are not being explained, especially not from the Parliament's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e584	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e587	I understand that the answer to all the questions in this case is that the decision that has been made is wise and good. But I think that this constitutional mix is also a matter for the Prime Minister, because it had to be clear from the very beginning that this was politics. 14 days ago, the Prime Minister presented the project Cooperation for work as a very political project. The Minister of Economic Affairs has said about the appointment of the Crown Prince that this was not a policy. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister do something, so that the Minister of Industry understands that cooperation for work is a political project, and so that in the future we can avoid this kind of very unfortunate mix of roles?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e594	It's very important that we don't make uncertainties about roles. I believe that the discussion and the doubt that arose are the reasons both for the Minister of Industry and for the Crown Prince for the decision that the Crown Prince does not participate. Then you can certainly have different opinions, but the crucial thing is that they wanted to eliminate uncertainty and doubt. This which was meant to be a positive thing, was perceived as negative, and therefore it is a right and wise decision they have made. In general, I think it is good that we have a royal house that is active, that promotes Norwegian business, and that, not least to other countries, on trips and meetings and conferences, is involved in promoting Norwegian business, but it is important that it does not take place in a way that creates uncertainty about roles, constitutional conditions. Therefore, there is part of the reason why the Crown Prince does not participate in this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e601	Then we go to the last main question. For the sake of time use, very few, if any, follow-up questions will be given to the main question – from the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e604	Thank you, President. The biggest and most important election ceremony given by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in the last year's election campaign was that 100 billion more were to be invested on the road and track. This promise was well received, although most would agree with the Right that the need is even greater. Better roads are needed to enable businesses to enter the market with their products. There is a need for more public transport in the interests of the environment and accessibility, and safer roads are needed for the sake of excessive traffic damage. Just after the election, the Prime Minister of the Business Today wrote that the state has enough money, the important thing is the willingness to prioritize the road and the track. It's in stark contrast to what VG could tell on Sunday. A central anonymous labour party source says there: ‘It is quite unimaginable that the plan can be fully fulfilled.’ It is enough that many voters are left with the question: Were we deceived last year by the promise of the Workers’ Party, SV and the Center Party? Or is it that one can no longer make the difficult choices that the Prime Minister pointed out in today's Business, namely that it is a matter of prioritising? But it doesn't stop there, because an anonymous government council in the red-green government, a government council in Stoltenberg's government, says to VG: "Everyone must cut, including transportation. There's a lot of money there." Then my question to the Prime Minister is, is it so that the promise given to the voters did not have full support in the red-green government? Or is it that the Prime Minister has announced that it will also be cut in transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e615	The government has not had its first budgetary conference. Nobody today can say exactly what the 2011 budget is going to look like, simply because we haven't started working on the 2011 budget. What I can say is that they plan, the goals the government has drawn up, among other things. in the Soria Moria Declaration, in the National Transport Plan and elsewhere, stands by. This means that the national transport plan is on track. This means that the plan we have in the context of the care package, the escalation of care for the elderly in the municipalities, the cultural promise and the defence plan are on track. There are many other plans at hand. It also does the goal and plan to return to a use of the oil money corresponding to 4 pst. by the Pension Fund. So we have a lot of goals, lots of plans. In individual budgets, we want to clarify how far we are going in terms of follow-up. In terms of the national transport plan, there's a plan where we've really shown that we're doing what we said we should do. The previous government presented a very small ambitious transport plan. It was much less than what this government has provided. They couldn't even fulfill that plan. So when it comes to breaking plans, Right has long experience. We presented a significantly more ambitious transport plan, and we have followed it. This government has implemented the previous transport plan and presented a new and even more ambitious transport plan. Already in 2010 we took a significant leap forward to increase the appropriations both on the road and on the road, in line with what we promised in the transport plan. So our plans are on track. In individual budgets, we will explain in detail how far we are going to meet them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e624	This is probably the closest one to come a ‘good day, man – axe shaft’ response. We'd like to argue about the past, even though I think it's a little pointless. I think everyone sees that many governments of different colors have not done enough. But what stands out is that the Bondevik government – the government in which the Right sat – built several kilometers more road than the Stoltenberg government did in the last period. It was because we managed to get more out of the money. I agree that we must come back to the rule of action. But the rule of action is not just about how much money you are going to spend on the Pension Fund, it's also about how to spend the money. What Stoltenberg agreed with Right and other parties when the rule of action was introduced was that the oil money was to be used to invest for the future – in knowledge, in research, in transport and in tax relief, among others. the holdings. Does the Prime Minister insist on what was the intention of the rule of action, namely that investment should be prioritised for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e634	Yes, and that is why this government has significantly increased investment in transport. There's a lot left. There are many ways that are not good enough. There is a lot of railway that is not built. But this does not prevent us from doubling rail investment and increasing road investment by billions of dollars. So we've followed up our plan. The previous government granted less than it promised and failed to follow up its plan. Then I say that we already in the 2010 budget have had a significant escalation, in line with the national transport plan, in terms of transport. Our plans are on track. Then, in the individual budgets, we're going to specify how far we're going to realize them. It concerns all the plans and all the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e641	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e644	The previous government had no common national transport plan. However, it had the Sem statement, and it was fulfilled. Then I have to remind the Prime Minister that the government is already NOK 2.3 billion after the NTP he stood stunned by. In such a reality – where trains are due to lack of maintenance and new investment, where we are constantly receiving new reports that roads are getting worse – we now feel that the Stoltenberg government is questioning this and is postponing the necessary measures that could have given us safer roads and better progress on the road, which, of course, are also growth-promoting measures that should be taken at times like ours. Just under a year ago, the Prime Minister stated that: «Now we have set new ambitious targets for the next ten-year period: an extra 100 billion kroner for transportation. Only there is good enough reason why voters should give our majority government four new years!’ Six months later, he says the following: ‘The strength of the working party is not merely to be proposed. The strength of the Workers' Party is that we also implement." Will the Prime Minister confirm that he stands by these promises to his constituents?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e663	Firstly, it is not right that we are lagging behind in terms of the national transport plan. We've increased the appropriations. It's not like we're going up to a level that's 100 billion dollars a year. We have never said that, nor in the transport plan, but we have started the escalation. Firstly, we carried out an escalation in the previous period. Now we have increased the appropriations beyond that, precisely because we see the need for investment both in the way and in the way, and that is significantly more than what the previous government did. So in terms of the plans, in the Soria Moria statement, we have a lot of plans. We showed in the last period that we were very good at following up those goals and plans, and we're working on that in every budget. We've created one budget and we're in the right place. So it's going to be in the individual budgets that we specify and present how far we're going to go in each year. The government has not started work on the 2011 budget. That's why no one, either anonymous or anyone else, can say anything about how that budget is going to be – me neither.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e674	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e677	I'm glad you show commitment to transportation, especially for road and rail. The challenge is in many ways not to follow up the NTP that the Government has actually adopted, which is now NOK 2.3 billion if you were to phase in what is the annual appropriations. I have now been on the Transport Committee for four and a half years. I have traveled a lot around the country, and I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to put the driver in the back of the car and himself in the front, so to speak, to drive on the Norwegian road network, to experience what it actually is like to drive on Norwegian roads. Then I want to challenge the Council of States, clearly and clearly, without him just pointing out that one is coming back into the budget. In fact, it is a prerequisite in the national transport plan that money should be allocated to the roads and that it should be provided when the different projects start up. They are already 2 billion kroner behind them, and there are projects that are not getting started, which should have been started already in 2010. That's why I want to challenge the Prime Minister: should you follow up on NTP, as NTP has been adopted, or should you continue to break promises by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e686	I think it's a fundamental misunderstanding here. National transport plan does not suggest that we take everything in one jaf. National transport plan is a plan for gradual escalation. We showed this in the last period that we were able to do, and we implemented the national transport plan. Then we have presented a new national transport plan that is still above it, totaling NOK 100 billion. We have started the escalation – just as we promised. There is a significant escalation both by rail and by road in 2010. So it's not just that we're talking about this in future budgets. We've actually done it. Then I'm perfectly aware that even though we've doubled railway investments, we need a lot more money for the railways. I am fully aware that although we now have significantly greater appropriations for both operations and investment in the way we have done before, we still lack a lot of money for these areas. That's one of the reasons why this government says it's much more important to spend money in the community, like that. rail and road, like promising new billions of tax credits – because that's what it's basically about: what we're going to spend our total resources on. So we're for the railway, we're for the road. And we're doing that in practice, we've increased the appropriations for both of them each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e701	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e707	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkewold to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion, who is directly responsible. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Bård Hoksrud, respectively, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, are relocated and answered to question 22, i.e. at the request of the Council of State. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 8, from the representative, Mr T. Nesvik, to the Minister for Food and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, this question is moved and answered before question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is raised by the representative of Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e727	My question is: ‘We are now experiencing a public debate on freedom of expression, tolerance and freedom of belief which is particularly linked to Islam. Some have contributed to increasing the level of conflict by drawing up and highlighting some of the most far-reaching attitudes we find in our multicultural society. Many fear that increased levels of conflict will lead to alienation and polarisation. How will the Prime Minister contribute to the strengthening of the community and the values common to Muslim and Norwegian culture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e736	That is an important question asked by the representative of the Skei Grande. A more diverse population contributes to changing Norwegian society. Then it's natural that there are breaks and debates. We have to go into these debates with mutual respect, and I am concerned with three perspectives in the debate. First of all, we all have a responsibility not to create scary images or black paints. The fact that Norway has become more multicultural is a positive contribution to our community. Minorities contribute to the labour force that strengthens the Norwegian economy and strengthens Norwegian welfare. Secondly, integration in Norway is better than in many other countries. Unemployment among immigrants is lower than in most of our neighbouring countries. Many learn Norwegian. It goes in the right direction, even if a lot is done. The most important thing we can do is make sure that people who are new in the country learn Norwegian and get a job. Here we do a lot. We have to do even more. Thirdly, we have to have great tolerance for differences, but zero tolerance for actions that violate human rights or violate Norwegian laws. We're going to tolerate statements that we don't like. It's part of freedom of expression in a free society. Extreme attitudes must be combated by words, not by prohibition. However, the extreme statements must not dominate the debate on multicultural Norway, and there is, of course, a limit to which opinions we should accept. This limit has been drawn up by the Stortinget through the penal code. At the same time, I am concerned that those who stand for extreme attitudes do not represent the vast majority of Muslims in Norway. The debate has shown a diversity in which we still have more votes. I am very pleased that we have got several debaters with Muslim backgrounds who participate in the word change and show breadth and nuances. We are all responsible for the fact that this debate is helping to strengthen the community and common values, as the representative Skei Grande calls for. The Community must contain the whole diversity of its population. I think the most important thing we do is to help those who are new in the country succeed here – in school and in work – and that they experience meeting a society that gives people equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e751	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, and I agree with the main gravity of it. But I think there is a certain lack of understanding of the frustration that very many young people feel. They grow up in a Norwegian society, they feel Norwegian, they speak Norwegian fluently, they do what the big community requires of them. They take an education – but they don't get a job. Some of this is also described in an article in the VG today by Ambreen Pervez. It says: ‘Halvors and other politicians also need to think about creating alienation among Norwegian children when their peaceful religious practices are promoted. It may give some voices, but does not create a long-term good Norway where everyone feels belonging. Integration is not about how you dress or whether you cover your hair – but about what you have inside your head, whether you take education, work and are law-abiding.’ The confrontation that has been taking place in the recent debate is shown, among other things. by the fact that today a proposal for a representative has been tabled to prevent the three ladies, whom I have observed in my part of the city, from taking part in covering clothes. It could have been fixed by taking a phone. Then there is a question of whether we are now holding a debate that very many feel bullying them, putting them outside the community. It is not about integration, nor about Norwegian knowledge, nor about the other things that the Prime Minister has brought forward in the debate. It's about some young people feeling that they don't belong, because the way we discuss integration, the way we stigmatise and make this happen, for example. Some clothes and other things, make you feel like you're not part of society. Some of the frustration we saw during the demonstration in front of the Israeli Embassy was really about many who feel that they are not part of society. My question to the Prime Minister is, how can he help these young people to feel that this is their society as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e765	Both through concrete actions and instruments and through attitudes and values we communicate, we can help everyone to feel like part of the Norwegian community, part of the Norwegian community. In that debate I am concerned that we should not paint black and not paint beauty. I think that if we manage to convey shades, it'll also be easier to create a reality that people recognize. I'm e.g. agree that there is clearly discrimination in Norwegian working life, that people with a migrant background often have more problems getting a job than those who do not have a migrant background. I agree. At the same time, it is important not to blackmail it, because we are in the lucky situation in Norway that we have lower unemployment than in most other countries, and that we have more immigrant backgrounds in jobs than very many other countries. And an important reason to be concerned with keeping the general unemployment low is that then it's also much easier to keep the unemployment among immigrants low. So work is important for us to succeed in integration. Then I agree that it is of course important that we have discussions about clothing, and we have introduced rules in Oslo that limit the possibility of using clothing that covers the face, because it can prevent the teaching. But sometimes you get the impression that it's more important to discuss what Muslim girls have on their heads than what they have inside their heads. The point is that there are now very many Muslim girls taking great education, who get some of the best exams and grades, and who are now going to contribute at the top level in terms of very many different subjects and educational courses in Norway. That combination, to realize that there is a problem with high school dropout among many with Muslim backgrounds or immigrant backgrounds, and at the same time to see that we have very many capable people in the same population, it's the shades -- that diversity -- that I think is an important part of our debate on integration, and that makes it easier to integrate if we don't have any beauties or black paints. School is another key area. I'm concerned that we're going to have a good public common school. It's an important integration arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e779	I thank you for that answer. I want to raise the last aspect, which is the religious aspect. Today, there are scary images of what religions stand for in many citizens of Norway. We had a discussion about this last caricature struggle in Denmark, when Left took up here in the Stortinget to Church Minister Trond Giske, at that time, the question of whether we should have received a religious message to the Stortinget to discuss religious politics in society. It was also a bit influenced by the fact that the government had gone on a few blinds in relation to different value issues. Now we see that even though 40 pst. by immigrants who come to Norway are Christians, however, there are major confrontations between religions. We have a Church of State in Norway – it disagrees with the Left – but nevertheless we should have a religious policy, and not just a church policy that the Norwegian bigotry has often adopted. My challenge to the Prime Minister is that perhaps the Norwegian society has now come into a phase in which we should have received a religious message to the Great Britain and discussed the place of religion, the framework of religion, what we are tolerating, what we are not tolerating – what position the different religious communities should have in relation to public support, how we can contribute to a good religious debate in society that does not stigmatise, but which distinguishes the extreme attitudes from those that are religious, and which should also lead to some information in Norway about what the different religions stand for, and what the meeting between them actually creates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e786	The time frame for the second round of questions is one minute. The President has not been quite aware of that, so the Prime Minister also gets two minutes since Trine Skei Grande got two minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e789	I always deal with the President's clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e794	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, I believe that religion is important, and we have had important processes and debates on it in the previous period, which we are also going to continue in this process of enlargement. An important part of this is the settlement of the Church of State — a new church system. There are many reasons why it's a right and a good deal of compromise, but one reason is that it's just creating looser ties between the state and the Norwegian Church, and I think it's also a contribution to creating a more inclusive society, a new society where we have more of different religious backgrounds. That, I believe, is the credit of the Storting and the Government, that after many attempts, many years of debate, many selection settings this time actually managed to arrive at a settlement like the Great Government, and that during this period we can make the final decision and implement the Church Agreement as intended. So I'm going to be careful to promise things, or say things, I don't have any points of view for, but I think – I'd like to investigate it afterwards – that in the Soria Moria Declaration we say something about presenting our own case of religion and outlook. Anyway, at least I'm going to go in and carefully evaluate it, because in Soria Moria we've just seen the significance of getting a broad and comprehensive review. That is why we have opened up a case for Stortinget, so that we get the broad and proper debate that the representative Skei Grande is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e807	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: «Haugesund Toppiedrettsgymnas, HTG, offers students specialisation in combination with top sport. The school has new buildings and has 206 top-school students within 12 yards. The school has been in operation since 1997, and has been informed that the school cannot apply for top-level education because the department has placed a ceiling of 810 student places in selected existing schools. The HTG wishes to be approved in the scheme by the NIF and considers themselves qualified. Will the Council of State contribute to the equal treatment of HTG with similar schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e816	The State budget provides grants to private upper secondary education institutions on a cap. Item 228, 79, top-notch. The aim of the scheme is to contribute to the better functioning of the schools covered by the scheme so as to enable top-ranking athletes to combine training with secondary education. Until 2010, in line with a 1999 Stortinget budget decision, top-level sport grants were granted to two named schools – Wang and NTG. It was then set a ceiling of 810 students who could trigger the top sport grant. However, there have been significant changes to this effect since then. From 2010 onwards, the system of top-level sport grants has been implemented. No longer is a grant granted per. Students, but per year school. It is therefore no longer relevant with a ceiling on the number of pupils who trigger top-level sport grants. The scheme applies to the schools approved under the Private School Act and offers specifically organised secondary education in combination with top-level sport, which are additionally recognised as top-level sports gymnasium by the Norwegian Sports Association. If several schools approved under the Private School Act and offering specifically organised secondary education in combination with top-notch education are approved by the Norwegian Sports Association as upper secondary education, these schools will initially not be covered by the cap scheme. Item 228, 79, which is a budget heading. Any inclusion of new schools in the scheme must be dealt with in accordance with the ordinary budgetary procedures. At the same time as the scheme was put into the 2010 budget, the entry framework was increased by 10 million. kr. Haugesund Toppidrettsgymnas is approved under the Private School Act, but is not recognised as toppidrettsgymmas under the Norwegian Sports Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e831	Thank you very much for your answer. Haugesund Toppiedrettsgymnas lives in a beautiful new building that they have paid for themselves, on a municipal plot right at Haugesund Sports Park, which is now becoming a complete sports park – perhaps Norway's most complete sports area. Haugesund Toppidrettsgymnas is an ordinary high school with top sport, in a region where FK Haugesund plays elite football and Haugaland Handball Club plays elite handball. We also have many talents in Sunnhordland, which is part of the entire recording circuit of the school. I am pleased that the Council of State says that new schools will initially not be able to receive grants. This means that it is a challenge for the Council of State to open up that if the school is approved by the Sports Association, which of course has strict criteria for becoming so, it will be possible to receive this grant for 2011. What I think is an extra reason for this is that the Haugesund Toppidrettsgymnas, after the roof was put in the number of schools, not on students – whether it was a student or a school roof – has been running all along, since 1997. In other words, it means that there is a school that is in a special position. Then you have seen that even though it has not been allowed to set up schools after these ceilings came, you have nevertheless approved a branching. It means, in my opinion, that there is an unfair treatment of Haugesund Toppidrettsgymnas, who have chosen not to apply because they were told it. There's something I want to clarify with the Council of State. Can they search through the Sports Association? And if they are accepted, can they be evaluated by the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen in 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e842	There are two things that need to be done to enable Haugesund Toppidrettsgymnas to receive state support. One is that they are approved by the Norwegian Sports Association, and the other is a budgetary matter. So this is not a rule - rule rule. 228 which automatically triggers a grant but a budgetary matter based on the framework adopted by the Storting for this chapter and for this item. That means that if you're approved, you have the opportunity to search. But it's a budgetary matter that, to the seventh and last, will determine whether there are several schools that receive grants after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e847	I was a little satisfied with that answer because you go away from the principle, from the fact that you can't apply, to the fact that it's going to be a budgetary matter. So we're going to have a hope that we're going to put money in the budget. You don't ask for millions of dollars. You might ask for a start to get in, because there's no doubt that the Haugesund Toppiedrettsgymnas, with over 200 students, have room for more. One of the reasons why these schools come in is that it's expensive to do top sports. You need some more advanced equipment, you might need some advanced training methods, and you might need a little less students per. teacher. I'm now getting quite satisfied with the answer. What is obvious is that you have to go to private school today, you have to be approved under the private school law. If you are to receive other grants, you will have to be approved after those grants via the Norwegian Sports Association at the Olympic Summit. It's obvious. What I'm summing up with is that the State Council will open up funds in the budget, because it's a budgetary matter and no longer a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e858	The representative Kambe has a very strong commitment to Haugesund Toppidrettsgymnas. That is very good, but the procedure is like I said: First the approval of the Norwegian Sports Association, and then this is a matter of what kind of appropriations the Stortinge does in terms of this chapter and this post. I think we have to do it in the right order here. We're going to get back to this when we're going to adopt a budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e868	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In Dagbladet on 5 February 2010, former teacher and author Terje Forsberg stated that teachers have to endure being spit on and harassed. This statement has been refuted by the Ministry of Knowledge, and neither has KS, which represents the country’s school owners, objected. Does the Council of State believe that Norwegian teachers are to be treated differently from other professional groups, and has the Council of State considered how the school can set the standard for what is acceptable student-to-teacher relations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e877	Let's have one thing as a starting point, and that's that the Ministry of Knowledge doesn't do well for all the weird things that had to be in the newspapers, even if the matter wasn't commented on, because then I would have got it extremely busy. It's not that if there are any rarities in a newspaper that don't contradict me or anyone else in the Ministry of Knowledge, it's legal. That being said, of course, it is that in the same way as for students, teachers also have a right not to be subjected to harassment in their working situation. In this way, the working situation of teachers is protected by the Working Environment Act and the Labour Inspectorate, in line with other workers. From a student's point of view, it is part of the school's mandate in the purpose paragraph that respect for human dignity should be developed among the students. It's also relevant in the context we're facing here. Teachers should not be concerned about being harassed by students and need to know how to deal with pupils who are harassing. Nevertheless, it is important that teachers are aware that for each individual student there may of course be underlying causes for obscene behaviour. Good and clear class management contributes to good relationships between pupils and teachers and provides concentration on schoolwork. This also leads to students being taken seriously and showing respect. The value of leadership will be central to the new training of teachers through the new subject of pedagogics and student skills. The course will be mandatory for all students. Schools must have clear rules on acceptable behaviour and must be followed up in a consistent manner. In this respect, it is important that the school’s rules of procedure are well thought out. The rules must be known to the school staff, students and parents. The teacher’s authority in the classroom should be strengthened in order to prevent noise and anxiety from disrupting teaching and to propose that teachers, not only principals, will also be able to expel students from lessons. This is not contrary to the importance it also has for teachers to establish good relations with students. Work on good learning environments, without trouble and negative behaviour, needs to be broadly anchored among teachers, school leaders, students and parents. Here school management has a central role to play. Efforts at good school management are important in this context, and in this context reference is made to the new schoolleader education — the principal education — which is now under construction. In addition, reference is made to the new provision of the Training Act, where the school owners are obliged to draw up an annual quality report on key aspects of school activities, including the learning environment. The report shall be discussed within the Municipal Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e896	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am not responding to everything in the paper either. But the truth is that this is a man who is engaged and actually lectures at several of the country's educational institutions. That is why I thought that this paper in the newspaper differs from a number of other things that stand there. I think it's very important for the country's teachers that they have back coverage, that they have the country's knowledge minister in their backs, to have the necessary authority to meet their students. It's probably like this in many of the country's classrooms that it's not as good as we'd like. In meetings with 25-30 students, who have their own way, it's not always as easy to be a teacher. Parents are enormously important as allies to the school in order to achieve a good learning environment. Does the State Council see any possibility of involving the Parental Committee for Primary School in order to get a better dialogue on how to set clearer driving rules, and highlight what is good conduct in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e907	First of all, I think that the educational institutions that might invite this person to initiate for them do that because they're up and thinking people, not because they accept that kind of behavior. I have full confidence that both teachers' students and teachers' colleges can think for themselves and know what is acceptable and not acceptable. Besides, I'm always a little careful to comment on what's in the papers, before I'm sure that people are quoted correctly, and whether they give a coverage that's in line with what they've meant. We who have some experience from the press themselves know that it can often be a little bit different. With regard to cooperation with parents and the Parental Committee for Primary Schools on this subject, there is an issue that is all the way on the agenda. We have challenges in what is acceptable and not acceptable behavior in school. There are many teachers who have significant challenges every day. They need drag, respect and support from us to set the limits that it is absolutely necessary to put in many contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e916	You shouldn't pay attention to people who have so strange opinions, says the Council of State. But I think that's exactly what you do when you take him into the teacher training institutions. Students are reported to be very concerned about Norwegian classrooms. We know that from student surveys and also from other international studies. Both the students themselves and the teachers are calling for more peace and order. I guess I miss you having a dialogue about combating this threat to a good learning environment in school as much as you do when it comes to bullying. I believe this is also a very important part to ensure that students get maximum learning outcomes. Motivated teachers are important, and then they must also feel that they are taken seriously and have the time and opportunity to do their job. Do the Councils see the need to tighten up rules and guidelines on order and behaviour? Does she see the need to proceed, if necessary, with a view to assessing new sanctions to address the most unacceptable behaviour?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e925	I don't think there are any schools, some teachers, some parents or some students who believe that the kind of expression that it said in the newspaper, or the kind of behavior that is described, is acceptable. The work done in the context of a good learning environment, which is also important for combating bullying, is, of course, about this. What is an acceptable way of dealing with students and between teachers and students? There is something we have a high focus on both in 2010 and 2011. I don't think Norwegian schools need any guidance from me on what is acceptable or not acceptable, to see that this kind of behavior is not acceptable. It worked very well all the way. We put emphasis on it in teacher training, and we put emphasis on it in principal's school. It is very important to support the authority of teachers. The appeal I can make to parents is that they do it even around the dinner table and in all informal contexts when they talk to their children. I think, unfortunately, too many parents are involved in a little negative talk by the teacher, if their children come home and report about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e944	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and the Minister for Inclusion, who is directing it. The question has been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e952	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘After the fire in the Terningmoen military camp in Hedmark County, it turns out that only one of the three buildings that burned had warning systems. This may seem alarming as not only ordinary military equipment is stored in similar buildings, but also weapons and ammunition. What will the Council of State do to ensure the highest possible level of construction, including: against fire?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e961	The defence is very concerned with securing its properties, not least against fire and burglary. The defence sector is governed by public fire safety requirements as laid down in the Law on Planning and Building and in the Act on Fire and Explosive Protection and related regulations. In the case of specific fire objects, the Fire Prevention Regulation lays down requirements for securing in the form of fire alarm systems. Specific fire objects include, inter alia: buildings which, by their activity or nature, in the event of a fire may constitute a risk of loss of many lives or large values, or have major social consequences. Examples of buildings requiring warning facilities are schools over a certain size, meeting rooms and accommodation. Defence structures are responsible for ensuring the technical fire safety of defence sector buildings and installations in accordance with public requirements. Defence structures ensure the building mass fire-technically according to the legislation and implement measures where necessary, such as: as a result of changed uses or changes in public requirements. The defence sector has had few fires in recent years. Buildings where weapons and ammunition are stored are specially secured, primarily against burglary. Defence constructions indicate that there were no specific requirements for fire alarm systems in the three warehouses that burned on the Terningmoen. The buildings were not defined as special fire objects. Weapons and ammunition were stored in a separate room in one of the buildings. This room was especially secured against burglary. I believe that the public requirements for fire safety are sufficient also for the defence sector. The storage of weapons and ammunition is subject to specific rules, and the defence is particularly concerned with preventing this type of material from being diverted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e972	I would like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good answer. But I'm not quite satisfied with the answer anyway, because it kind of doesn't say anything about what's going on in the future. It is clear that this fire had not come now, nor had this question been raised, nor had it been found that only one of these three buildings was fireproof. That buildings are safe from burglary is good and good, but sometimes other unforeseen things can happen – like in this case a fire. The fact that you do not have a security system to warn you that it is now burning, I find it alarming, especially when there are weapons and ammunition in that building. Although the weapons and ammunition were stored in a special room, it burned. That's what I find very regrettable. So I want the defense to go by itself and look over all the types of construction you have, and whether there's a better way to secure this than what you're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e979	There must be no doubt that the defence is very concerned about securing its construction, not least the stockpiles of weapons and ammunition, and that it was also properly stored here. It is therefore also gratifying to note that there have been few fires in the defense lately. Much has been invested in securing stocks, not least of weapons and ammunition, and there is also a major programme for this in the Defence. This framework of measures covers a total of 90 million. kr and shall run towards the end of 2012. As I said, it is the power of the Defense to secure not least weapons and ammunition in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e986	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to say that with less money for the Defense, fewer soldiers in the Defense and fewer orders, it is perhaps an extra great responsibility both for the Council of State and for others who are involved in this matter, to secure construction. I've been a professional officer for 15 years. I remember that one of the problems I had as an officer at the time was driving around construction and checking that there was neither burglary nor anything else there. But as I said, with less money for the defense, fewer soldiers and fewer officers, this looks a little more alarming than it did before. It must be the purpose of the defense to buy the necessary warning systems, whether you buy a service physically if you cannot do this yourself, or you buy warning systems that warn of both burglaries, which the government council talks about, and about fire or other damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e997	This is, as I mentioned, very important for the Defence, and it is taken seriously both in the Defence and Defence Buildings, which have the special responsibility of securing buildings. There's something of the background that we both have more investment in securing buildings, and that we can also detect a happy low level in the number of fires. If we look at the situation — not least back in the 1990s — there was an invasion of stocks, with which something had to be done. There is also some background to the fact that we are still in the investment programme in order to ensure the best possible use of the buildings, and as I mentioned now, in a plan with a framework of measures of about Ninety million. kr that will run forward towards the end of 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1004	Questions 6 and 7 will be answered later, after question 22. Question 8 will also be answered later, before question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1010	The question is: ‘The government is chasing the drivers. Climate policy and transport policy mean that car transport, car use and motorists in the largest cities are subject to more tax, more tax and transport restrictions. At the same time, the Government increases the volume of toll financing and extends the use of toll revenue to areas other than road construction to replace State financing of infrastructure and state procurement of transport services. How will the Government ensure the financing of the necessary transport system in the metropolitan areas?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1019	The government's emphasis is on a differentiated use of instruments between cities and countries. In the cities and in the commuting area around the country, the government is investing in increasing collective ownership through good collective solutions, while in the better way, good ferrying and racial security are important areas of activity in the districts. The challenges in cities are complex, and the measures taken in cities must therefore take account of them. The government will include: make it attractive to use environmentally friendly modes of transport and stimulate measures to reduce the use of passenger cars. At the same time, the Government will strengthen efforts on the road and rail core network in cities to increase the emergence and reduce delays in the rush time for business and public transport. The state will spend considerable resources on road and rail investment in metropolitan areas over the years to come. In all four major urban areas, the development of the transport system is financed by the state, municipalities or municipalities and by road users through tolls. Toll use is always based on local initiatives. In Oslo and Akershus, the State has cooperated with Oslo and Akershus to meet the challenges of the metropolitan region through Oslopackak 3. Funding for Oslopackakt 3 mainly takes place through tolls, but significant funds have also been earmarked for the railway and national road network from the state and funds from the municipalities and municipalities for public transport and the development of the regional road network. The progress batch has supported this configuration locally. The National Roads Action Programme and for Oslopackakt3 show that it has been committed to spending approximately NOK 2.3 billion in State resources on the national road network in the period 2010–2013. During the same period, proposals have been made in the action programme to the Railway Agency for State-owned railway investments in the Oslopacket 3 area of approximately SEK 7.1 billion. In Bergen, the Bergen programme, which covers urban and regional roads, is being continued and will be financed mainly by tolls and county funds following the administrative reform. In the mountainous region, during the ten-year period, the country makes provision for national road investments on E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal and Sotra connection and railway investments on Ulriken and Arna. In Trondheim, a large part of the funding of the transport system will take place through tolls in the Trondheim Environmental Package, but with state contributions to national road projects, including actions within the programme areas. In the Stavanger region, funding for the regional transport system will be provided through the North-Jear package 2. Substantial funds are provided by the state to complete a new double track between Stavanger and Sandnes and with national road investments on the E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1032	Thanks for the answer, which contained a lesson you've heard before. Let me repeat and simplify and clarify the problem. When the Government, on the one hand, does its best to mitigate road traffic and, at the same time, to finance more of the roads and public transport with revenues from the cars using the roads: how will the funding go up? I'm glad the council used an example from Bergen. I can use another one. Fewer cars pass the toll stations. In January 2010, traffic is 12.5 pst. lower than January 2008 – in two years, monthly traffic is 12.5 pst. lower. In pure crowns, the January figure represents an income reduction of more than 2.5 million. kr. We also know from other schemes of toll financing that the revenue is failing. What is the government's financial regulation when less traffic generates less revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1041	For example, Bergen: The representative Sortevik will have the opportunity to get involved in it further when we present our proposal for a proposal on the continuation of the Bergen programme. Or I have to say that I'm registering a slightly special use of words here. It is said that the government is chasing the drivers. It is said that my answer is a lesson that the representative Sortevik has ‘heard before’. I think that I have done well for what was the question: ‘How will the government ensure the financing of the necessary transport system in the big cities?’ So there might be a change in statements here. That means we'll take that up in case, but we can't base our calculations on one month.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1050	Thanks for the answer. With all due respect for the Council of State, I still feel that we're a bit away from what's at the heart of the issue, namely that there's increasing toll funding while the Government is doing its best to reduce traffic. Toll financing revenue is necessarily linked to the traffic base that has passed the various bombs and through the various rings. That's what I'm trying to focus on. When you find that traffic-repudiation measures, which the Government is very busy with, have a certain effect, the result is that there will be less revenue. So you can either postpone projects, you can increase the toll cost per. the passage, the extension of the tolling period, or the introduction of increased State resources. There is at least one door for a possible answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1057	The representative, Mr Sortevik, asks a good question when asking for a closer look at the balances to be made. On the one hand, in urban areas there is a need for health, environment and emergence to reduce traffic. It is then right that toll financing can also be reduced. Toll financing: The times the government follows it, it is by local initiative. The answer must be that there is still a split layer, also with changed presets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1067	The question is: ‘The population growth in Akershus is strongly increasing. This leads to large commuter traffic towards Oslo, a day commuter that we want to transfer to public transport for reasons of the environment and accessibility. In the western region there will be frequent train departures when the new double track opens. In order for people to choose to travel by train, easy access parking must be built. How many new entry parking spaces in Asker and Bærum will be completed when the new double track opens in a short time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1076	I share the view that the representative Tende here targets. The population of Akershus is growing, and we must have a collective system that can take care of this growth. In addition, a greater proportion of traffic has to be provided with collective means of transport for environmental and road safety purposes. The development of new double tracks in the Western region is a particularly important measure to get more people to take the train. For many of the travelers, putting the car away at the station will be a great advantage. In Asker and Bærum municipalities, the Railway Agency now has a total of 998 parking spaces. There are also municipal and private places. In the case of Lysaker station, 50 seats shall be worked in the autumn. In addition, the Railway Agency and the Bærum Municipality work with a regulatory plan for an additional 70 sites on the site next to which the Railway Agency also owns. One aims at financing through Oslopackak 2. An installation shall be built for the simultaneous reversion of three trains at Hövik station. The station must be completely rebuilt, and there are plans to refurbish about 100 entrance parking spaces at the station. In addition to this, the Railway Agency is seeking to convert 80 places such as Rome Property under the bus terminal in Sandvika to an entrance parking lot. All in all, this would give 300 new places to commuters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1093	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete often used the Stockholm region as an example of a success area, because they had imposed a cash-time charge of DKK 20 – as opposed to the bombing in the western region, where they pay DKK 40 per year. Pass-by. But we're going to leave it at this point. I was in Stockholm and visited the elected representatives there, and they said that the success in the Stockholm region was due to the fact that all the entrance parking spaces were right before the rush time charge was introduced. My question to the Council of State is, Is this something the Council of State is familiar with?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1102	This is information that I have not had the opportunity to go into at this point in time, but that will be important in the evaluations that are being done locally in the urban areas where they are now discussing restrictions on car traffic. What we already know is that a commitment to the delimitation of car traffic is a good collective offer. Then I've been so busy equipping the cities with different tools that they can choose from locally. I see that there is a good tip about parking spaces, and I want to stress that the railway works have an involvement in this field, as I pointed out in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1107	The background to this question is an overview in the evening that shows that at several of the train stations it is simply not intended for new access parking spaces. Now I hear the Council of State say that 300 new sites are to be built. So there's been a local media survey that in 20 years' time there'll be 200,000 inhabitants in the western region, and then my question is: is the Council satisfied with the 300 places that are now being built? Or will she be a driver for the Railway Station to come up with more money and get more speed in the development of entrance parking spaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1112	I want to be in agreement with the representative's tendency that 300 new places will run out little in 20 years, giving it growth that is now expected. Today, the Railway Agency runs over 998 and then there are municipal and private places. The railway station is responsible for the existence of a large number of parking spaces at the stations. They have surveyed all the stations in Asker and Bærum, and they have identified the need for increased parking capacity. The railway works may own the premises themselves or rent them from others, usually NSB’s subsidiary Rome Property AS. The construction of the sites is usually a spice layer with municipality, county municipality and Vegvesenet. I see that there is reason to have added attention to this field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1120	«Health Nord enters its structural plan to tear down the hospital in Hammerfest and Kirkenes and then build new hospitals. Over many years, there has been a major change in the housing pattern in Finnmark. In such a hospital structure process, where an estimated SEK 2.5 billion is to be invested, it should be natural for Health Nord to carry out an investigation and structural assessment to ensure that the Finnmark population is provided with the best possible health care and that Health Nord is able to operate financially. What will the Council of State do to ensure this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1127	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government considers that today’s decentralised hospital services should be maintained. At the same time, it opens up the possibility for some hospitals to do work tasks other than today, including: as a result of the cooperation reform. I have notified the Stortinget that the national health and care plan will be submitted in 2011. The plan shall be an important instrument for the realisation and further development of national health and care policies and for the concrete implementation of the cooperation reform. The future role of local hospitals will have a natural place in the plan. Furthermore, in the 2010 mission papers of regional health companies, I have pointed out that there is a need to continue the development and conversion of the provision of specialist health services. I am aware that several regional health companies have started such processes in order to develop and convert specialist healthcare. This also applies to Health Nord, which now has proposals for a strategy to further develop local hospital facilities for consultation. Health Nord will then present a case for its board of directors proposing a strategy for future local hospital functions – and the location of decentralised specialist health services. In this context, it is important to stress that specialist health services do not necessarily need to be located in traditional hospital buildings. Alta Municipality has been a good example for many years – through the so-called Alta Model – of how it is possible to provide good specialist health services without doing so in ordinary hospital buildings. Localisation of future services will not only be based on changes in the pattern of residence – which Fredriksen’s representative is concerned about. Ageing composition in the population, technological development, communication and transport will be central. Communication and transport are not least important in a vast state such as Finnmark. Some areas in Finnmark face challenging communication challenges, and alternative transport options are very poor to travel to another health service outside the county — if the situation so requires. This will be the theme of the future strategy for local hospital functions in Finnmark. I have great confidence that the strategic work now being done in Health Nord will be carried out in a way that will ensure the citizens of Finnmark a good health offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1140	I thank you for the answer that I received. It is true that the demography of Finnmark has changed significantly over the past 30 years. We experience deportation on the coast, and we also experience that there are some growing cities. Alta is the city that has been deciduous most in growth, and also has the youngest population composition. It's likely that what's happening today will continue into the future. At the same time, more and more operations are being carried out outside the county, as healthcare is becoming more and more specialised. This suggests that we in Finnmark must put in place emergency preparedness, maternity care and rehabilitation that will provide the largest possible proportion of the population. My question to the Council of State was, what will she do to take care of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1149	It is the regional health business that has responsibility in its region to provide the population with adequate, sound and good health services. I am very concerned that you should also have it in Finnmark. Finnmark was one of the first places I went to as a state council, and I was very impressed by how, despite long distances and a demanding housing structure, one has managed to have a good health offer for the population. So I am absolutely convinced that Health Nord will take into account the changes that have occurred in the Alta region and assess whether there is a need for reinforcements. But I would also like to stress that when we talk about emergency services, it's everything from ambulances or helicopters to the most specialised hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1154	In fact, related to both Hammerfest, Alta and Kirkenes, it is clear to my eyes that there is a great need to put in place an emergency hospital with an emergency facility, a maternity ward and not least rehabilitation. The state council here says that the Health Nord government is going to make this assessment, stands in stark contrast to what her own State Secretary says when he says that the hospital structure in Finnmark is locked. What you're looking for in an investigation is to put in place both knowledge and understanding of the situation. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister here 14 days ago just underlined the need to put in place knowledge and competence to do the most important societal action. Is it the case that we should deal with the Prime Minister's wish, or should we deal with the Secretary of State's wish that the hospital structure be locked?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1161	When we say that the hospital structure in Finnmark is fixed, it is also assumed that there have been speculations about whether we should make changes in Finnmark. I don't think that's the basis. There's a long distance between Hammerfest and Kirkenes, as the representative very well knows. Therefore, there is a need to maintain two local hospitals in Finnmark, although the population is not as large as elsewhere. So it's important that we look at the geography in that context. I'm very busy learning and acquiring knowledge by traveling around. I've done the same in Finnmark. And like I said, Finnmark was the first place I went. But I also trust that Health Nord has a good dialogue with the people of Finnmark and Health Finnmark to see which structure is the best. If it's important to build up functions in Alta, it will be assessed. The situation in Alta will certainly be part of the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1171	I have the pleasure to ask the following questions: ‘Since New Year, many patients have experienced the new travel reimbursement scheme as inaccessible and difficult. Despite the improvement measures announced, this remains a major problem for many. Will the Council of State take immediate action to reduce the waiting time for reimbursement of travel expenses and make the service more accessible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1180	This is a valid question. However, it is the regional health companies that are responsible for travel to and from research and treatment in the municipal and specialist health services. The last part of the administrative task of dealing with reimbursement of travel expenses was transferred from Nav to the regional health establishments from 1 January this year. The basis is now for a comprehensive, equivalent and good management of the provision of specialist healthcare to the population. The transfer of administrative responsibility was planned and prepared in good time before 1 January of this year. Good cooperation was established with Nav, and both user committees and user organisations were involved. The new management system has established new organisational units and developed IT systems and solutions for public information and guidance. This has been done in order to establish effective solutions to ensure rapid processing, easy access to services and to provide good service to the public. Information material has been sent out, and a telephone number of your own has been created and an Internet page of your own. The application form for reimbursement is based on the form previously used by Nav. The patient should submit the form himself, and for most people it will be easier to send it in than to have to meet up with the Nav office. Unfortunately, in the initial phase, the application procedure was marked by far more applications than planned. On average, 54 pst came in. more applications in the period from the start of 1 September 2009 and the end of the year than it did in the same period of the previous year, and in December 2009 the application base was almost twice as large as in December 2008. Regional health enterprises have taken this situation very seriously: staffing has been strengthened, employees are working shifts, changes have been made to the treatment system, procedures have been simplified, telephone services and other communication measures have been strengthened. However, I understand that it may take some time to get the full effect of the measures, so that this delay is collected. The aim is that the procedure should be extended for two to three weeks, that the application form become more user-friendly, and that patients should receive a more adapted and individualised treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1193	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and, to the extent that a careful admission is made, that the scheme may not have worked well enough from the start, because, as the Council of State points out, it was a transitional phase from September to January. But many have turned to me and informed that the waiting time is up to eight weeks, on average six to seven weeks, especially in Health SouthEast. What might be particularly challenging is that for those people who have a difficult economy, large travel expenses that they don't get reimbursed in a couple of months, in the worst case, can mean that they can't buy the food they want, or pay the rent they had to pay. So actually, I would like the Council of State to bring down the waiting time immediately to consider seeing if one could use the Nav, taking Nav for help, in the phase that is a bit critical right now. Is there anything the Council of State could consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1198	I can't see that it's going to be relevant to use Nav now, but I'm very busy with these other tools, that we've put on full-day staffing – that shifts are being done, and that one has intensified the information and service to the population and to the public. But I have a great understanding that it is felt that it is very difficult to wait as many weeks to get a refund as you have spent. The Ministry has closely followed up with the project office that is working on this. It was thought that this would be predictable, because you had experience in reimbursement for patient travel from the past, but the big challenge here was that the application bench turned out to be so much larger, it increased by 54 pst. There's one of the things that makes us have a situation with some queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1203	I am so glad that the Council of State has that focus. The Internet and telephone are one thing, and it will be easy for both the Council of State and I to handle, but many of the feedback I have received just seems to be hard to find. We were followers of users meeting one door, or one person to turn to, but to get reimbursement for patient treatment, one should turn to Nav, and then there is reimbursement of patient travel that can be challenging in itself. Doesn't the Council see that it can be difficult for some people to rely so much on the Internet and telephone, because one then doesn't have the water, to be able to turn to a living person when one needs help?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1210	I have a lot of understanding that when we talk about the Internet, it can be demanding for a lot of people. But when we're talking about the phone, there's something most people can deal with, and we've tried to simplify this by creating their own phone number, so those who need it can get help and guidance. There is one form to be used, we have tried to simplify it, it has to be sent in, and then you have to get your money back. But what I have a lot of understanding for, and that's really what I understand is the basis for the whole question, is just the problem that people have to wait a long time for money that they should have had back. We're serious about this, and we're doing what we can to improve the situation, so that people get the offer that they're entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1225	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1231	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The Minister of Justice has for a long time boasted of the government’s commitment to the police. In the Telemark police district, full employment stops have been introduced, while only in the Telemark police district, the number of police officers has been reduced by 20 in a short time, which is in stark contrast to the promise of more and more visible police. The job stop means that young policemen don't get a job. Is the Council of State satisfied with this development and, where appropriate, what will the Council of State do to strengthen the police here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1240	There is reason to be very satisfied with the government's commitment to the police. In both this and the previous period, the government has significantly increased police budgets. We are working all the time to provide the police with resources and framework conditions that enable them to carry out their tasks in a good way. Since the change of government, the police budget has increased from DKK 8.7 billion in 2006 – we took over after the bourgeois budgets together with the Advance Party – to DKK 11.6 billion in 2010. This is a growth of SEK 2.9 billion – 32.8 pst. In 2010, that is, the current year, the budget was increased by a total of NOK 1.3 billion. If you subtract from price and salary adjustments, the growth is close to NOK 1.2 billion. I've checked historically – this is the biggest bet of the time on the Norwegian police. In the action package last year, 460 civil acts were set up in the police and relief service. There are about 280 police officers who are released for operational work and who are distributed across districts. In addition, as part of the new special agreement on police working time, which entered into force on 1 October 2009, an agreement was made to increase the working time of many police officers by one hour. This results in an estimated resource increase of 230 years. Overall, this gives — only these two measures — a significant rise for the police, compared with 700 years of work. The police budget is allocated according to a distribution model using a number of criteria to maximise the correct distribution between police districts. When the police district receives its annual framework allocation, the management of the district is responsible for allocating resources so that the population is provided with the best possible police service. Telemark police districts use approx. 84 pst. of the allocated budget for remuneration. Calculations for police reform 2000, which began on 1 January 2002, showed that the police district had about a quarter of its population. 23 annual works more than the resource allocation model were added. Telemark police districts also face a challenge in that the district has prioritised the acquisition of new premises and continues to pay rent for its former premises. I am aware that the district is currently looking at the possibilities of re-priorities that provide a better balance between wage and other operating costs. Telemark police district has received its proportional share of the total budget, and the district budget has increased by 21.6 p.m., 48 million. kr, from 2006 to 2010. From 2009 to 2010, the budget has increased from 253.3 million. NOK 272.4 million. kr, an increase of 7.9 pst. This is one of the largest growth in the number of millions ever, also for Telemark. Telemark police district received 7.3 million. kr, corresponding to 14 annual works, in the context of the action package presented in 2009. This has continued in 2010 with full-year effects. In addition, compensation granted by the police district in connection with the special agreement on working time arrangements amounts to 11 million. kr, around seven annual works, for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1257	I record that the Council of State says that there is reason to be ‘very satisfied’. Yes, then I record that the Council of State is “very satisfied” with having 320 fewer policemen around the country, because these are the actual facts, these are the feedback you get around in the police districts, these are the feedback you get from the police officers. So that's the very opposite of what the Council of States is telling us today, and that's what the Council of States said in the presentation of the 2010 State Budget, when he stood up and promised 1,000 new annual works to the Police and National Assembly. I don't think this is anything to be proud of. You have to talk about heads and ears, but you know that there are paychecks and other things that make things happen. I want to challenge the Council of State, because the consequence in Telemark is that young policemen who have graduated are sent to Nav and unemployment instead of actually doing crime-fighting work. I want to challenge the Council of State whether it is not better to use the resources to do crime prevention work than to send new trainees on unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1264	The answer is yes. We train an incredible number of policemen. We have tripled the recording in relation to what was the case when the Progress Party created its budgets together with the Bondevik government, from 240 a.m. to now over 700. It is clearly our ambition that these policemen should get to work. Anything else would be completely meaningless. We will therefore now follow the situation in the police districts very closely, so that they get a job. That's point one. The second thing – and I think it is worth stressing – is that the figures that have now appeared in the press, I think the Stortinget should also use with some caution. We are now following a lot of these figures, and it may seem that the estimates coming from the police districts are considerably too high. I have said today, among other things: in debate in the media, that when these figures are clear, of course, the Storting should also get them from us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1271	I think it is good that the Council of State answers in cash yes to my question. But he follows up on saying that you have ambitions. It doesn't help with ambitions for the police who are actually ready to do a job for society by doing crime prevention work, running crime control. They need a job. They need to be allowed to be policemen, to whom they are trained. It doesn't help to use a lot of resources to educate people if we don't have a job to give them when they're trained, and at least not within an area like this. We know that in Telemark, among others in the summer, and so far in the winter, there is a much higher proportion in the area than is assumed when the Council of State says there are 23 police officers too much. You need these policemen. They are not least needed to maintain order and order. We have major challenges, including: during the summer and during the winter season in winter places. That's why I really hope that the Council of State will stop talking just about ambitions, but actually move on to action, and make sure that the police now sent out to unemployment come back to work, and that we use those resources in a good and sensible way for society, for fighting crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1278	I think it's useful to have ambitions in this field. But at the same time, the red-green government is the government that has tripled the police high school admission, unlike when the Progress Party made budgets with the Bondevik government. The red-green government is also the one who has ever provided the largest police budgets. Money is put on the table, both in terms of obtaining more annual work through the working time contract and being able to get more civilians into service, for example. Recruiters over 45 police officers to work with organised crime — they have the crime of profit, the crime of war, the police of the armed forces, and so on. It's obvious that we need a lot of police force in the future. Then I'll probably wait for something and see how it goes with the coals that are now coming out of the Police College. I am quite convinced that it will be work for them. But you have to assume that you can't necessarily get a job in the first and primary place you want. Policemen need us all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1288	Yes, now there are prices and debates about political schools – almost a little too many successors here too, as was the case with too many political films. But that's not what the question is about here: ‘The acquisition of new life-saving helicopters is steadily extending in time. The government has recently decided to extend the lifetime of today's Sea King helicopters until 2020, and the helicopter fleet will be about 50 years old. The decision has prompted the main rescue agencies to send out a joint statement of concern. What is the background for further delay in the procurement process, how does the Council of State assess the notification from the rescue centres, and how will the Council of State ensure an adequate rescue service with today’s helicopter fleet?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1297	After all, the acquisition to which the representative Octay Dahl refers is a comprehensive process that will have an impact over the next 30 to 40 years. New rescue helicopters will lead to a significant upgrade of the Norwegian rescue helicopter service and have ring-effects against many different actors and stakeholders throughout the overall rescue service. Life-saving helicopters are highly advanced and expensive non- shelf tools and therefore require a comprehensive pre-acquisition assessment. There's something of the background that this takes time, it's raised above any doubt. And I'm going to think that the Right-Representative André Oktay Dahl knows that, because this was also dealt with under the previous government, where, among other things. the discussion on the use of the option was ongoing. With regard to the statement that the acquisition process is further delayed, it is important to bear in mind that this is a significant acquisition, even in an economic sense – with costs of a total of several billion DKK. As the responsible State Council, I am therefore concerned that we are acquiring the right helicopters and that the process is being carried out in a proper manner. The process towards such choices must be orderly and provide confidence to all parties involved. I therefore set the quality high – not only for the result, but also for the process. Reducing the quality requirement can have serious consequences, as we saw in the corresponding acquisition in Denmark, where the Danish national audit has been very critical of the process and thought it was going too fast. I will also have an external quality assurance of the choices made before the decision is taken. In the case of concerns from the main rescue centres about a possible need to upgrade today’s Sea King rescue helicopters, this is a situation with which the Ministry of Justice follows very closely and is well known. The Ministry of Justice is therefore in dialogue with the Defence and the Sea King supplier on the possible consequences of a lifetime extension until new rescue helicopters are in place. There will always be difficult balances between the time when reinvestments in old materials are stepped down compared to the time when new materials are coming in, but different measures related to maintaining high preparedness will be assessed. However, it is premature to conclude on what measures this will be. A measure that the Ministry of Justice has already taken is to replace today's heat-seeking camera with a new, modern camera. Recently, nightglasses have also been introduced in all helicopters. These are both significant investments, which help to improve the ability of rescue helicopters to search for missing people. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that from 2005 to 2009, a 24-hour bystander has been established, with doctors at all bases, and that a new base has been opened up in Florø, which is also an important argument for the smooth progress of the procurement process. In other words, the rescue helicopter service has been significantly improved in recent years. Together with a very thorough maintenance programme, this has been combined to ensure an adequate rescue service with today’s helicopter fleet until new rescue helicopters are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1314	I thank you for your answer. With regard to the concerns of rescue agencies, does the Council of State consider what he says as a guarantee that upgrades will be possible to ensure that the existing helicopters will be fully sound in order to ensure the preparedness we all require until 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1321	I have a principle approach to political guarantees – often they are of little value when you get far into the future. But you have to guarantee that you do what you can, and just make sure that the fleet that we now have works well in the future. The representative knows, among others: through the last year’s budgetary procedures and proposals — which have been supported by the Right — that significant amounts are being spent on maintenance at Sea King. Many of us are very happy with the Sea King machine, and believe that it is one of the finest things we have in the rescue service. I'm still at it, but I see clearly the need to be able to renew the fleet. At the same time, as I said in my post, finding the intersection – when are we going to start downgrading the maintenance with a view to resetting it? We have great ambitions and hopes to find that particular point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1326	I also thank you for that answer. There aren't so many surprising answers coming, because this is a complicated process. The fact that things have gone fast is well to get involved, since one started in a way already with the Fostervoll Committee in 1995. But I'll leave it. I have received some reports that cooperation between the different departments is perceived as not being coordinated with the acquisition of helicopters. It is almost impossible for outsiders to get an overview of the process and the cost picture, and it seems that cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence is not well coordinated. Can the Council of States say something about how he sees the closer cooperation between defence and justice in the financing of both the presence and development of rescue helicopters, because there is a rather central point to get this process on the rails as best as possible – and get a decision as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1335	This is an important question, because one of the prerequisites for achieving this is that several actors are able to interact, both in terms of the requirement specification given, the economic situation, etc. – and practical implementation. But I would like to stress that our view in the Ministry of Justice is that the cooperation with the Ministry of Defence in this field has been very good over the last four years, especially as far as the extension we have had of base structure, a new base in Florø – where the defense is doing well – the development of new sites for the rescue services, and now last but not least we saw it also as regards the acquisition of heat-seeking cameras. We also have good and close cooperation at all levels – from the level of office to the level of the State Council – with the Ministry of Defence in particular, but there are also other actors within this, the Ministry of Health and others, so I have to say that I am particularly pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1346	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Organised crime is increasingly organised, it is increasing in scope and it is becoming more cross-border. In order to meet these negative developments, broad and well-functioning cooperation by the authorities is essential. In what ways does the Council of State consider that we can best ensure effective cooperation between police, other state agencies and municipalities, so that information, action and follow-up are systematically carried out between them in the fight against organised crime and other socially threatening activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1355	First of all, I must be allowed to state that I am very pleased that the representative Anders Werp is asking this question, because I know that, as rapporteur in Obere Eiker, the representative just did what we want to motivate other municipalities and rapporteurs to do to combat organised crime – in particular what is related to MC crime. That's why we know that here I'm asked by someone who's an expert in the field. Much of the answer to combating this type of crime lies in the work being done, among other things. did in Upper Eiker. We cannot be blinded by the fact that, when it comes to combating organised crime, the number of police heads is counted and the debate on criminal policy is only a debate on it. It is absolutely essential that we, among other things, The police councils that are now in place, so that more municipalities than the Upper Eiker actually get a look at the local policy instruments that can be used here, whether it be the planning and building law, alcohol law issues, etc., that can be used and must be used to prevent crime. So it's absolutely crucial, especially against the organized crime we see, and that has been most visible in the form of mobile profit crime in recent months, that the police are also equipped to take this. This is why more action has been taken here. I launched a ten-point list of measures in August 2009 to strengthen the fight against such crime and to strengthen coordination within the police. That is why we are strengthening the U.S. police force, Kripos and some selected police districts with as much as 45 posts, which will be in place during this year, preferably in the summer. I also believe it is absolutely essential that we put in place the 'border package' adopted in the State budget, thus strengthening border police control. The DNA reform, which we've been using over 100 million in recent years. kr every year, is also absolutely crucial for catching up this type of crime, in conjunction with the agreement we have now concluded with the European Union on Norwegian participation in the Prüm Agreement, which gives us the opportunity to search for DNA in other countries' databases, which is absolutely vital to meeting organized international crime when we have tracks. And fortunately, we have that in many of the cases. Then I would also like to point out that it is absolutely essential that we establish more bilateral agreements with the country in question. That's where we work with Romania. I met with the Serbian Minister of Justice yesterday and discussed, among other things. the question of compensation transfer, so that the foreign nationals taken here can zone in their home country. It's very difficult, it takes time, but it's a very important part of this. But I will conclude by saying that the criminal policy debate is often concentrated around the police and prisons, and we need to put the search light on getting life into the police councils, so that we get tools locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1368	I thank you for your answer. Governments point to many important things – no doubt about it. The local focus is important, of course, but when we talk about organized crime and how it evolves now, it grows without frontiers. It's increasing. It's getting more advanced. So here it's not least that we also think carefully through the organization from above in society – the overall organisation – to meet this challenge. These environments are increasingly using threats and fears as a means of getting what they want. There are large sums of money inside the picture. The borderline against ordinary business is increasing. So my follow-up question is, what does the Council of State want to do to involve more state agencies outside the police? Because the police can't solve this on their own, we totally agree on that. But what will the Council of State do to involve several state agencies in a systematic, targeted work against organised crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1375	In addition to having a job to do locally, I fully agree that more central government actors must also be involved. We have forums to do that, and I'll mention two things in particular. The first is that cooperation with the customs office is crucial if we are to be able to do something in terms of borderline crime and to intervene with organised crime, especially in relation to drug transport. There, I would not recommend the Stortinget to go in the direction that the Progress Party has taken, by proposing significant cuts in this regard. The second is that we have to go after the money, so the effort that is now being made between the money laundering team in Økokrim and the tax department is absolutely crucial. Getting a better flow of information between these agencies is working on it. It's done a lot, and we see that the number of withdrawals is now increasing to hit the money in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1384	I also thank you for this answer. Unfortunately, we are very well aware of developments in organised crime. Crime is increasing, as mentioned. This needs to be met widely, and we need to take rapid action – not ad hoc, not project-oriented – to meet what we will call this socially threatening business. However, in a situation where this is known, it is important to ask a critical question to the Minister of Justice: What is it that has limited, or limits the Council of State to taking a broad initiative towards other state agencies – customs is important, tax authorities, Nav – and also municipalities, in order to meet this systematically? Time goes by, and this evolves quickly negatively. Here we have to get on the road with coordinated state action. What limits the Council of State to doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1393	I don't think there are any particular limitations to taking initiatives towards other state agencies. The initiatives have been taken and must also be taken in the future, in particular in the context of the main projects we have now launched against organised and, in particular, mobile profit-criminalism – the effort force that is about to be established. It is quite clear that the forums in which there is cooperation between tax rates, customs duties and other public bodies are absolutely crucial. Just going into the situation around taxi crime in Oslo shows the need for these agencies to cooperate. So the initiatives taken – there are more coordination groups – and the efforts of the whitewashing team, etc., mentioned in my previous article, are crucial. The government is aiming to present an overall plan on this, which I have notified to the representative Werp in the past, and it is quite clear that several other state actors must be involved here. If not, an effort force based only on police instruments will be ineffective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1400	We're now dealing with question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1406	This question, from the representative Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1409	It would have been desirable if the Minister of Industry had answered that, but I have been told that it is the oil and energy minister who will answer instead. I ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The high current prices we see now mean that several companies have either shut down production or are planning to do so in the near future. This makes more export-oriented enterprises that are already struggling economically now seem to be facing an additional economic challenge. Two of the main reasons why we are now in this situation are lack of transmission capacity and too little power generation. What action will the Council of State propose to ensure that no more firms are forced to shut down and lay off their employees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1418	A stable and efficient power system is a prerequisite for operating in Norway. In recent times, we've seen very unusually high electricity prices in almost all of the Nordic countries. South Norway and Jutland have distinguished themselves at lower prices due to restrictions on transmission capacity. The high prices are due to a long and cold winter in combination with the fact that large parts of Swedish nuclear power are out of operation. It has, among other things, result in low magazine filling, which has contributed to what the representative addresses. There is now a need to develop more networks in more places in the country. Major parts of the central network were built up in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, and significant investments are now needed. Statnet plans to invest 40 billion dollars in the central network over the next ten years. Electricity production and consumption are not evenly distributed across the country and there are restrictions on transmission capacity between different regions. I do not want there to be large regional price differences for long periods of time, and it is therefore my goal to remove large and long-term bottlenecks in the central network. Increased effort on network deployment and improved transmission capacity both between regions of the country and of the rest of the world are therefore important steps in my strategy to improve the flow of power, to ensure the balance of power and to contribute to more stable prices. We have also strengthened the commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement through Enova. In the period 2006-2009, a final authorisation was granted for new hydropower generation with annual production of approximately 1 %. 3.4 TWh and new wind power generation of approx. 2.6 TWh. Enova has granted aid to 500 GWh wind power generation and 2,6 TWh district heating production between 2006 and 31 July 2009. In addition, energy efficiency measures through Enova during the period amount to approximately 4.1 TWh. In addition, an important industrial policy measure is the increase in aid granted by Enova to industry. Over the period 2006-2009, 752 million were distributed. SEK in Enova aid for over 100 industrial projects. Hydropower expansion and Enova's energy performance total over 11 TWh in the last four years. In addition, I can only briefly mention that Sweden's Minister of Industry, Maud Olofsson, and I signed an agreement last September to contribute to a common Norwegian-Swedish electricity certificate market that will once again contribute to further increased renewable electricity production. Electricity prices have been very high throughout the Nordic region, not just in Norway. I believe that the high prices can only be reduced by long-term network investment, production and energy efficiency improvement, not by short-term simplicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1435	Of course, I thank the Council of State for the answer. That's an answer we've heard before. It repeats to the boring. The problem is that in these days there are several companies that have permitted their employees. There are several companies that consider doing the same thing, because over time they are unable to cope with the price levels we have now received. And then we see that these are obviously geographical differences. Many of the measures mentioned by the Council of State here are very good. However, these measures will take time to implement. Developing the network, e.g. the Ørskog-Fardal line, which he spoke about, will take many years. There are huge investments to be made there. At the same time, we get the numbers that show that the magazine fillings are far below normal, and the snow magazines in the mountains in these areas are far below normal. My question to the Council of State is: What action will you now take so that at least you can rebuild the capacity of the warehouses, so that we don't get into the same situation next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1446	Taking action to fill up the magazines – I realized that the question at the end of the country – I must, with respect to reporting, say something is outside my scope. It'll probably have been the next few months that's going to decide how much the magazines are being filled up. If the representative is thinking about intervention to reduce the use of electricity from the same warehouses and so prevent the detonation that is now taking place, the use of energy is going on, i.e. an efficient use of energy beyond spring. Adequate imports into the low-self-production areas are being ensured. Mid-Norway is an example of that. Fortunately, there we have a better situation now than we have had in the past by the fact that the Nea-Järpström connection has come up and thus contributes to the fact that the mid-Norway power area and the force area in the north are otherwise completely different from the previous one power area. So the most important single measure in terms of what I suppose the representative asked for is going on import capacity, primarily from Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1453	There's more grips. I do not expect the Council of State to have to wait and trust the Lord of Spring in that context. We'll see what weather will be like in the summer and in the autumn. My starting point is that you have to buy the warehouse capacity from the suppliers, so that they can build up capacity and not bottle down and use it. There's a cost associated with this. This can be done, inter alia: by running the mobile gas power stations beyond spring and summer in order to build up capacity. It may also be that a significant import into the region is open so that storage capacity can be increased. Here are several grips to take. I'm not going to deal with anything that has to do with just the precipitation, because it's a matter that I don't expect the Council of State to intervene in. My next question is: The council itself says that he cannot do any immediate, short-term grip. Yes, you can. You could say that we're going to run the mobile gas plants right away to fix the situation. It probably won't have the big impact on prices right away, but you can start building up the magazines. Will the Council of State now open it up, so that even in Central Norway you can have a business that is still up and running?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1460	I am pleased that the representative Nesvik is nuanced in his description of the effect of these mobile gas power plants. The difference in the effect that is available there, measured against the effect that is now out there, is the main problem in this issue – the difference between the 4000 megawatts that are now taken down from Swedish nuclear power generation and the 300 megawatts from the two power plants we have in Central Norway – are formidable. I guess we're talking about an installed effect on approx. 7.5 pst. of what's out there. So I think we're going to be sober with respect to the effect of that. So I have said that the decision that the Stortinget has taken in the past is something I'm dealing with, and that I also think is a wise decision to have a reserve capacity installed in the area, which has as its objective preparedness and which is to be started for any emergency reasons. It provides a very good security for the inhabitants of the region, because it is known that there is access to power no matter what happens in relation to preparedness issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1468	I am pleased to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «In connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009 on the financial crisis package proposed increased support for the deployment of renewable energy in Central Norway. This winter has seriously shown the need for more power in Middle Norway. Will the Council of State now ensure that increased funding for the development of energy is channelled and consider establishing a support programme for such development in specific geographical areas, this time directly linked to the Middle Norway region?’ [[renewable]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1477	In the past, the government has drawn up a broad strategy to improve the power situation in Central Norway. Extensive measures to improve this situation have already been implemented. The government will follow up with further measures in the future. The main elements of the strategy are measures to strengthen the network under the direction of Statnet, and to focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, respectively. Statnett has invested approximately DKK 5 billion in recent years, and they are planning additional investments for DKK 2.5 billion in the coming years. A new transmission link between Sogn and Møre is now being processed in the department. Realising this link will significantly improve the power situation in Central Norway. The government is pursuing an ambitious policy to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. This year, EUR 1.8 billion is being transferred to Enova's work on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. In the period 2006 to 2009, more than SEK 5.3 billion has been allocated to this initiative. Otherwise, almost two and a half times as much as the previous government put off. Since 2006, grants have been granted to projects with expected energy performance of approximately 7,5 TWh. The initiative has helped to trigger many good projects in central Norway, and it has facilitated a continued high level of activity. We need to strengthen efforts to develop networks in those regions where there has been an imbalance between production and consumption. We also need to continue to promote the development of renewable energy, and we need to strengthen efforts to use energy more effectively. The development of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement will make the power balance more robust when we have a good network in all parts of the country. It is therefore necessary to pay very close attention to network deployment in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1486	Thanks for the answer. As you can see, the Progress Party proposed 300 million. kr. to bet in central Norway just to meet the current challenges you are facing, and as a measure at a time when it was sensible to contribute public action packages to keep the wheels going. Today we see that this extra injection could have contributed to the solution of this major challenge that the lack of power poses, had taken an important step forward. We see in the media that also the state councils of their party colleagues in More and the Romsdal Centerparti demand a solution by cancelling Mid-Norway as own price range and ensuring equal electricity prices throughout the country. This proposal also depends on the Central Party of Trøndelag. If one goes to such a solution, then it's, as many describe it, like sticking your head in the sand and believing that the problem is gone. But in addition, the More and Romsdal Center parties are able to suspect corner stone companies through the following force ointments: ‘We cannot risk shutting down corner stone holdings and sending employees to Nav, in order to have a financial gain through power sales.’ What plans does the Government have to meet this challenge, even after the Ørskog-Fardal power line has been completed? For even then, an unmet energy requirement has been met in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1500	My ambition is to continue the work that we are now doing well, as, among other things. – as I mentioned – includes spending NOK 7.5 billion in the area. And with all due respect for $300 million, I think what's being done in the area is considerably more than that. It is the sum of these measures – network development, power development and energy efficiency improvement in Central Norway – that will contribute to the gradual improvement of the situation. This has helped to improve the flow of power between central Norway and the Nordic market by getting more of the Nea–Järpstream in place. So it's paradoxical enough that this year the situation that we've seen in winter in the Nordic market has been so serious that it's also turned into Middle Norway. But there is – as I said in the previous line exchange – no other way to solve it than to work targetedly with network investments, with energy efficiency improvement and with power development in the region. We're doing all these three things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1509	It seems that the Council of State has begun to get a reality orientation that is closer to the Center Party in the two named counties' conclusions. And I'm glad – that one doesn't look for price differences that lie on half an ear and one ear – and what it is now. So it's a progress. But when it comes to the direct actions that can be launched, Industrial Power Møre has been granted a concession, with it depending on CO2 treatment. Does the Council not see that by accepting this measure without CO2 cleaning, which amounts to 450 MW, he could also help to ensure that energy could be put in place more quickly, even after the Fardal – Ørskog line is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1522	There is no doubt that 450 MW in Central Norway will contribute to an improved energy balance in the region. I'll almost say that is pure mathematics. What we have said, in connection with the concession, is that we are involved in the energy part, but also in the climate part, and that the management of emissions is also part of this. I think that, in a difficult time that we are now in, I too want to be able to focus on both the energy challenges and the climate challenges. It has been no more than two months since we – almost all of the world’s countries – were gathered in Copenhagen to discuss how to meet the climate challenges ahead. The result was not uplifting. We in Norway need to follow up on what is the intention, the thinking, behind global climate work, by also having ambitions at home. And part of that ambition is on clean-up technology, clean-up power plants to bring down emissions, and that also applies to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1532	‘The strength situation has exerted several places in the country, and statistics show that many of the water reservoirs have the lowest filling rate in many years. As the centre party was in opposition, they made a proposal to introduce requirements for the filling of warehouses in hydroelectric power stations at different seasons. How has the Council of State followed this up in government, and how will the Council of State ensure and avoid security of supply problems this spring, as a result of empty water storage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1539	Warehousing is of great importance for the power system’s ability to manage security of supply and for the ability to cover consumption up to snow smelting. The issue of the appropriate disposal of the warehouses and whether changes in their regulation may contribute to changing security of supply have been examined several times. Warehousing was one of the themes of the Government's evaluation of the Energy Act in the last major period. SINTEF was entrusted with the task of assessing the disposal of these warehouses before and under the Energy Act. The report concludes that there is no basis for saying that today’s gastric induration is too low. The representative of Solvik-Olsen was involved in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009 on changes to the Energy Act, where the Sintef report and assessments of gastric containment were discussed. In the proposition, it was established that the Government believes that manufacturers make good use of the warehouses. It was also clarified that due to the important function of the warehouses NVE follows the filling level of the warehouses closely. I will not give the Committee's full comments here, but just briefly point out that the Committee, among other things, said: ‘The Committee requires the NVE to closely and continuously monitor the degree of flooding when the hydropower system can be affected by significant failure.’ I think it's unfortunate that the price statements we've seen in the Nordic region this winter. The important function of the warehouses requires the energy authorities to follow closely the level of filling in the warehouses. The combination of cold weather and significantly reduced nuclear power production in Sweden has given rise to high prices in the Nordic market and a stronger tapping of the water reservoirs than would otherwise have been. State networks have a number of measures to deal with this situation. These measures include the creation of price ranges, the dissemination of information among actors, audit reports and measures to increase the import capacity of areas. These measures shall be implemented continuously, if necessary, to ensure that there is sufficient electricity at all times. State networks have also gone to the purchase of energy options. These are voluntary consumption reduction agreements. These are triggered if the risk of rationalisation is assessed as high. In addition, it is invested in two back-up power plants, which I believe the representative is well-known, and which will also be put into operation at high risk of rationalisation. In exceptional situations, temporary derogations may be granted under the provisions of the Energy Act from the conditions of the works concessions for the start-up of the back-up power plants. Statnet has warned that it will apply to the energy authorities for such a derogation in order to prepare back-up power plants for operation. The situation we now have is a reminder of the importance of continuing to expand transmission systems, increase renewable energy production and use energy more efficiently. That is why we are going to build up more networks in the years that are coming and continue to escalate on renewable energy production and energy efficiency. I would like to stress that I agree with Mr Solvik-Olsen that we must avoid empty magazines in the current season. Statnet’s actions will help to avoid security of supply problems this spring, as a result of empty water storage facilities. But in order to improve the unsustainable situation in the long term, we have to do a lot more than what has been done in the past, which I am working on and I am prepared to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1568	I'm almost uncertain about how I'm going to attack this, because I have in front of me a proposal that the Center Party promoted in 2002–2003, where they demanded the introduction of minimum water resources in the power plants. Now the Council of State argues that it was not necessary anyway. It is a long way from history, but on 1 March this year, the head of the Committee on Energy and the Environment was from the Central Party and called for "Strengthening lute" in energy policy, according to one case in the News Agency of the Newspapers. He says that the time has come to discuss ‘minimum requirements for filling in warehouses at hydropower plants’. Ergo: The opposite of what the state council now says. Is the policy of the Council of State firm, or is one still looking at this in relation to whether to buy energy options or to do something about taxation, where one buys a greater degree of security from the power companies to keep more water in the warehouses when meteorological conditions... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1575	What I referred to in my reply regarding the odelstingsproposition that I promoted for the Storting last year, and the Committee's comments on it, is the basis of my and the Government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1580	It was a very quick cancellation of a party colleague's play in ANB, and it's too much fun. Then I won't go on with it. There is still a high potential for upgrading and extension of existing hydropower plants. Now, of course, some claim that expanding more hydropower when the problem is low rainfall does not solve the situation. I agree, but at the same time it's better to have ten hydroelectric plants with little water than just having two, for example. What then becomes my question is: does the Council of State do something to advance processes where an upgrader – and not least expand – existing hydropower plants, especially with magazine filling, so that one can hold even more water when there is good rainfall, and where one has even more to deal with in such situations as what we now have in order to prevent one from seeing the gravel in the magazines?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1587	I fully agree that we must avoid seeing the gravel in the magazines – it is a goal in terms of filling in the magazines. When it comes to concession treatment and matters around it, the NVE has been given completely different resources than they had before. They've spent a few years building up, training new people and adapting to a new resource situation. I expect clear results from the NVE in the form that several cases are dealt with successfully and faster case flows as a result. The answer to the question from the representative Solvik-Olsen is for this reason: yes, there is more pressure on this area now, and that kind of case should therefore be dealt with more quickly than they have been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1597	This question, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, is raised by the representative of Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1600	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘In Dagbladet on 5 February 2010, we can read that former teacher and author Terje Forsberg, who believes that teachers have to endure being spit on and harassed, is used as a lecturer in teacher training. In recent years, the State has invested considerable resources in the GNIST recruitment campaign to attract more applicants for teacher training. Does the State Council of Forsberg think that the message to emerging teachers builds up during the recruitment campaign, or does the Council of State see that this can rather help to scare new teachers away from school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1609	Of course, the representative of Gundersen is right that the Government has invested considerable resources in the GNIST project, and we are very proud of the results we have achieved so far – in 2009 we achieved almost 20 pst. increase in the number of qualified applicants for general teacher training. When it comes to the question, I don't think teachers should accept being spitted on and harassed. Firstly, teachers are entitled to a good and safe working environment, in line with other workers in Norway. Secondly, schools have rules of procedure to deal with both pupils and teachers. None of these regulations accept spitting or sheiking. There's no doubt about it here. The answer to the question is therefore simple: No, as Forsberg’s message is presented by Dagbladet through the title ‘Teachers have to endure being spit on’, from 5 February this year, it does not build up during our recruitment campaign. Then you can ask yourself the sources here. But at the same time, I would say that Forsberg is making a contribution to an important debate. Of course, even if a teacher is not to accept being spit on or harassed, the teacher must be able to deal with such a situation in a professional way if it occurs first. And that's what I'm interpreting that Forsberg is trying to convey. Unfortunately, many children live in a daily life that is marked by fear and uncertainty, for example: due to parental drug abuse and violence in close relationships. Outrageous behavior in children may have many underlying causes, and a teacher must have the skills to understand and handle them professionally. In the new teacher training courses, we are now introducing a new and reinforced pedagogical subject: pedagogics and learning skills. This will provide future teachers with even better knowledge of children in difficult situations. I would also like to link this to seeing the importance of early action, both for students’ learning outcomes and as a prevention measure against non-response. Teachers must be competent to understand and deal with such situations. The representative points out that Forsberg is used as a lecturer in a number of universities and colleges. I don't think of it as a problem. The educational institutions invite Forsberg to the professional days and other discussion forums to give a voice to those he himself mentions as problem children. That is a voice I think we should listen to. The teacher is a person who, by seeing and understanding the signals sent out by disadvantaged children, can help these children out of a bad situation. Then you have to look past such an outrageous behavior that such a background can often result in, rather than handle it in a professional way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1620	I very much appreciate the answer, and it is said, of course, that it is not acceptable with that kind of behavior. I very much agreed with much of what the Council of State said. But then I think it's strange that you've been almost absent in the debate. Because this is a very important question. We have a school of challenges, and the challenges are both learning exchange and trouble. It goes on the authority of the teachers: how do we attract teachers who can create authority? And through it, how do we attract teachers who become the good leaders of the class? It's in the middle of the debate about what Forsberg's input is – in a completely hopeless way, in the opinion of both my and the Council of State. But why hasn't the Council of State got involved in the debate when it's so central in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1627	I didn't say that Forsberg was hopeless, I said that the media's presentation of such matters can often be somewhat unbalanced and perhaps not entirely research-based, to use an expression from my own sector. I cannot agree with the claim that we have been absent in this debate. The whole debate on the new teacher training has been about how to get better teachers, and in the new teacher training we have taken different steps to highlight the teacher's role as leader. We are among others in the process of setting up new principal schools on the basis of their good competence as managers and in the light of the many roles of the teacher. And as I said, the new pedagogical science, pedagogics and learning skills are built up in such a way that the teacher should be able to understand and interpret such situations. There has been a lot of debate on this, and I and my colleagues have been involved in this debate, so I wonder if we have not been present in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1634	Then we might have a slightly different sense of reality. But it is good to hear that the Council of State also believes that it is very important. There has been enough look-up, both in the newspaper and other media, where students and others go out and say that they have no respect for the teacher anymore, and we see from the statistics that fighting and unrest is a significant problem in Norwegian school. So once again, I want to get a message here also to the audience, to people, about how we want to have Norwegian school. Working with teacher training and things like that is one thing, but it's about actively participating in the debate on how we recruit resource people and leaders into Norwegian school, so you get the class leadership that creates good learning outcomes. And again, I hope the Council of State is more committed to that debate out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1641	I would now rather go directly to them, rather than make me understand this by reading the newspaper and other newspapers. And we do, and that's the starting point for the entire GNIST campaign, which the representative also referred to at the beginning. We have launched the GNIST campaign, which is a campaign to attract and attract the good teachers. It is a partnership between the ministry, where I have been very active and visible in this matter with colleagues, and many organisations – KS and others – that are involved in this campaign. Why do we have this? Well, it's just to get good, young people to apply for teacher training. Teacher training today is an education in which one facilitates teachers to become clear also as leaders, to be able to master difficult situations, and to make it clear that it is the teacher who is in charge of the classroom. This is the most important answer to the challenge we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1651	‘More players in the food market are now alerting that they want to engage more strongly in the whole value chain from raw material to finished goods in stores. Increased competition will benefit consumers through better product choice and lower prices. How will the Council of State facilitate more actors and strengthen competition throughout the value chain in the food market?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1658	The government has been busy facilitating good and equal conditions for competition throughout the food value chain. We have also seen results of this, through the emergence of several new medium-sized enterprises that are now doing well. In particular, I would like to refer to the positive development of several dairy farms after this government has designed and put in place new framework conditions from 2007. The government has further facilitated a major innovation and development, which has given us a much greater food diversity. Through, inter alia: Innovation Norway and the Value Creation Programme for Food, Regional Enterprises, the Bond Market and, in particular, regional cooperation solutions have developed their own and often specific local and regional products. One consequence of this initiative is that the diversity of such products has increased considerably, compared to, for example, for 10 years ago. Look at what's on the Bond's Market today. I have also proudly opened the Norwegian stand at the International Green Week in Berlin earlier this year. This time the supply of Norwegian food specialities was greater than ever. The interaction between food and travel shall tempt German tourists to visit Norway. Last year I registered that representatives of the Advance Party Group were also excited about this diversity during the International Green Week. However, the problem for many of these small suppliers is market access and access to the store shelves. In order to achieve this, they need to build up a production, logistics and a sales apparatus that meets relatively large demands and expectations from the daily food industry and trade elsewhere. In some cases, there may also be a requirement that the supplier actually have to pay to fit in the shelf at the store. For small suppliers, this threshold is often too high. The result is that in many cases local and regional food diversity is not to be found as a diversity of products in store shelves for consumers most. Today there is a very strong concentration in Norwegian retail trade. Four chains control 99.3 pst. of the market. This is by far the strongest concentration we can find in Europe. These chains also control wholesale and distribution, with the exception of milk, and also integrate into industry and back to primary production, inter alia. of fruit and green. As the representative of Treldal refers to in his question, we have now also been given clear ambitions that some chains also want to strengthen this integration in the value chain. In addition, it is often ignored that two chains alone also control the wholesale, hotel, restaurant and kiosk markets. With such a check, it means that four purchasing managers already have a significant influence on the Norwegian consumer product range. This is important to have as a background when the same chains express ambitions to own or control an even larger part of the value chain. The representative of Tåldal appears to assume that developments with increased concentration will result in increased competition and therefore lower prices and better product choice. I think it's too simple an approach. A reality in the extension of this development will be that trade will no longer only take place at the level of trade, but also at the level of industry and thus as a supplier in competition with its other suppliers. This is not an unproblematic development of competition policy, consumer policy or agricultural policy, and there is no indication that there will be an increase in product choice and lower prices in the longer term. In my opinion, it could rather lead to the depletion of the Norwegian food industry and its capacity for innovation and innovation. In that case, it will give Norwegian consumers a lower choice of products. This is one of the reasons why I, together with the Minister of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs and the Minister of Children, Equality and Inclusion, have set up a separate public body, headed by Einar Steensnæs. The selection shall describe the latest developments and the outreach of the strengths of the food value chain. The committee shall propose measures which may be taken to: the interests of consumers in terms of price, quality, range of products and availability of transparency and transparency throughout the food chain, ensuring adequate and adequate social control and efficient use of societal resources; Norwegian authorities are not alone in following this development closely. In the EU, there is great concern about the distribution of margins between the retail trade, industry and primary industries. The background is that the fall in the price to the farmer of many important agricultural products has not led to similar falls in the price at the store. A separate high-level group has made 30 different recommendations. Several of the recommendations concern smaller suppliers and their opportunities in relation to an increasingly offensive daily food trade. This was the theme of the EU Council meeting in January, and it will also be put on the agenda in March. I can assure the representative, Treldal, that the government's policy is firm. I will therefore continue to stimulate the development of new businesses and the development of new products. We will continue to contribute to ensuring market access for these companies, partly through our own actions and partly by challenging trade, but also by offering cooperation solutions. The Government will ensure that competition in the market and in the whole value chain operates in a way that meets both the needs of consumers and ensures good policy achievement, both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1695	That a public sample is going to explore the food chain, the Progress Party is very pleased. And we're glad that the government has followed our proposals that were made in the last period. But what I'm a little disappointed about, is that when you look at the government sample the minister has put down, you have left out the people of the food industry and would like to leave those who might compete with and are critical of Nortura. You don't want these. Hopefully we won't get bad results from that, but we can get it. I'm going to quote the grocery store on Friday 19 February and the group leader in Nortura, Geir Olav Opheim: "Northura needs to change a lot to avoid falling outside. We have developed a very high level of costs in relation to what there is room for, concluded Opheim during a seminar in Oslo the other day." Opheim also says that there are major problems with capital. My question to the Council of State concerns the following: In Sweden, a few years ago, Nortura had too little capital. This made them walk on their backs, which led to Finnish companies coming in. Could this happen also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1711	First of all, I am pleased that the Progress Party will also have this sample that is reduced and that is going to review the strength conditions throughout the whole food value chain, but I will reject the fact that there are some irregularities in the composition of the sample. The food industry, trade, institutions and organisations are well represented in a broad and complex range which also possesses economic and legal competence. With regard to the question of Nortura's economy and the comments that come there, I believe that initially it has nothing to do with this question. Nortura has been through a difficult situation. They work hard to improve their financial situation. Of course, I have confidence that this results in solutions that are good for Nortura's owners, as it should also be in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1718	Now, when we talk about innovation and prices on markets, it's going well: because of the customs barriers we have in Norway, you can travel to Sweden today and buy lamb meat from New Zealand for 50 Swedish kroner, in addition to the course, so it's clear that with the rigid system we have, it's difficult for the food industry to be able to compete. That's also what they say to us who travel and talk to everyone, except Nortura, then. Monday March 1st, two professors, Frank Asche and Atle G. Guttormsen, write in Today's Business: ‘The farmers will be able to benefit from the participation of the Rema chain in the production process in the food industry.’ They go on to say, ‘A more efficient production and logistics will make it profitable for Rema to give farmers a higher price.’ They believe that by giving farmers a better price, and although farmers will hardly admit it, Reitan's strategy paradoxically could be an advantage to Norwegian farmers. Do the councils agree with the professors?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1735	I think I'm not going to comment on two professors' assessment of part of the food value chain. I think that an interaction between the cooperative and Rema, as they point out, can produce results. I'm not quite sure it gives the results that the professors suggest. Let's just say that. My point is that, through this public investigation, we're going to make sure that we're going through the whole value chain, from the farmer to the consumer. We are committed to strengthening competition throughout the value chain. We are concerned that we should ensure that consumers face proper prices, just as the supplier, the farmer and the food industry also have proper prices. In this context, it is of course not least that we get a good balance across the whole value chain, which ensures this important food industry in the future, which is one of the largest in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1742	Question 20 was then closed. The President could normally be tempted to mention, after six speeches, that we have an institution in Norway called the Competition Authority, but since no one has mentioned it in six posts, I just want to remind you that it is there, even if it is in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1748	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The three company shooters in operation have major problems in finding alternative modes of operation to create full-year operations. In addition, it is problematic for them that the operational basis for self-anxiety comes so late from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast that it is difficult to plan the seasons. What opportunities do the Councils see for involving them in other forms of operation to prevent us from losing a fishing fleet with this special competence, and are the Councils of State comfortable with the fact that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast is so late on track in relation to the season of the year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1757	In recent years, the main instrument to support self-growth has been to provide various forms of support. Substantial grants have been provided both for capture, product development and for upgrading equipment. For the last few years, the fishing premium has been in the order of 1,4 to 3,2 million. kr per. vessel per year. This has been thoroughly reviewed in Chapter 3.6 of the Norwegian Maritime Mammal Policy Communication, where the Government has committed to continuing the vessel support in order to maintain fishing in the West ice. If they want operational options, they must obtain them within the framework of the rules in force, as I also pointed out in my letter to the nutrition committee on 5 February 2010 in response to four questions raised by the members of the Committee of the Right in connection with the examination of the notification by the Committee. An overall committee has in Innst. 156 S for 2009-2010 stated that this ‘is a responsibility for the shipping companies themselves’. However, as I also stated in my letter, the department has granted two self-afraid cuts exemption from the ban on the onboard production of royal crabs. The two self-afraid shots are as far as the only ones that have received a derogation for the onboard production of royal crabs. This dispensation includes the ownership of royal crabs outside the quota area and was granted on condition that the owners voluntarily accept to catch only king crabs outside a limit of 18 nautical miles from the baseline east of 26 degrees east. These restrictions were put in place to address the comments made by the Business Committee in the examination of the Royal Cancer paper on the protection of land-based raw material processing. In recent years, we have largely laid down the economic framework conditions for the self-reliance cuts that have been stable from year to year, precisely to increase industry predictability. At the same time, I am concerned that the industry will come up with views on the framework conditions, and I am concerned that, in consultation with the industry, we will find a good way to dispose of the funds. That is why, in this year, as in previous years, some time has been spent following the budget decision of the Storting before the final payment for the year's catches is fixed. I also remember that the Storing Communication on Norwegian marine mammals policy was set up for treatment on 9 March 2010. That debate gives a good opportunity to discuss in a broader context the issues raised by the representative, Bakke Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1774	We are aware that the mammalian notification will be treated later. Some of the problem is that the shooters as such have been busy now, and there is something of the background to my question. The second is that, traditionally, we've thought completely about the administration. We've said that marine mammals, both whales and seals, are part of the predators and part of the population base. Sometimes it may seem as if you're walking away from the principle of seeing the ecosystem as a whole. That was a little bit of the background for the question. Is it the impression of the Council of State that we are now paving the way for protection interests and more perfumed conservationists in our management issues? I think that the new marine mammal message from the Government might suggest that we should perhaps ignore the seals and whales as predators in the ecosystem?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1783	As I said in my answer, we get plenty of opportunity to discuss both this and other questions later. I am very aware that the self-sufficiency of the few shots you have is very busy clarifying the conditions that will apply to this year's catch. To put it this way: I am working very actively on that matter now. I am also concerned that we find a scheme that the industry is satisfied with and familiar with, and that it meets the needs they have. As for the slightly more general question of laying flat for environmental interests, I can assure you that at least I don't, in the sense that I'm very aware of both selenium and whale's place in the ecosystem. The implementation of ecosystem-based management, which also involves selvedge and whaling, is clearly established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1790	A tender has now been made for interested vessels to participate in counting sales for research purposes. Some of the problem with the offer was that one had put in as a criterion that one had to have a solder quota on the boat. That would be part of the funding. It is strictly not necessary to make such a requirement that it is part of the financing. Wouldn't it have been natural to look at it a little liberally here, so that in this way you could give these three shots a slightly wider income base to help an industry that is actually on its way to the bottom?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1795	When I realized that there were restrictions attached to this counting project, I contacted the Marine Research Institute to ask why. I have received an answer to that question. The short version is that there is no basis for making such a requirement. The call is extended so that other vessels can also apply for inclusion in this counting project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1803	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘During the Haugesund Conference the other day, representatives from the tau boating companies claimed that the coastal facility’s response in the event of an emergency at sea is random and characterised by an event-to-event action rather than a complete and planned emergency response. Among other things, it was argued that Norway should, as many other countries already have, deploy specially built ropeboats that can also perform other social services. Will the Council of State be willing to assess such enhanced preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1812	The state towing boat stand in North Norway today consists of three vessels conducted from the Coastal Authority’s maritime traffic centre in Vardø according to the risk picture in question. In the autumn of 2009, a towing boat stand was established on Sørland by contract with a commercial operator where the Coast Guard pays for continuous operation and presence. As announced in Prop. 1 S for 2009–2010 for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Coastal Agency has been entrusted with the task of establishing a plan for the establishment of towing boat preparedness in the West. I look at towing boat readiness as a central tool to maintain a high level of maritime safety along the coast and prevent marine accidents. In connection with the assignment I have given to the Coastal Works relating to the establishment of towing boat standby in the West, I have requested that the total coastal preparedness be seen in a coherent manner and assessed on the basis of the traffic pattern in force at all times. Such an overall assessment will help to ensure the continuous development and maintenance of the standby. I am familiar with the recordings that came to the Haugesund Conference, to which the representative Halleraker referred. Specially built ropeboats that can also perform other community service are among the models assessed in the Coastal Towing Equipment Dialogue. I will return to Stortinget with the matter in an appropriate manner when this work is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1821	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State shares the concerns of the Right and is committed to constantly improving oil protection so as to avoid major damage to maritime fauna and the environment. The coastal works report of the 2006 working group stated that the working group recommended: ‘that the vessels to be included as one element in an organised and prepared national towing gear must be specially adapted to the task. Vessels must be equipped with a wide range of equipment, be highly manoeuvrable and the crew must be competent and well trained». More specifically, the Council of State replied in a letter to the Committee, commenting on it also now, that the follow-up to that plan for the West was to be assessed in the Department and that she would return to the Stortinget on the matter. It's been a few months. Is it now possible to make time when she will come to Stortinget with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1835	In respect for the fact that things can take time, I am very careful to guarantee dates for when I present matters. What I can say, is that this is an area I'm particularly concerned about, just to prevent accidents. It's a lot more polite to work with it than to clean up afterwards. So I'm working on this, and I'll get to Stortinget as soon as I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1840	I thank you again for the answer. The said Coastal Works report refers to a number of solutions in other countries, which are heading towards my previous follow-up question and what I referred from that recommendation. In this context, it is concluded and recommended that more service conditions in these countries should be able to be transferred to Norwegian conditions. Will the Council of State in the follow-up to the plan take account of this conclusion of the Working Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1847	I am constantly familiar with discussions and dialogue on this matter that there are solutions in many other countries. That's what we're going to do, and we're going to include that in the further work. At the same time, I record that when there are accidents in other countries, there are actually quite a number of people coming to Norway too, so with knowledge development both ways, I have great faith in that. I am absolutely sure that both wit and competence are well distributed around, and using the best available anywhere, I am a very big fan of. Of course, I'll follow it up in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1852	We then go back to question 6, from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to the Minister for Food and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1858	‘The guiding principle of the Pollution Act is ‘pollutants pay’. The state was the owner of the mining at Sleep in Telemark, which left a lot of radioactive slag, but has not yet wanted to take responsibility for cleaning up. Does the Council of State believe that ‘pollutants pay’ should be the guiding principle even when the State itself is a party?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1865	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1870	Then I want to follow up, and I ask the Council of State: why is it that until now the state has not taken the financial responsibility for cleaning up the state mining at Sleep? I also want to ask the Council of State about something concrete. If you go to Per Strand, who is the department director of the State Radiation Protection Agency, he says as a general principle: ‘Those who are responsible when a company has contaminated are the first company itself.’ It is, of course, commendable that the Council of State answers briefly and concisely ‘yes’ to the question of whether he accepts the polluter-pays principle, even when the State itself is a party. But the follow-up question I hope the council will spend a little more time on. It is: What are the consequences? And: Does it mean – and I hope so, it would be a happy day for the voters in Telemark – that the Council of State now says that the state will take full financial responsibility for the clearing up after the state's own mining operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1877	It was an exemplary concrete question, which is why it was possible to give a concrete answer. The polluter-pays principle, as the representative points out, is a very important environmental law principle reflected in environmental legislation. The aim of the principle is to take responsibility for the pollution that has been caused, but perhaps as much as preventing and preventing environmental damage, because you know that you get the bill yourself. This is one of several key principles of the Government's environmental policy, and of course it must also be followed up when the State is a party. This matter which the representative refers to has been brought to justice by the state. I find it difficult to go far into the elements of the case when the case is actually for legal proceedings. But I am concerned that we find an amicable solution with the Telemark County Municipality, and hope that this matter can be resolved outside the legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1884	I am very pleased that the Council of State acknowledges that this is a political matter, above all. I would like to remind you that there is a unanimous assembly in Telemark – including the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – which has said that Telemark states cannot accept that the state only offers to take half of the bill, when the state has earned all the money on mining, and when the state also owns the mine that has been run there. My questions will be, since the Council of State acknowledges that this is primarily a political matter: Firstly, will the Council of State ensure that the state takes full financial responsibility? It's a political decision that you don't need justice help to make. Secondly, does the Council of State think it was wrong that the State has not previously taken full financial responsibility as a result of the polluter pays principle, thus preventing the case from ending up in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1895	It is quite right that there have been so many disagreements between the parties about the responsibility in the case. Before my time as Minister of Industry, the County Council has received an offer on how this could be done. This was a mine that replaced the owner 40 years ago, so this is a long way back in time. But I just want to say that I hope that, despite the insistence, we still find a negotiated solution, and we will go far to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1900	We then go to question 7, from the representative Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Food and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1906	My question to the Minister for Industry is: ‘The government claims that it is concerned about the environment. It is therefore especially that the government will not contribute, nor even clean up the radioactive slag that lies at Sleep mines in Nome. Telemark County Municipality has now had to sue the State for the disposal of the radioactive waste. Does this mean that the Council of State will not contribute financially to the removal of the dangerous substance and is the Council of State satisfied that two public bodies have to meet in the judiciary instead of the State contributing to the cleaning up of the substance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1915	Let me do the last one first. No, I hope that two public bodies can actually agree, and that public administration levels do not spend a lot of money on lawyers and legal proceedings, so that that money can rather go to good welfare services for the population – or to tax laws, as the representative of Hoksrud may prefer. But you haven't reached an agreement. It is not that we should contribute financially to the removal of the dangerous substance, on the contrary, we have made a very comprehensive offer, an offer that the state can cover up to 50 pst. of the costs. It was denied, we felt that we were sorry. But we still hope that we can find a solution. As I said in my previous answer, we're willing to go far to try to find a solution in courtesy instead of in court.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1922	I'm glad that the Council of State says that you want to find an amicable solution. You can then look at this matter versus some other things. Among other things, «Murmansk» is a wreck that the state has said it takes on the responsibility for cleaning up – and then you get to clean up who is going to pay the bill afterwards. Similarly, it has been said that the State is responsible for cleaning up the «U-864», the submarine that is on the outside of Fedje. Then I had hoped that the Council of State today could have said that the state is now also taking responsibility in the same way for the radioactive waste at Sleep mines in the municipality of Nome, saying that we are doing this. It is the state that has made the money here, it is the state that sold to the county council – and there is a great deal of disagreement about whether one knew about some of the conditions that have arisen in the past. That's also what's at the heart of the battle. I hope that the Council of State will take a good look at the matter now, and try to resolve it amicably.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1929	Once again, I can just sign what Hoksrud finally said, that's exactly what we want to do. We – not we, then, it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, once again, before my time, but well done – took the latest initiative to clarify the cost of cleaning through a report by the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute, which was delivered before Christmas 2009. Afterwards, we have had dialogue with the State's Radiation Protection Agency on what measures might be relevant. I understand very well the local involvement in the matter. I also understand that this is a great task that the county cannot handle alone, of course. That is why, through specific offers, we have also recognised that the State has a responsibility and that the State wants to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1936	So, it's a matter... I'm sorry. Bård Hoksrud has occasion for additional questions, and will get it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1939	Thank you so much for that, President. I hope that what the Council of State is now saying is not that you should come back with the same offer, but that you will actually find an even better solution, and that you take on a greater responsibility. It is also the case that the Council of State's party colleagues here in Stortingen are very concerned about finding a solution to the matter and getting this cleaned up. That is why I also hope that the Council of State can put extra emphasis on solving this. When you know that the state takes responsibility in a number of other areas, I think it's very bad that what you're left with is that in this specific case, with the waste that's here, you don't want to get cleaned up by taking all the responsibility, which I had hoped the council would say today. The consequences, if the county must be involved and contribute, are that it will go beyond other important services that the county municipality of Telemark will provide to its inhabitants, which will then receive less of the offers of the party of the council and others in the government apparatus are very concerned that the county municipality will spend its money on. This will go beyond that offer. That's why I want to challenge the Council of States to help find a good solution to get rid of this radioactive waste and get cleaned up once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1948	I basically agree with the President that the previous answer was really a good conclusion, but I fully accept that Hoksrud had an extra question. I can just repeat that we're going to stretch very far. We can't live with the fact that it's not being cleaned up in this. We fully understand that this is not something the county council can take responsibility for alone, and that the state that used to run also has a joint responsibility. Then we're going to have to go extra, as Hoksrud said, and try to find a solution. But whether it is the state or the county council that pays, it goes off the same welfare fund, but the more important it is that this money should not go to lawyers' fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1955	Then I suppose the last word was said about Sleep mines, at least today. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-03.ana.ud1924e1970	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
