ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e115	The representatives Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, Jenny Klinge and Robert Eriksson, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group for the representative Per Arne Olsen from 25 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Morten Stordalen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e144	Morten Stordalen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e166	On 29 May, it is the International Day of the UN Peacekeepers. That's why it's nice to discuss that very theme. The first peacekeeping operation conducted by the UN was in 1948. Since there have been 63 operations. Today, the UN is involved in 13 peacekeeping operations – a political operation, that is UNAMA in Afghanistan, and also a so-called hybrid action, which is with the African Union in Darfur. There has been a major change in the way the United Nations deals with conflicts. Firstly, there has been a major change in the conflict itself. In the past, the UN was heavily involved in conflicts between states, today we feel that the conflicts are mainly internal to the states, and that there are often civil war-like conditions. Norway is currently relatively modestly represented in UN operations. We have approx. 20 people in the UNMIS operation in Sudan, we have six staff officers and a liaison officer in UNMIC KFOR, we have twelve in Lebanon, UNSO, and we have one at the headquarters of the MONUC operation in Congo. The Government has expressed on several occasions a desire to prioritise UN operations. In this context, you might ask yourself, is there actually a certain distinction between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence? Where the Defence’s strategic concept The potential for action emphasises participation within the framework of the United Nations, which is a relatively broad concept, the Soria Moria Declaration sets out to give priority to participation in UN-led operations. These are two slightly different approaches that I would like to think the Foreign Minister told me a little bit more about. In addition, the previous Foreign Affairs Committee has also discussed this issue in the context of the examination of the international communication. Int. S No 306 for 2008-2009, a unanimous committee states that: ‘The Committee points out that the Government further states that it is a Norwegian objective to increase participation in UN-led operations and, in this respect, will indicate that the Committee considers the objective of any international operation, the basis for international law, and any Norwegian prerequisites for contributing to the operation, as well as interoperability with other contributors, as the essential prerequisites for Norwegian participation.’ Norway is currently lacking practical experience with new UN operations. We have contributed and participated extensively in the development of concepts, but we have – as I mentioned earlier – relatively little experience with the actual operations in recent times. It is today that the UN is what they call ‘overstretched’ in relation to the operations, because there are increasing expectations of the operations, and higher expectations for the protection of the civilian population to a particular extent, which does not make lower but also greater demands on the military contributions. Norway is also ‘overstretched’, because the defence we have today is not dimensioned to participate in many major operations at the same time. We noticed it quite well when Norway was involved three places at the same time, in the Gulf of Aden, in Chad and in Afghanistan. Now two of the assignments have been completed. We're still in Afghanistan. But the defense is delivering today and has also delivered over time really beyond ability. There are complex operations the UN is facing. The question is whether Norway can best meet our desire to participate and contribute to international operations by tracking down the UN-led operations, or whether we should participate through other regional actors. It is becoming increasingly common for the United Nations to use regional actors who carry out but legitimise the operations with mandates from the United Nations. In our context, of course, contributions through NATO are particularly topical. In 2007, a series of seminars and meetings on new integrated operations were held. They were held in many different countries, with Norway partly as an organiser. Some of the things that came out, which I think are interesting to include in the debate on the UN peacekeeping operations and the context in which they are, are that according to the panels that put and discussed these matters there, it seems to be a fragmented and less flexible UN system. There is a lot of bureaucracy, which makes operations difficult to deal with. It is partly dysfunctional financing mechanisms and, in fact, a total lack of an overall financing mechanism. There is a lack of flexibility in strength and a lack of planning and command control capacity, plus a low flexibility in strength generation tools. This makes it of course relevant and interesting to discuss whether Norway's participation should primarily be through regional actors where we also have security policy interests, or whether we should strive to contribute more directly to UN operations. There is a major imbalance in the United Nations operations today. It is five major contributing countries – Nepal, Bangladesh, India, Nigeria and Pakistan – that account for a large proportion of the 122 000 soldiers in the United Nations system today, and it is the five major economic contributors – the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany and France. The imbalance consists of the number of troops and the device of the troops, but it also consists of who determines the mandates. In my opinion, this is a pretty interesting point. It is true that the five major financial contributors also largely shape the mandates. But there are other countries that carry out the operations on the ground. What has been shown is that the mandates of the Security Council are often quite clear, but then some of the mandates are cut down on the ground and down to the operational level, thus weakening the mandates. It now appears that the countries contributing to the troops will also participate more in the design of their mandates, with the risk that the mandates will initially weaken. These are great expectations for the UN and for UN operations. I am in the interpellation text and was also initially involved in some of the expectation pressures that meet the UN. One is to participate more and more places; the other is to participate more and more strongly; the third is to participate with a different protection than before. Clearly, the complexity of the conflicts is increasing, and the United Nations' ability to do something effectively with it does not seem to increase as much and as quickly as the complexity of the conflicts. It is of course interesting from a Norwegian point of view to assess how we can best contribute. Everyone here in the Chamber is concerned that Norway's operations, if any, are to be included, are to be anchored by international law, as well as by a UN anchoring. This does not necessarily mean that we should always contribute directly through UN operations, but perhaps often through operations that have a UN mandate, which is not necessarily UN-led. It is interesting to hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks about the challenges now facing Norway. There is also, as I mention in the interpellation text, a point that one sees a fragmentation between the various organisations that are engaged in these kinds of international operations. On the one hand, it is seen that the UN is increasingly linked to regional actors and is creating so-called hybrid actions, where they are involved with others, or where they are involved, for example. has more political influence on the action than a military. At the same time, it can be seen that very many of the more complex and difficult operations, especially in Africa, there are few other actors taking place, and the UN remains largely responsible for these operations. The question is how to achieve a balance here that allows countries that want to contribute, but perhaps through channels other than just through UN-led operations, to also contribute to these conflicts, in order to balance the current imbalance, both in the United Nations system and in the international system, in terms of peace and stabilisation operations. My question and my challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is how Norway meets the changed assumptions, the changed patterns of operations, the changed complex conflicts that are now facing Norway and other countries, both under the UN and outside, to provide a safer, more peaceful and more stable world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e201	The interpellant addresses important and fundamental issues related to a subject area that has occupied Norway for many years. I thank you for that. It is therefore a question of supporting UN peace operations, which is one of the most important and demanding and complex tasks of the United Nations. We clearly see – and we may regret it – that the UN's efforts in this area are necessary. 123 000 people are currently serving in 15 UN-led operations. That's the highest number of people ever. It can say something about great trust in the UN, but also something about the need for action, and doesn't necessarily say anything about the UN doing the job as the United Nations should do. For the government, it is important that the UN succeeds as a peacekeeping force for three main reasons: firstly, in the interests of the population of the countries in which the operations take place, secondly, in terms of regional and global stability and security, and thirdly, in view of the overall legitimacy and credibility of the UN. As the interpellant points out, UN operations have become more complex. It's an important recognition that we have to base. This means that we cannot have the same approach in all contexts as before, and that the method of participation and support must be constantly updated. We know the backside: Few events have been so devastating to the United Nations credibility as the tragedies in Rwanda and Bosnia. At the same time, they were a waker who contributed to several of the changes that the interpellant addresses, which are absolutely central to the United Nations' ability to deal with today's conflicts. An important aspect of today's conflicts in the world must be underlined, namely that the majority of these conflicts are internal. They are characterised by a very difficult security situation, often with a fallen or weak state, many warring parties and brutal violence against the civilian population. As a result, operations have become increasingly focused on the protection of civilians, which is a very demanding and complex task. It requires robust and well-qualified military forces and police forces, cooperation with national authorities, with civil society organisations and the United Nations, as well as a well-run peace process – i.e. parties actively involved in a peace process, are less well served to undermine this process through an attack on the civilian population. So there's a lot of work to vote for each of the two sides to work. Overall, we can say that today's conflicts make greater demands on the United Nations as an active and comprehensive promoter of lasting peace than the traditional role of a more passively monitoring of a ceasefire or peace agreement between two countries, as we have had a lot of experience in participating in. Continuous operations are now part of a broader peace-building effort. Therefore, they must be multidimensional with efforts in a broad area. This requires a comprehensive and integrated approach with requirements for cooperation and coordination between all actors in the field, as I mentioned. The multidimensional means that the civil components of the operations are becoming increasingly important. Norway has increasingly contributed to supporting UN civil peace operations, including: through participation with police and human rights observers, and support for capacity building, in particular in African countries. I can present here the Training for Peace programme, under the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, in cooperation with African organisations, which have contributed to training, among others. 1,000 African police to Darfur. So we know this: civil-military cooperation is challenging. It requires mutual understanding and respect for each other's roles, and it imposes other requirements for the training of personnel. Norway has helped to develop this multidimensional integrated approach that underpins current UN operations. We have also learned that the question of which elements to include in the mandates is politically controversial. Countries in the south are sceptical about measures that are perceived to break national sovereignty. These include, in particular, measures to protect civilians and a more robust approach to the implementation of mandates. Two relationships are important here. Firstly, the UN peace operations are largely carried out in the south. Secondly, countries in the south are the main contributors to the operations in the number of uniformed personnel, as the interpellant correctly pointed out. They can therefore feel frustrated by the crucial role played by the Security Council in the design of the operational mandates. They may find it unreasonable that several of the permanent members of the Council who formulate the mandates only make limited contributions with military personnel. Close dialogue between the Security Council and personnel contributing countries is therefore important to support the legitimacy of mandates, but also to ensure that mandates are as realistic as possible. Last year, France and the United Kingdom took an initiative to strengthen this dialogue — as supported by Norway. It gives countries not in the Council better access to the decision-making process. The UN Secretariat is also a self-written party to this process. If the UN is to succeed, there must also be a good link between mandates and resources made available. One of the worst things that can happen is that this relationship fails. Furthermore, the UN must succeed in mobilising relevant resources from the Member States. It requires both a solid UN apparatus and, not least, the will of the Member States to contribute. The Government is concerned that the UN’s unique global mandate is reflected in the composition of the personnel in the operations. Norwegian participation is an important objective of our UN effort. In recent years, we have made material contributions on several occasions. We participated with four MTBs in UNIFIL in Lebanon in 2006-2007. We set up an engineering contribution for Darfur together with Sweden and Denmark, a costly and very demanding operation. That the force was not deployed was due to resistance from the regime in Khartoum, which we know about. And we have just participated with a significant contribution to the operation in Chad. We are seeking to motivate other Western countries to participate more actively under UN leadership. However, I would like to point out, as an input to the debate, a couple of aspects to nuance the notion of bias in participation: Firstly, many of the countries that contribute heavily to funding, but with a limited number of personnel involved in UN-led efforts, are all the more actively involved in operations under the auspices of other organisations, as the inter-pellant was also involved. Today, NATO-led efforts in Afghanistan are the main ones, where Norway participates significantly, both in absolute terms and in particular in relation to our size. These are also UN mandated operations and part of the worksharing between the UN and regional organisations. Secondly, the United Nations system of reimbursement for participation in operations is based on global rates, which are naturally more favourable for countries with low cost levels. Thus, participation in such operations is significantly more expensive for a high-cost country such as Norway. Our net costs are about 1.5 million. kr per. person per person years. Therefore, we need to ask questions about how we can best contribute. Sending their own people – who in complex situations also require recruiting expertise from private businesses – is expensive and cannot be the only way we measure our contributions. The objective of global participation is not only a question of legitimacy but also of real resource needs. Countries in the south often cannot provide the expertise of the United Nations in military terms, such as engineers, liaison and intelligence. The importance of Western countries setting up such support capacities was recently underlined by the head of the UN Peace Department. This focus is positive with Norwegian eyes, as it is precisely support capacities we hope to be able to offer the UN for new military efforts. At the same time, we have learned that there is a need to deal with, for example: an engineering element, not mobilising on short notice. We do not have a standing strength for such purposes. Recruitment and training time — a process that can take several months. Interpellant asks whether the UN is ‘forced’ to take responsibility for the most complex conflicts. That's a good question, but I don't know if 'force' is the right term. But the reality is that the UN has a particularly heavy responsibility in Africa. Seven of the fifteen ongoing operations are on the African continent, but in personnel they represent more than 75 pst. of the total UN resource effort. Here, however, we see a certain movement: the African Union is taking greater responsibility. The European Union has had an active military role in several countries, at the latest in Chad. NATO assists AU with personnel transport in Somalia, as they used to do in Darfur. We support increased contact and coordination between the different organisations. The aim must be to develop an effective peace and security architecture, in which the UN, by virtue of its unique instrument and global mandate, will continue to play a leading role. The interpellant then asks whether the UN succeeds in creating lasting peace and stability through the operations — and that is an important question, where it is often not possible to provide definitive answers. The UN can provide room for political dialogue between conflicting parties, prevent conflicts from spreading and contribute to civil security. The UN also undertakes to ensure access to humanitarian response. At the same time, we know that UN peace operations never take place in a vacuum. If the UN is to succeed, it must be part of a broader peace-building commitment. It must be in close cooperation with other international actors, and not least be firmly anchored by national authorities. The significance of such national anchorages may not be exaggerated. In recent years, we have seen many examples of resistance to the UN presence. I've already mentioned Darfur. Chad has asked the UN to complete the military part of the operation there. And the President of the Congo has expressed the desire for the UN to go out in 2011, despite the fact that significant tasks remain. This resistance gives rise to a discussion about the peace operation concept. Perhaps we need to consider the more active use of other instruments, including political dialogue, in order to create sustainable peace. The UN is an organisation owned by the Member States and never gets better than what we as a Member State do. In order for the UN to succeed, the Member States must contribute. We're busy taking this commitment seriously. Participation in operations is part of the answer. At the same time, we need to recognise that our human resources are limited. Therefore, the government also attaches great importance to contributing to the development of the UN's overall peace operational capability, through cooperation with countries in the south on capacity building and with support for the reform of the peace operation apparatus. Access to competent personnel and well-functioning organisation are essential to enable the UN to make the best possible contribution to creating lasting peace and stability through operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e268	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I think there are many interesting aspects that are drawn up. To begin with with, one of the aspects that is being drawn up, and one of the features of the new integrated operations, namely a clearer interaction and coordination not only civil-military but also civil: at the conference to which I so far referred in my main speech, one of the panel discussions was the United Nations approach to these integrated operations and the challenges it was. Some key challenges were highlighted. I mentioned some of them in my main post. But another point that was raised was precisely the role and presence of humanitarian actors, because their presence is not necessarily perceived as neutral or impartial as long as they are to contribute to emphasising Western values, on which the panel focused. They used as an example that girls' schools in Afghanistan are not a typical politically neutral project, depending on whether it can work like that on our part. It poses some challenges in terms of how we deal with it, how we actually contribute to improving coordination, both civil-military and civil. And that's important. For these integrated operations to succeed, all stages must be present. It doesn't keep up with a military effort. It doesn't keep up with civil effort. There has to be a long-term development. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also concerned with the question of the frustration that often occurs with the countries contributing to the troops versus those who decide on the mandates and pay for the operations. It is, as I was also in my main post, an ongoing – it seems – growing frustration that you are now trying to cancel to some extent. But it's clear that as long as you maintain the bias that lies in the economy here, I think you're going to see something of the same pattern in the future. When the rate used per Soldiers in operations have been stuck to $1,028 in the last eight years, it is clear that some countries are making money to send soldiers, because a soldier does not cost any more — you just make money on it — while for other countries, such as the United States. Norway, as the Foreign Minister quite rightly points out, costs much more to have a soldier in the UN service. Thus, the imbalance will be maintained in a way. In the end, I just want to repeat the question I had. I should like to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs signifying a little bit more about the difference that appears to be in the Ministry of Defence at the heart of the strategic concept of work, namely that participation within the framework of the United Nations, which is a quite broad concept, and the clear clarification of the Soria Moria Declaration that priority should be given to participation in UN-led operations. It's possible that there's no distinction, but it's at least, as I read it, possible to experience a distinction here. If so, what does the government mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e279	Let me do the last one first. It's, as I see it, no distinction in politics and goals. I, who have worked closely with the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence for four years, almost five years, have experienced them as a powerful driving force to implement Norwegian participation in line with the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. They have also succeeded – as I mentioned, Lebanon. I witnessed the very strong mobilization that was for Darfur – demanding, costly, very difficult political. And it wasn't on us. Now there is the implementation of the hospital in Chad. The defence is expressed in the way they do, but it is consistent with the objectives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I feel they've been playing teams. But at the same time, as I said in my post, it concerns one of the points that the interpellant raises, that it's probably not a either-or, that we're either in the United Nations, or that we're supporting operations in the form of regional organisations. If we look at Norway today, we do both. Clearly, the involvement in Afghanistan is so heavy and is seizing so much resources that it has an impact on the resource situation on the personnel side in relation to what we can do in purely UN-led operations. At the same time, I would like to say that it is only NATO that can carry out the type of operation that is taking place in Afghanistan, which is also taking place under UN mandate, which has been set up for it. So we have to figure out a role where you can do both of these things, not either-- or. The question of humanitarian organisations has been debated several times, and the representative will recognise my view that we should respect humanitarian space. This means that organisations will be able to carry out their mandates without compromising their political mandates. Whether or not girls' schools are a political mandate needs to be discussed. I would like to argue that it is so in line with UN principles, universal human rights principles, that I believe that humanitarian organisations can do well to ensure that it is not serving the cause of one party. So the representative picks up the fact that someone serves to send soldiers, others don't. Yes, this kind of reality in the world is also occurring here, as in all areas of international society. It raises the question, how do we best contribute? During my visit to India a few months ago, I discussed with the Indian authorities the possibility that Norway can support training and higher levels of competence at Indian training centres of UN personnel, not only from India, but also from other countries. Clearly, it is more to be found to support that type of activity in India than to go to Norway. It is an expression that we need to review the way in which we enable the United Nations to carry out its mandates, increase the quality of its staff, that is, more than 120 000 today, and that the answer is not always that a Norwegian soldier in a United Nations operation is the way Norway contributes. We saw the costs of the hospital in Chad. It was a good project, but at the same time it was a wake-up in relation to where we get the best back for the resources we put in to live up to the United Nations mandates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e290	Actually, we are four days too early, because – as the interpellant also noted – it is 29 May that is the International Day of the United Nations Peacekeeping Forces. But it's okay that the Storting is sometimes too early! Norway has played an active role in the UN peace process throughout the post-war period and is one of the largest financial contributors in the United Nations. More than 60,000 Northmen have been involved in peace operations under the UN regime. In 1949, over 60 years ago, five Norwegian officers were sent to Kashmir to monitor the ceasefire between India and Pakistan. It was Norway's first peacekeeping effort in the UN. Since then, there have been several contributions, and the largest Norwegian contributions to UN peacekeeping operations have been in the Middle East, and especially in UNIFIL in Lebanon. Norwegian soldiers and officers who have contributed and contribute, in UN operations and in other international operations, deserve honor and recognition. These women and men act on behalf of Norway and the international community. That's the way it says respect. The UN shall have overall responsibility for international peace and security, and the UN Charter gives the UN and the UN Security Council responsibility for undertaking collective action where required. International peace operations are one of several instruments available to the UN — sometimes the most important and most effective instrument. The government and the majority of the population – perhaps a unanimous increase – aim to increase Norwegian civil and military participation in the UN peacekeeping work. Let me add that Norway also supports the UN peace operation in other ways, including: by providing financial support to ensure gender perspective in planning and carrying out the operations, and in preventing and managing sexual abuse and protecting vulnerable groups. This is a very important contribution. From the first operation in 1948, the UN peace operations have evolved from pure military peacekeeping operations to increasingly complex peace-building operations, including the inter-pellant and foreign minister. It's no longer that conflicts are necessarily between countries, as one in the past saw. Those involved in previous UN operations often had the task of monitoring a disputed national border or a demilitarised zone. Today, the picture is more complicated. Many of today's conflicts are internal conflicts. It puts the UN and the international community to new tests. Future international operations will therefore need to have broader mandates, including a number of tasks, in addition to traditional military activities. Therefore, operations become heavy and demanding, and therefore also very costly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the excellent Norwegian contribution in Chad. I am sure that when we are properly evaluated – they have probably recently come home, or are on their way home – we will, among other things. conclude that the contribution was very good, but it was heavy, it was demanding, and it was very expensive. Norway should contribute more to UN-led operations; let us make it clear. At the same time, however, we must at all times consider how we can best contribute to supporting the UN peace process, both financially and in terms of personnel. Sometimes it will be to hire Norwegian soldiers and officers light blue berry and helmets, sometimes it will be with other kinds of contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e311	It's an important topic that the interpellant addresses. In our opinion, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was quite right about it when he talks about a willingness to review the various issues raised by UN operations, and not least Norwegian participation, and how Norwegian participation can be relevant and perhaps more forward-looking than has been the case so far. What types of operations Norway is going to take part in is, which has also been mentioned by us, not a either-or-question; it is a question that needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis. The term of office is important. And the historical lesson you can take with you after many years of international operations, not least UN operations, is that where the mandates have not been precise and good, the operations have not delivered either. It must be a pragmatic approach. Historically, there has been a focus on assisting countries or regions from a conflict to negotiated peace, and so on to a legitimate system of governance. Now we're talking about tasks that are more aggressive in their form, and tasks that too often don't have a parallel political process. And without such a political process, the possibilities of success are also smaller. Now there's nothing special about UN operations; it can occur in any kind of operation. So I think it makes sense to go back and look at all the United Nations missions that are active – take Cyprus and Western Sahara, for example. Is it true in 2010 that the UN is present in Cyprus? Does it contribute to resolving the conflict, or does it contribute to preventing the parties from taking the final steps to resolve the conflict? The parties contributing part of the amount in respect of the costs of the operation, but if the parties so request an international presence – which may be reasonable – they should also bear the costs of such an operation. The solutions are missing, but the operations are hanging again, and there's probably some of the problem. If you look at Darfur, there was probably some of the problem there that you couldn't have clear goals for success, and there's no strategy to get out. Although most will agree that the international forces have probably contributed to preventing abuse in Darfur, there has been no such thing as getting what you want. And the relationship between other parts of the international community – I think of the International Criminal Court – is something that makes the whole situation complex and very demanding. I'm not saying that we all have answers to that, I just think you should be aware of the scale and the complex situation that arises. Then the representative Myrli was in the difficult aspects of such operations, such as child abuse, which unfortunately has been documented in too many conflicts. I think it is important to signal from the Member States, from the participating countries, and not least from the United Nations that all such abuses should be detected, whether they be children or others. You have to punish those involved, and you shouldn't neglect those situations. The same applies to fraud involving UN personnel. It also needs to be addressed in a credible way, in a way that provides trust, and in a way that prevents the population from turning towards a presence of the UN. There is no positive perception for anyone when there are UN soldiers that pose the problem, and not the solution to the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e328	It is an important interpellation that is being addressed today, but it may not be the theme most discussed in the Storting. When you draw the conclusions after every period you've been through, these themes have had a little too little focus. We're actually talking about one of the biggest economic posts on our state budget. In fact, the United Nations has been in a situation where it has recently been exposed to searchlights, cf. the last report that has been discussed at the UN as an aid organisation. Norway is channelling between 8 and 9 billion. kr through the system. There is little doubt that Norway in this area has put lasting traces of itself around the world, as a peacemaker, as an assistant, and as a nation that has a real heart rate for the UN as an organization to have the status, authority and authority that we all want. But as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the UN is not going to be stronger than the Member States are able to do it. And it is obvious that when an institution has an operating budget of approx. A quarter of the Norwegian state budget, it says quite a lot about the United Nations' ability to take on the role that we all might want. There is little doubt that the world community has a responsibility – the turmoil of a place in the world has very, very often a contagious effect and can contribute to the spread of unrest. And that's what this interpolation takes up. I think it sounds right, as the Foreign Minister makes clear in connection with the distinction that the inter-pellant has had to make, that we should do both – we should participate both through the UN mandate and through actors that carry out work for the UN through and through the UN mandate. The challenge in the future will be both the UN’s own capacity and – on the other hand – the Norwegian capacity to be a strong contributor. There is little doubt that in a situation where contributions to the UN are likely to decrease, as a result of the financial crisis, etc., we will at the same time see that not only Norway, but also other countries militaryly may no longer have the same ability as before to contribute. That, I think, is a very important point in this debate. How do we get ourselves the capacity to do the job that our ambitions call for, and how do the United Nations make it politically able to do the job that they are going to do on behalf of those who contribute and who are going to be the main actors? Because there is no doubt that the need for a strong UN, which can at least be politically able to adopt the necessary mandates for action, will be there on an increasing scale. At all events, it is the strength and ability of the United Nations that is at issue today, and I also believe that the Norwegian Government has an obligation, as one of the best contributors, including economic ones, to ensure that the reforms that need to be implemented in the United Nations system are implemented. Finally, you have to take that discussion in your home country about how we're going to be able to have the capacity to step in these actions, if we want to participate, unless we just have the ambition to be a financial contributor. Today, Norwegian defence is not able to undertake any more and bigger tasks than we are already involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e343	Let me first stop for a moment at the image that we may all too often draw in a discussion like this about wars and conflicts, that before there was war between states, and now there is war before states. At least that's only partially right. It is quite right that during the Cold War it was much more common that there was war between states, and that in the traditional sense there have been very few wars between states in recent years. On the other hand, there is much more debateable about the new wars, which are sometimes referred to as – i.e. civil wars, internal wars – especially new ones. On the contrary, a number of internal conflicts – civil wars and so on – are the norm in international policy over a long period of time. What may be new, however, is that they take international note in a completely different way, for example. because there are fewer regular wars between states, but not least because the space for international policy and therefore for foreign policy has been extended to be able to engage in conflicts within states – civil wars. Rather, we have a range of what can be called a chosen or organized conflict that goes from regular wars through civil wars to the type of organized use of military power in connection with crime, etc. to the killing and other use of power, and where the political space of international policy has gradually expanded downwards in that chain. That means I'm very positive. Some might say that this has the most academic interest, but what has academic interest should often have more interest than it gets, even beyond the academia. This is such a question, because it is the kind of conflict we often discuss and stick to, and also to an increasing extent in international policy, and therefore we also have to do so in Norwegian foreign policy. So first of all, I believe that the discussion of participation within the framework of the UN or participation in UN-led operations is two different levels in the same matter. All Norwegian military participation in the years ahead should be within the framework of a UN mandate, or otherwise sanctioned, and at the same time within it, it is important that we participate more fully in UN-led operations. I mean personally, and SV thinks it's very important for several reasons – firstly because we have competent military forces that can make significant contributions to multi-national units in some of the most complex conflicts, such as: The interpellant was in, and secondly, because if we're going to do it in Norway over time, we have to keep up the competence, maybe, to do it, and not for long periods of time, so that the competence is built into Norwegian military forces. And thirdly, it's politically important for us to give that signal, and be a contributor internationally. That is why it has been important for us to have done it more in recent years than in any year before, for example. now has a contribution in Chad, but we also need a plan to make it happen in the years to come. That's why I'm also happy that the government announces a clear focus on that in the years to come. Then it's early to learn a lot of lessons and consequences from the operations we've had in the last few years, but what has been said in the debate, I also agree with: it needs to be wide-ranging in the perspective of participation in the operation, and a long-term perspective is extremely important. There is a great deal to suggest that there should be a political process at the same time, and of course a mandate that is proportionate to the conflict. But I also want to emphasise good cooperation, a clear common direction between the different actors – political, military, civil – as part of a conflict. In the setting of the Storting Communication on Social Security, which was discussed in Stortinget, the Committee says: ‘The Committee considers that the Government should consider developing permanent consultation mechanisms that include security policy, military, legal and development policy views. Norwegian voluntary and humanitarian organisations should be included in these mechanisms.’» I believe that in the future it is important to have a common direction and that different actors should contribute to the wide range of operations, in order to be successful. Finally, I just want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important question, and the Foreign Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e363	Norway and the Norwegian United Nations Delegation are and have been very involved in the development of the United Nations Integrated Operation Strategy. Norway has promoted increased civil protection and Norway is a significant financial contributor to the UN. That's good. There are no other organisations in the world that can compare with the UN, and therefore no one else is equally important. All nations have a place, and for a small nation like Norway, the international law-based world order is the only dangerous road. In the Central Party, we therefore think it is unfortunate to build up parallel structures, because in sum, it weakens the ability of the United Nations to be effective contributors to conflict resolution. Resources used via other channels usually mean fewer resources to the UN. Often they are the same as for example. in its time was positive for war participation in Iraq, which points out weaknesses each time the UN fails. Both at home and outside, it's like this. I am at least convinced that if Norway not only laid down significant resources in Afghanistan but also in Iraq, our contribution to the UN would have been further weakened, not to mention the contribution we would have made to a weakening of international law and Norway's place in history books. I know this is a little bit side by side with today's theme, but the UN must be a priority for the world community if the UN's big toolbox is to be used. The UN is now taking on stronger and more complex and demanding tasks than the traditional peace operations normally entailed. At the same time, the UN has a unique instrument that separates the organisation from military actors. While NATO is struggling to find the form – and head and tail – of its cooperation with civil society, the UN has always had a humanitarian/civil and military branch. A Special Representative shall lead the operations of the United Nations and shall be civilly superior to both military and civil reconstruction. Then I see – as it also seems that Eriksen Soreide has done – that the research environment of the FFI and others is concerned that Norway has not been particularly involved in UN operations since the way the United Nations operates has changed significantly since the late 1990s. I regret that Norway has not been able to participate to an even greater extent in UN operations and share the concern that our officers and soldiers do not have sufficiently up-to-date knowledge of the UN. That is why I believe that Norway, when the time for dwindling in Afghanistan comes, must immediately give the UN a higher priority again. At the same time, I believe that both scientists and politicians should listen to the defence when they describe the considerable experience they have gained in Afghanistan. That experience is highly relevant also in integrated UN operations. At the right, however, the concerns of the research communities about the challenges created by the new integrated operations are less relevant to the traditional understanding of the civil-military concept, and the widening of the boundaries between military and civil resources. Last year’s report NUPI published on Norway’s efforts to achieve civil-military coordination in Afghanistan highlighted the importance for authorities of finding good solutions to make the humanitarian part of the mission as impartial and independent as possible. The biggest example of the opposite is the American Hearts and Minds principle, where the military buys support through hand-to-hand payments. But the gray zones are many, and the figures as well. In Norway, the former head of defence has stated that there is nothing to do with aid organisations that do not want to register for the defence in Afghanistan. I am glad that the sitting government has never given in to these attitudes. Wide experience from Afghanistan shows that military personnel carrying out — or commanding — civil tasks make it worse than civilians with competence in the field, leading to more short-termity. The local population shall be able to be confident that someone acts impartially in the conflict. It is the only way to ensure a form of civil security in developing countries. And stable development over time is not achieved if short-term political and military assessments of what serves us best at the moment are to be guidelines, rather than local people's own wishes and priorities. I would therefore like the Right more to end up around the Nordic and international law tradition and not depending on short-term solutions that only look good at the moment, but have not proved to be solid over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e384	A strong UN is of great importance to work for peace in the world and to safeguard the interests of a small country such as Norway. Peace operations in countries affected by conflict are particularly important in order to ensure unstable peace or stop dangerous developments towards war and to protect the civilian population in conflict situations. Norway was therefore one of the earliest participants in UN operations, with several speakers in it, and from the late 1940s to the 1990s we were heavily involved in several operations. For various reasons, this has changed in recent years, with a greater focus on operations that have had a United Nations mandate but have been carried out by others, for example: NATO. The Christian People's Party has taken part in the decisions that have marked the development of Norwegian contributions to foreign operations in those years. But we have been inconvenient about the signal Norway is sending by so little being represented in the UN's own operations. Based on a strong desire to contribute to such operations in Africa, efforts were made to contribute to Darfur. Because of the resistance of the Sudanese authorities, this was not known. We were therefore pleased that Norway could participate in Chad, in an operation related to the same conflict. The Chad operation has been a success. It has provided decisive security for refugees and internally displaced persons in the country. Divicious Norwegian women and men who contributed with a well-dwelling team and a field hospital were important contributions to the ability of the force to get in place and function as it should. The operation is now inconclusive, after the field hospital was withdrawn a few weeks ago. Countries such as Ireland and Finland withdraw their forces because there is no longer a field hospital in Chad. There are indications that the operation is raking, with potentially serious consequences for the refugees to be protected by the operation. Norwegian participation in UN operations is important for many reasons. We have a moral responsibility as one of the world's richest countries to contribute to the work of securing fundamental human rights in conflict situations. I think it's very bad for Norway when leading representatives say it's too expensive to be involved in UN operations. Without its own participation or experience in such operations, Norway is easily losing influence in the debates within the UN around the operations. There are now more UN operations in Africa than ever before, but operations are almost without contributions from Western countries. It is good that Africa itself takes responsibility, but the slogan «African solutions to African problems» can quickly become an excuse and a sleep cushion. While there were 8 000 African UN soldiers in 2000, there were 37 000. Many of them are highly skilled and provide help at a much lower price than many others are able to, but it is still a problem that they often have less capacity and much less equipment than Western countries. Norway does not have the opportunity to participate with forces of a size that will make a real difference in order to solve the huge capacity problems of the United Nations. However, we can play an important role by providing targeted capacity-building measures. We can make it possible for others to participate and improve their chances of success. In the Christian People's Party we were pleased that the government of Soria Moria I promised to ‘increase participation civilly and militarily in UN operations’. And we were encouraged that Soria Moria II said that the government will ‘prioritize participation in UN-led peace operations’. But at the last count in April, Norway had only 179 people outsourced in UN operations. When the 120 who participated in Chad are now pulled out, we will be down to a level that is even lower than when this government joined. And I haven't heard anything in the debate today that indicates that the government has great ambitions to achieve this goal in Soria Moria II. In comparison, we have approx. 700 soldiers in Afghanistan. The Christian People's Party fully supports Norway's NATO exposure in Afghanistan, but there is still reason to ask government priorities. There is little doubt that when the government replied to Ban Ki-moon’s request to extend the mission in Chad, the decision was largely justified for economic reasons. It seems obvious that when budgetary considerations impose priorities — and this is necessary from time to time — it is easy for the United Nations and Africa to lose. It is not a favourable picture of Norway. The Christian People's Party calls for the will for a real prioritisation of the UN, in line with the government's own promises. With the exception of the efforts mentioned here in the debate, it is now 12 years since the last time Norway contributed with troops to a UN operation with blue helmets, and that is 17 years since we last participated in Africa. There is reason to ask when the government sees that Norway will again be ready to contribute to such an operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e406	This debate confirms the broad political impetus it is in Norway to support the UN peacekeeping operations. And I noticed that the spokesperson of the Advance Party in his post had no sound bottom of what is usually heard from the party, that is, a fundamental scepticism of the UN. It's a pleasure. Since the first UN operations 60 years ago, some 60,000 Northmen have served in peacekeeping operations. We have a lot and a lot of people to be proud of, as Sverre Myrli's representative stressed, and we have nothing to be ashamed of, even when it comes to direct participation. Today we have Norwegian contributions in 8 of the 15 ongoing UN operations, but the scope will be more limited when the operation in Chad ends. With regard to the representative Højbrätten mentioned, it may not have been an economic issue in the first place, but training the crews who might have to man this in an extension would have been more than demanding. We were ready for action with an engineering contribution in Darfur, along with Sweden and Denmark, whose regime in Khartoum had not stopped it. Our most extensive participation has been in the Middle East. The thinking behind UN peace operations is the recognition of strong international responsibility for resolving conflicts. Most of the United Nations conflicts are internal conflicts. It demands that the UN be wanted by the authorities of the country, and preferably by the parties in a conflict. However, when states fail their own population, it is also opened up for the international community to intervene in the territory of countries in order to protect individuals from state abuse or from non-governmental militias and groupings in countries characterized by civil war and disintegration. It happened for the first time during the humanitarian operation to protect Iraqi Kurds in the weeks following the first Gulf war. In 1994, the shaking Rwandan tradidate contributed to the development of a new state legitimisation principle: if the international community is to respect the borders of the state, the state must meet all the basic needs of its citizens. The international community has a responsibility to protect people whose sovereignty cannot be brought to an end. This provides a basis for far more demanding operations than the earlier, more traditional UN missions. Should the UN be able to fulfil this role, not only large capacity is required, but more elements are also required to play together. It is the Member States that have to deal with – either directly or through regional organisations, such as NATO or the EU. After all, this need lies behind the EU's establishment of the cry-out forces, where Norway also contributes, in a set-up with Sweden and Finland. The last Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, welcomed the EU's response forces because it would also give the UN greater capacity or relief in some conflict areas, where the EU could take responsibility for the operation in the field. It is clear from the debate that Norway’s willingness to do so at the request of the United Nations is great. But we have to have something to set up with. We cannot, on the one hand, slim down the defense and, on the other hand, have a lot of resources at the disposal of the United Nations. Interpellant raised the question of whether we should participate directly or through regional bodies – for our part NATO, but also through the EU's call-out force. I think the answer should be both – and, based on what is most appropriate in relation to the contributions we can make in the current operation, and on the division of labour that may arise between the United Nations and relevant regional organisations. The key is the capacity to participate and plan for it. Maybe we should set up some kind of a power well, where we could maybe go outside of the Defence Forces. Perhaps one possibility could be that the Home Guards could contribute to missions that are not so very sharp. And we need civilian components – police, justice and perhaps volunteers – that can be trained and prepared, from health care, lawyers and other relevant professional groups. The interpellant asks if the UN succeeds in creating lasting peace. Well, I assume that it will vary from conflict to conflict, but what is absolutely fundamental is that if you want to succeed, it must be a basis for that in the conflict that is. The parties would have to find a solution. If not, it's impossible for outsiders. The experience is that you can fight the warriors of others, but you can never win the warriors of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e432	First I have to rectify something that must be a misunderstanding, or at least a very special claim from Trygve Battle Violence Vedum. That the Right shouldn't be interested in following international law with regard to which operations we support and do not support is a claim that, in my opinion, falls on its own unfairness, and which I believe most people in the Chamber here and outside understand of course does not lead to correctness. The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, wanted us to have more of the UN-led operations with Norwegian participation. The question is, what effect does the representative draw from it? I think the answer was very well presented by the last speaker, the representative Svein Roald Hansen. He says we can't continue to slim down the defense while we have expectations that we will contribute more directly to UN-led operations. It's a very good expression, and I should like to see that it was also reflected in government policy. Then to the representative Morten Højlund. I think he is interested in a very interesting point when he says that many of the mandates we have today can be ripe for a reassessment. Will the UN continue to be in the places you have chosen to operate? Of course, there's also something to do with whether you succeed in creating lasting peace and stability even after you pull out. One thing is to be able to maintain it while you're there, another thing is whether there's a basis for continuing it after you get out. So one last thing, which also goes to the representative Tryve Battle Violence Vedum: he thinks that the Right should be little concerned with the challenges of humanitarian space. Well, it's not just the Right that is. I quoted from a panel that discussed this when the Ministry of Defence organized a conference. They were concerned with what I then quoted – the role and presence, because the presence of humanitarian actors is not necessarily perceived as neutral or impartial when implementing what the panel calls ‘western values’, and they use themselves as girls schools in Afghanistan. The conclusion of the panel is as follows: the UN needs to get its priorities in place in order for us to succeed in these operations. It is possible for the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, to read on the pages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the UN’s so-called ‘integrated multidimensional operations’ represents a unique approach, where the UN coordinates military, humanitarian and developmental efforts. That's absolutely right. It underlined the Minister for Foreign Affairs in an intervention he made at this conference I referred to, in 2007, where he says that the balance between maintaining a humanitarian space in a conflict situation with the need for security is a absolutely necessary need for coordination, and that must and can be successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e443	First of all, I would like to say that this debate shows something that is gratifying, namely that there is a good analysis and common understanding among the parties on the United Kingdom about the importance of the United Nations and our support for UN peacekeeping operations. I would also like to join the representative of Myrlis in stressing the honour and honour of those who serve for the United Nations and wearing the UN uniform under the UN mandate. To the representative Højbråten I would say that I do not want to construct unnecessary disagreements here. But I feel that since 2005, we have been making strong contributions to the UN. So the fact that it's been 12 years since we've had people with UN uniform – if I understood him correctly – can't quite vote when we've had people both in Chad and UNIFIL on board the Navy's ships. Nor is it right – I would say from this pulpit – that the operation in Chad is being concluded or raked because Norway is pulling out this field hospital that has been notified of the plan, what we offered when we went in. Ireland and Finland are extricating due to uncertainty about the future of the operation, and this is due to the President of Chad, who does not want the United Nations to maintain a military component. So there is a consensus in the United Nations that this should be phased out over the course of the year. We contribute in several ways, and the representative Solhjell was in on it. Is there planning in this? Yes, it is, but because the operations are more complex, it's not just planning based on how many strengths we can contribute. We had a dialogue with the UN in April, where we handed over a paper with thoughts on how Norway can contribute in the future. It was an invitation to the United Nations to come back with comments on it. Let me just mention the main elements of what we suggested there. It was, on the one hand, staff contributions — yes, but with increased emphasis on civil experts, including the entire legal value chain in justice, police, prison personnel, lawyers and judges that we see are in demand in these complex operations. Two: capacity building, primarily on the civil side, but also on the military side where we have experience and capacity, among other things. focusing on judicial and security reform, including defence sector reform. Three points: strengthening the UN's recruitment base, using emergency measures and working on policy development, i.e. doctrines and guidelines on how to operate. I think the thoughts that have been promoted here to have on hand a capacity that can quickly move out are a good idea – but it's demanding and not always wise resourceful. We remember from the Stoltenberg report the proposal to have a standing Nordic strength. It is of the proposals that the Nordic Foreign Ministers have not gone further because standing forces are expensive and demanding. Among other things, we received: a question about being able to ask an engineering company to Haiti recently, and we saw that asking it would take several months of active recruitment in the private market in Norway to get road construction experts. We don't have standing capacities on it, but we can contribute in other ways. The UN is aware that we are willing to assess how we can do it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e454	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e483	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e492	Today, as the President said, we are going to discuss two things. One is about a review of the terms and conditions of individual participation, and the other is about investment funds for individuals, with the aim of getting growth in the number of start-ups. It is important to facilitate new profitable business that we can live on in the future. An important part of a good industrial policy is to lead a stable economic policy and to give business stable and good framework conditions as liabilities for all, including for individuals. We are very much aware that growing in the number of new start-ups is important. And it's happy when Ole Petter Nyhaug in Synovate claims that there will be a growth of entrepreneurs in 2010. It is then important that it is attractive to be a founder, and that we easily become a part of the Norwegian culture. That's why the government has, among other things. a separate action plan for entrepreneurship in the language. We want such training to be of a higher quality and to increase entrepreneurship training throughout Norway, from elementary school to university and higher school. The government has warned that in evaluating the tax reform, an important part of it will be assessing whether the tax system treats different forms of activity in a non-discriminatory way. In this context, one should also consider the differences in taxation and social rights between wage earners and individuals. It is important that this is done properly, and we will come back to the debate in this area in the context of the issues presented in the spring of 2011. Nevertheless, I would like to point out the changes made in 2008 to the birth and adoption allowance for self-employed people. This was an important matter for many women who run businesses, and when there was a red-green government, there was order. For the five years I've been on the Storting, investing in entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship is a big focus from the government. Simplification, access to capital and public tools are important. When it comes to simplification, the government is well-informed with measures, including: electronic reporting by bet on Altinn. But one of the most important measures, I think, is that every time we introduce new rules, we always have to check whether this is necessary for small businesses as well. We start in the first budget just after Bondevik II with an important strengthening of the tools. Innovation Norway has been strengthened every two years, to the delight of many entrepreneurs and companies throughout the country. That the opposition in its remark doesn't think this is important, gets to account for them. On the one hand, the proposal deals with access to capital, and on the other hand, the proposers, together with the rest of the opposition, write that strengthening Innovation Norway is not interesting. And then they look at an investigation that thinks this isn't important. I do not know if a single enterprise or founder who has received money from Innovation Norway, who did not think it is important that the government has strengthened this. Over the four years I joined the nutrition committee, I received recordings from countless small companies that wanted more access to initial capital, and then the government as part of the action package added an extra nationwide grant of 150 million. NOK, the application was very large and the funds used up after just a short time. There is a high demand for funds in Innovation Norway, and entrepreneurs and those who run small businesses should pay attention to the attitude of the opposition here. But I agree with the opposition that both the Research Council and the TaxFUNN are important instruments. The evaluation of the tax FUNN found this to be a well-functioning tool for many small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why it's carried on. When it concerns investment funds, I would say that this has been done before, and the recommendation has so far not been to go for such a fund. What I'm curious about is if an AS could not be driven as well, if the challenge is that one can't set capital in the same way as in an AS. In this case, it cannot be the auditing cost that prevents it. I record that the opposition writes that they can't do it because of the audit costs, but there's a little bit of a logical flaw in that reasoning, as I see it, because they compare it to AS that's allowed to have their money standing in the company, but they pay the audit bill. Now there is a debate on the audit obligations of small companies, to which the government will return. I recognize that not all individuals can convert into an AS, and for these, such a fund might be a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e515	As the rapporteur for Document 8:67 S for 2009-2010, the representative of the Right on investment funds for individual enterprises, I would first like to say a few words about this. The proposal is very specific about asking the government to investigate the introduction of an investment fund for self-employed workers and to submit a case on this to the Stortinget. It is a proposal supported by the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, while the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, reject this. This majority believes that there are several reasons not to investigate this. The main reason for this is that a public sample, the so-called Excursions Committee which assessed the taxation of self-employed workers on distribution, did so in its work. This sample rejected such a fund, for example: with reference to the 1992 tax reform, which includes, inter alia: it was intended to get rid of such funds, as it is, in practice, providing tax credit. The majority also consider that there is no significant tax difference between being organised as an individual or a limited liability company. However, the majority say in their comments that for individual enterprises, profits may be taxed continuously as personal income, while a shareholder is taxed only extra at the date of distribution. A total minority in the committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, point out that this is just one of the challenges. Furthermore, it has to be taken into account that other Nordic countries have put in place similar schemes that the proposed representative launches. All the hearing bodies which have given their opinion on the matter are in favour of the proposal. This applies to the NHO, the Business Association, Norskog, the Norwegian Forest Association and the Norwegian Bond Team. These point out, among other things: that individual enterprises have come out poorly of the tax reform in 2006, where the tax burden was increased. I would also like to point out and remind the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that the Soria Moria II Declaration states that it will be evaluated. «the fiscal framework conditions for individual enterprises compared to limited liability companies». Then I think it is strange that a fund scheme for investment funds is not included in such an assessment. The committee presented its work in January 2005, i.e. a long time before the elections. Then it becomes a little strange to hide behind this investigation, unless you were simply not familiar with it during the work on the Soria Moria statement. I would also like to remind you that the Senterpartiet in the form of a comment approx. five to six years ago they said they wanted such an offence and proposed it. In connection with this UCITS proposal case, reference is made to the so-called ‘Equipment Committee’, which assessed the withdrawal model. The sample rejected as known, recommending instead a risk premium on the screening rate in the company model. It is therefore also proposed that, in line with the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry, a risk-absorbing margin be increased in the company model. It will achieve one of the same objectives as the current proposal for a representative is aimed at achieving. With regard to the draft representative from the Left, Document 8:85 S for 2009-1010, which calls for a comprehensive review of the terms and conditions of individual enterprises, we wholeheartedly support this in the Progress Party. This is also something that we in the Progress Party proposed just under a year ago in a draft representative, Document No. 8:74 for 2008-2009, to obtain a case on better rules for sole proprietors and entrepreneurs operating individual enterprises. I also refer to the proposal for a representative document No 8:50 S for the 2009-2010 of the Progress Party that a comprehensive communication on framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises has been prepared, which has recently been discussed in the Business Committee and debated here in Stortinget. There are also other proposals, including: from the Right, which deals with better framework conditions for traders, who have been up to discussion and debate here in the United Kingdom. The common thing for all the proposals is that they are met with the same reluctance from the government parties, even though I heard the parties say something else in the last big game, and even if there is something else in Soria Moria II. So the question is when there are some issues from the government about better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. When will e.g. Is the size being submitted to the Court of Auditors on the liability of small enterprises? What will the Minister of Finance do to make it attractive to set up individual enterprises over, for example, individual enterprises. NUF, and that it becomes more attractive to establish a normal Norwegian limited liability company over NUF? And why does the government think that this year went on 1st May trains with slogans about equal social rights for those who run individual businesses? I miss the offensive attitude of the government in this area. If there is something we should just stimulate at these times, it is to get more people to set up their own company and contribute to the creation of wealth and more tax revenue. In conclusion, I would like to mention the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or in conjunction with others in case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e544	The representative Jørund Rytman has put forward the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e547	It's true, as the previous speaker says, that small businesses are responsible for a lot of innovation and innovation in the economy. There may be a lot of evidence to suggest that the government has a higher level of capital consumption than it has been used to stimulate it. It shows, among other things: The World Bank's Doing Business report, which tends to try to move forward, but which shows that we fall on the competitiveness indexes. It's serious. However, SMEs – or small and medium-sized enterprises – account for a huge share of both employment and value creation in Norway. That's more than 99 pst. of all enterprises. They account for approx. 50 pst. of the value added of the value added, and the employment of the persons employed approx. 1 million Northers. Now there are both parts of small and medium-sized enterprises – they are organised both as individual enterprises and as a limited liability company. To a large extent, it is inappropriate to organise itself as a limited liability company. It is too expensive, costs are quite high, and the individual chooses to take the risk through individual enterprises. Then we have agriculture, which is quite special, because they are required by the concession law to choose individual companies as a company form. There is a lot of concern in statistics about the position of individual enterprises, among other things. the large growth rate in NUFs. This is a growth that has not been seen to be similar in Sweden, among other things. This is one of the reasons why the Right has proposed investment funds, because there is a similar arrangement. But I notice that the majority position argues very strongly about this because it is a perception that shareholders have a more favourable tax treatment than individuals. It is possible that there is only one opinion, and that the finance minister there can find support in it, but I also notice that they say that there are serious reasons against introducing it, and they say that there are really only limitations in the capital market because there are tax credits we are talking about. But tax credits actually mean something to most people. It has something to do with equity and getting to a bank, and it also has something to do with realising existing capital in the company. If you are subject to a profit tax before reinvesting, among other things, it obviously weakens the company. When the Central Party in 2004, in fact, proposed to introduce an investment fund, let alone what we have now proposed, it will have to be hugely heavy for the Centre Party to use such clear words when rejecting the proposal that Right here has promoted. It's going to be a little bit interesting to hear how to slide out of it. Because, as the President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection said, there is also broad support for this from the hearing bodies. It is also said in Soria Moria II that the tax framework conditions for individual enterprises compared to AS should be evaluated. So I look forward to hearing an explanation for that. So a little bit to Document 8:85 S. We wholeheartedly support a review of the conditions for individual enterprises. But I think the review the Minister of Finance had of wages was particularly interesting. It is true that the employer’s fee is part of the salary. But it may also be where we find much of the reason that there is a perception that individual enterprises have so much more unfavourable tax considerations. All of them, most of them do not count employers' contributions as part of their wages and salaries. Making it clear that employers’ pay is actually a remuneration, I think, would be very interesting, both because public attention would be given to the actual pay level in Norway and because a real debate would take place around the actual tax level if it were made visible. That is why we have proposed that we return to the State budget with a discussion on how this can be made visible on the payroll of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e564	Individual enterprises are important as start-ups — and for some who want to do a modest business. And it is important that they get conditions that allow them to evolve, as the case-in-law rapporteur Mr Eldegard explained in his statement. But there's a dilemma here. There is every reason to warn against individual enterprises relieving normal employment in the labour market and contributing to social dumping, for there is no need to hide the fact that we see many individual enterprises in the context of contract and social dumping. Part of the growth in the number of individual enterprises can be traced back to this. We see a development in which different companies, such as pre-built factories or temporary employment agencies, use individual enterprises instead of owning their own employees, or, where appropriate, renting such labour. In some industries, we have seen that people have to stop working as employees, come back as an individual company and deliver an invoice instead of an hour list. There's no positive development. Switching to individual enterprises makes it more difficult to follow up health, environment and safety, personnel development and development of competences. The Minister of Finance has stated in the case that it is not such that individual enterprises get worse in tax terms. In fact, it is often possible for individual enterprises to make better comparisons with employees by deducting costs for cars, equipment, professional literature, caravans, etc. But they also have to take the back of the medal, and the most important thing is that they don't have a notice period and get a weakened economy when they leave. The trade union movement's people say that most dirty bankruptcies, with a lack of employer responsibility, that they meet, are just through individual enterprises, especially those registered as a Norwegian branch of non-resident enterprises. They are usually represented by bankruptcys based on unprofitability – unpaid pay/holiday pay, not paid tax/VAT. The development of the labour market, and not least the EU and EEA rules, is a dangerous path for several individual enterprises, as they are used to circumvent rules and conditions in the labour market, such as: the public sector body, joint and several liability, transparency, etc. Developments in the use of individual enterprises have seriously weakened professional mobility in several European countries, for example: Germany and England. In England we have seen a huge use of contractors and a heavily weakened construction industry. In Germany, the same developments have weakened both the slaughterhouses and the construction industry. A development which facilitates registration and which makes it more attractive to engage in ‘autonomous business’ without clarifying the concept of a worker against maritime business, I think without a doubt would be a threat to the normal employer/employee relationship, an effective way of doing business. Therefore, SV believes that it is appropriate to focus on support measures for real individual enterprises, on guidance and other assistance — an active entrepreneurship policy. But we don't need to make it even more attractive to run individual enterprises at the expense of normal additions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e585	One of the reasons we stand in Norway is that we have a serious business life. In that it is a continuous eye for unprofessional business, whether it is a form of company in which the limited liability of the incorporated company is limited or it is a seafaring trader. There have been historically different types of companies, and that is what it will be. It requires one to follow it up and one to ensure that one type of company is no better than the other to facilitate unprofessional activities. That's what I want to say, based on the last article. The conditions for seafarers are an important issue, and important documents are being processed. It is a long historical tradition in Norway for sea-going businessmen, a tradition that has been a builder, and in which one has facilitated a diligent culture of working life. According to the assessment of the Centre Party, there is a need for more people to start their business in such a way of working and for a person to take good care of those engaged in such activities. The positive aspects of maritime industry are much greater than the negative ones, if any. The Soria Moria II Declaration states that the government will: «in the context of the evaluation of the tax reform, consider the fiscal framework conditions for individual enterprises compared to limited liability companies». The line of the centre party is thus both an individual-person enterprise – what is called a maritime trader – and a limited liability company. The types of company required are different in nature. When you have a high risk, a large number of employees and an enterprise that grows beyond its start, most find it natural to establish the business as a limited liability company. That's right and right. Sick business activities are most attractive to entrepreneurs, to economic enterprises where the family is mainly the labour force, or to enterprises with few employees. Framework conditions are important both for limited liability companies and for maritime operators, so that companies under the NUF, Norwegian-registered Foreign Enterprises, become less topical than today. I hope the Minister of Finance reminds us that we are going to have conditions for sea-going traders and company companies so that the NUF does not evolve as we have seen, but goes in the opposite direction, so that we get fewer of these company structures. So, as a point, the Sälständig businessman is – as a point no. 1 – individuals and businesses in one and the same. Individuals must tax according to their ability. That means that if the profits in the company are large, it provides the basis for top taxes. That's the system, that's the system's inherent logic. Item No 2: In the case of commercial activities, there is a greater risk of operating as a maritime operator than in the form of a limited liability in the form of a limited liability in the form of a limited liability in the form of a limited liability in the form of a limited liability in the form of a limited liability in the form of a limited liability in the case of a limited liability in the case of a limited liability in the case of a limited liability in the case of a limited liability in the case of a company. It was intended that the taxation of business activities should be organised on an ongoing basis in such a way that it would be more favourable than that of the form of a limited liability company, at least not vice versa. What becomes the principles of the Central Party in the evaluation to be carried out by the government is that income taxation is carried out in such a way as to improve the possibilities available. One current way to do this is to allow self-employed persons who process income from different sources to move it into a blocked account. It accumulates up to a certain point and can then be used for one-off depreciation on the investment object that it has as a self-employed person, i.e., you have a restatement of investment capital that is held in a blocked account and that, when the investment takes place, is used for one-off depreciation on the amount. As a result, there is, in reality, a repositioning of capital from one point to another within the company form of self-employed persons. Similarly, in the case of taxes on wealth, it is our line that a person should have an exemption from working capital for self-employed traders, because the whole point of taxes on wealth is that there is an extra tax on the non-workable income over a certain size. And in individual enterprises, taxation will take the form of income, and thus there will be a natural taxation on the income side, and then the wealth side is illogical. Social rights are also a part, and they are included in the assessments that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e612	It's always interesting first to hear Lars Egeland and then Per Olaf Lundtigen. I think that so, that you world, it must be very interesting that happens in the big fraction meetings that the government parties have, for the purpose of different approaches to central policy areas you should look for a long time! To Lars Egeland, with all due respect: it was almost as if sole proprietorships were an abomination that was largely just a scene of social dumping and other vices in this world – while I feel much more in line with Lundtigen’s approach, that there is far more positive than negative in individual enterprises. So I'm curious – when the government is reviewing the tax reform, where they should not least look at different forms of taxation in different areas – how this ultimately ends, with such a different approach. From the Christian People's Party, we see individual enterprises as something positive. We have a heavy public sector in this country, so heavy that it carries us through both financial crises and what may be. But it does not mean that we can put ourselves in a state of rest when it comes to providing good working conditions for those who actually rate themselves – rates of equity, perhaps reducing countless hours of work. As public authorities, we need to be interested in how we can facilitate the creation of jobs and businesses. And that's the starting point for us to vote in favour of the proposals as they exist. I really wanted to challenge the government parties on one point related to this. And because we have an equal pay debate that's going on right now -- we want it to be more equal in the world of work -- it's not to say that social rights are an important part of the businesses we're talking about here. So my question is, since the opposition has so far promoted more proposals in this direction as well: what priority will be given to helping to achieve the greater goal of equality in this part of the world of work as well? Do you have anything to come with, or can we not expect anything on that front? It could at least be interesting to hear if you have any signals to give. Of course, even if you do not vote for the proposals, it is possible to give a signal or two.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e623	Together with hundreds of others, Trine Skei Grande and I signed trains on 1 May to fight for better rights and less discrimination for the self-employed. The representative of Egeland was supposed to be there talking to all the young, creative, beautiful women who wanted to start for themselves, create a job for themselves and for others. While the government and government parties show a touching concern for all trade unions when it comes to issuing guarantees that the sickness and pension entitlements to be continued by the AFP, deductions from union quotas to be extended and the rights of employees to be strengthened, there is a lack of care and willingness to do something with the self-employed, as I see it. In the new government platform Soria Moria II, entrepreneurs and/or self-employed persons are not mentioned once. Individual enterprises are mentioned once, since in the context of a long-term notified review of some consequences of the tax reform. In comparison, mention of employees' rights has a separate comprehensive two-page section. The self-employed create their own jobs, bear personally the financial risk of the enterprise and are neither entitled to sickness benefits nor to unemployment benefits. Nevertheless, they pay significantly more taxes than usual employees with the same income. An estimate by the Tax Payer Association shows that an income of NOK 300000 is 38 pst. taxes higher in an individual enterprise than the same income as wages and salaries received. This difference is grossly unfair and highly discriminatory. On a number of occasions, the Left has made proposals to change this, and the government parties have equally often voted against it. The problem is the absence of arguments from the government and government parties. It is not the case that the vast majority of individual enterprises are millions of shops where the trader can almost scald and choose with money, make adjustments or get away with little tax. On the contrary, the level of income of the self-employed is often very low. A letter from the Council of State received from the Norwegian jazz forum, GramArt and the Music Society last autumn showed that the average income for musicians, singers and conductors organized in individual companies was less than DKK 185 000. The essence of the letter is, moreover, very similar to that of the Left's proposal for a representative: better social rights and fiscal non-discrimination, to which Mr Lundtägen was also referring. Self-employed or individual enterprises comprise around 200000 Norwegian jobs and represent around 50 pst. by all Norwegian companies. Starting as a self-employed person is often a start-up phase for new forward-looking enterprises, of which the Left will have more. Therefore, discrimination against self-employed people is a direct obstacle to future-oriented innovation, which is necessary to ensure sustainable development. It stifles industrial entrepreneurs, who would otherwise be central pioneers in technological innovation towards a carbon-neutral society, and poor social rights are the main obstacle to getting female entrepreneurs in business. When you read the letter of reply from the Council of State, it may seem that it is almost a suspicious attitude towards small businesses and self-employed people as to what they can find out if they change the rules. I sincerely hope that this is not the case. The left wants a policy that supports innovation and entrepreneurs. We have to support those who dare to bet, who believe in an idea and who are willing to take the opportunity to create tomorrow's jobs. In short, it must be honorable to make money to start your own business. The least we could do was to carry out an overall review of the conditions for individual enterprises and self-employed persons. Unfortunately, this is rejected by the government parties on the basis of a number of measures to be assessed by the government at some time and which are largely not relevant to individual enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e640	First of all, I'm going to be allowed to say that it's both good and positive that people start their own companies, and that we have a lot of good entrepreneurs -- I've had the pleasure of meeting someone lately. Then there is probably a little disagreement about what kind of instruments are the best, but one has built up the tool tool not least to help both entrepreneurs and others to get their own business going. In the case of investment funds for self-employed persons, there is a question that has been raised in the past. This was assessed by the so-called Austaksommissionsvariete in a setting presented in 2005. It rejected such a proposal, inter alia: having regard to the fact that an important part of the tax reform in 1992 was to get rid of such fund schemes. In practice, these provided a tax credit to businesses that had the economy to make provisions, which in fact meant lower tax rates for such companies. One believed that the type of tax credits broke with the principles of the objectives underlying the tax reform. I see that for many individuals it may be a challenge that profits are taxed continuously as personal income, while a shareholder is taxed only extra at the time of dividends or share sales. In a non-profit world, it might have been such that even individuals' businesses had that turbulence. However, this was thoroughly investigated, and one came to the conclusion that one should have the distinction that one has between an individual and a limited liability company. Another aspect that was also in the picture was that it was quite complicated to have to have new rules for both the accounting and auditing obligations of individual enterprises. The committee received broad support, nor did the Bondevik government in its time choose to set up such a scheme for individual enterprises. As regards the second case, which concerns an overall review of the terms and conditions of individual enterprises, I agree with the proposers that it is of course important to facilitate a new and profitable business. This is something the government is working for and will be working for the future. Here's a lot of things you can do. One is to create a secure framework in the economy, so that business has good and stable framework conditions that apply to all, including individual enterprises. Simplifications made, access to capital and public sector instruments are important elements of government's industrial policy. The government is strongly committed to electronic reporting and the development of good electronic services for business. The system of ALTIN is perhaps one of the most important simplifications that have been made for both small businesses and many others lately. In my view, the government has implemented several measures to improve business and innovation, including: also through a significant investment in Innovation Norway. In my view, there is no need for a new, specific review of measures beyond what is government policy in the various areas. Several have then shown that in the field of non-discrimination with regard to taxation, social rights, etc., this will be seen in the context of the evaluation of the 2006 tax reform. I can also confirm, on questions from the representative Syversen, that the issue of social rights etc. is part of the government’s evaluation to be submitted to the Storting in just under a year’s time, i.e. in the spring of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e660	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e663	Finally, the Council of State replied to what I was really wondering: When will the government present a case concerning the tax discrimination of individual enterprises and small enterprises? But what the council did not respond to, and which I requested in my post, was the question of the accountability of small companies. I think a few years ago, at least a while ago, was a sample that looked at this. I would therefore like to see it as natural that a case be brought before the Stortinget about this, which affects very many small businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e670	With regard to the audit obligation for small and medium-sized enterprises, the issue is probably closer than the evaluation to be made in the spring of 2011. We're now working on the matter in the department, and the answer I can give is that here you're doing an assessment of how far you're going in the audit obligation for small businesses. There are many who have raised this question with me, wanted to have a slightly simpler audit obligation than for larger companies. What speaks against it is, of course, the control aspect. But I can confirm that we have that matter for consideration now, and aim to present it as soon as advice is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e675	I am of the opinion that the vast majority of people who run small individual businesses are honest, honest people who work hard. They believe in an idea, and it's quite important both for the ability to convert and value creation in Norwegian society. Then we stand here and hear a long tiger from the SV-representative, Egeland, who is mostly going to suspect those who are doing their own business, and which really means that you have a suspicion that if they haven't done anything wrong, they're going to plan to do something wrong. Does the Minister of Finance support this type of approach to individual enterprises in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e682	People who run individual businesses or businesses are consistently good people. I think we can sign that. But one should not rule out the existence of crooked vessels both among people who run common companies and among people who run single man companies. But the starting point is that there are people who work hard, who believe in an idea, and who contribute significantly both to employment and value creation in Norway. I had the pleasure of meeting some of them at Hedmarken a week ago, and I am impressed by the job being done. But I also see that there are things that can be done to make the conditions better, not least when it comes to being able to get over the difficult phase of having an idea established and to the market. One issue that I think we should discuss in the future is greater support in the more market-oriented work of getting the idea out of the market. That's often what it lacks, and that's often where it stops.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e687	I was going to continue with the visit the Minister of Finance has had with the founders of Hedmark, and then I would like to ask: What did they do about what we as governments can do in relation to the legislation and arrangements we administer? What was the clear signal given in such a way that made an impression on the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e692	The strongest impression was the belief they had in their idea and the way in which many had put it. It impressed me. So they were concerned about this with reporting, forms, which, in my opinion, we are in good hands with in terms of simplifying people's everyday lives. I showed in my post to the ALTINN system, which I think is a significant help in making it easier to deal with public authorities. Then they were also concerned that one thing is to have an idea, but something else is to get the idea sold, to sell a product. So I see clearly that there might be a need for something more attention around what we can call the market segment. This was three things that they were busy about. But otherwise it is also my impression that one feels that there are good arrangements to get started, i.e. in the start-up phase. But that's certainly more we can do. I will be happy to come back to this in Stortinget on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e699	Both in the ownership notification and in Soria Moria I, a review of the funder’s financing was announced, including the creation of a funder’s bank. My question is, how is it going with this founder bank? That could help, as the Council of State was about to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e704	I am not able to give an answer as to where that bank is. But I have noted it, so I will take it further to the person who is the Minister of Industry. In general, it's important that you have good access to capital, and it's also one of the obstacles that you often have to face in a business, what is commonly called the iron bath, that is, the period from you've established your belief in the idea until you're going to commercialize it. There have been several public schemes to contribute to this, seed capital, etc. But I take note of the term ‘founder bank’, and then I will bring the question to the attention of the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e709	I also think that the state council's visit to Hedmark was interesting among hopefully law-abiding individual companies. In the discussion on investment funds, the State Council of Stortinget writes that ideally, it would have been an advantage if you had the same tax credit for individual companies as you have for companies. Then he goes on to say – and the majority here also says – that there is nothing that has changed since the Committee on Withdrawal said something about this. But this is about real access to capital. Does the Council not believe that access to capital and the relationship with banks have changed significantly since 2005 when we were on our way up to the top of the economic cycle, compared to what individual enterprises are now struggling with? Wouldn't investment funds be a lot better idea now than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e716	I can confirm that heathmarks are tough people, even though it's hard to go on roller skis when you don't stay on your legs, but it's another bowl. Otherwise, I would just like to point out what I have said in previous lines, that there are things that have changed, and one thing that has changed is that we are in some other economic environment now than what we were in, especially in the period 2006-2008. The fact that we are now also going to evaluate the tax reform of 2006 is, to the extent that we are also meeting what the fleet is considering, that there may be things that have changed since 2006 and that require one to look at this with access to capital, among other things. to individual undertakings in the light of that fact. I do not want to pre-empt the evaluation, but I will promise that I will also take with me the views that the fleet here expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e724	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e729	I think I can confirm that it's not just in Hedmark that there are law-abiding sole proprietorships. They're pretty much all over the country, in every state. For this reason, such an article as the representative of Aegean had here today falls entirely on stone floor in this discussion. It's an understatement. I think it is serious accusations against those who start in small things, who build this country, and who have thought about themselves in limited liability companies. For this with a limited liability company: it is not a division between one and the other. You have to go into it gradually, but then it also has to be simplified. It is then necessary to make it easier to establish limited liability companies, with a lower share capital, to look at the audit obligation, and not least to look at the form field. So I have to say that I'm surprised at the different approaches of the different government parties here, and not least when I hear the representative Lundtigen who uses the term "industry" culture in the Norwegian community about the sole proprietorships. Yeah, that's right. I am also amazed at the fact that he did not mention agriculture at all in his article, because that is where individual enterprises are particularly important. I have to say, especially for Lundtigen's speeches, because I see the Central Party as a party fighting for the conditions of small businesses, that however, you write notes where none of what the representative Lundtigen says about this pulpit is reflected at all. The observations of the majority are generally merely a repetition of the letter of the Council of State. I think that's quite strange, especially at a time when we know that the capital situation in agriculture is something of the utmost importance, and that for example. This could have been a small part of an improvement. Then, however, Lundtigen said that our proposal for investment funds will be something that you will come back to. He will fight for it when he comes so far that it will be an evaluation of the tax reform. But he doesn't have a penetrator for a single sentence in the notes that are written this time. Before I choose to believe in such statements for the benefit of small businesses and sole proprietorships, the representative Lundtigen has to convince me that he also has an impact on such a small matter as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e747	It has been said several times here today and stressed that individual enterprises are an important contributor to business, that important initiatives are being taken, and they are an important start to many of the larger companies that we have today. It started with an individual enterprise, it started with an idea, an commitment, an effort, and someone who was willing to take risks. Then, as my predecessor on the speaker's chair also said, it's scary to hear the rhetoric from SV, which is completely disregarding the group of individual companies that have created these values, but only talking about black paint and individual cases that fall outside the system that we all want. We can find that in many forms of companies. What I also noticed was that this sounded like, among other things. from the rapporteur, that it was so easy to choose which type of company you wanted. No, that's not it, because many people who are going to start up today are going to raise capital, and there is to be security for that capital. This means that many people are recommended to have just an independent company, a sole proprietorship, at that start-up stage, which makes it easier for them to obtain capital and to be financed in a proper way. Then they haven't thought that this might be a success that evolves, and that others are going to take over. That's when the problems start. Once they've shown initiative, when they've made a huge effort, when they've driven value creation and created something that's really going on, but see that maybe there's time for others to take over, they get problems when they're going to sell this and maybe want to use capital on new ideas. Then it disappears in tax, because they do not have the same possibilities as they had with a corporation. A little ago, there was a big look in the Agederpost about just such a case. A lady, a founder, took over a ready-to-fall building and set up a great overnight business. Now one sees that if she's going to sell it, the capital that she could use to start something else disappears. The local worker party representative de Ruiter went out with big words in the paper and said that this is how we can't have it, this is going to be wrong, this is going to be unfair. Since then I have not heard anything from the Ruits. I have also not seen anything about his statements in the comments in the case, and I have not heard anything in this room that one will follow up on the fact that this is wrong, this is unfair. More people here have said that we need to look at this. Nevertheless, we are sitting in this room today and are probably voting against it. It must be heavy to swallow.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e760	I thought it was fun to discuss business policy, and it's nice to be a member of a party that has an involvement with this. I want to say that I have at least some knowledge of both being dedicated and running small companies. I have to say that during all those years I never heard that this was very difficult. The focus in those companies was on technology development. But then I came here to the Storting, and the first thing that happened was that there were lobbyists who told me that it was so unlikely difficult to run businesses in this country. I think it's very nice to run businesses here today, but I agree that it's always possible to get better. For this reason, the government has set up a Strategic Council for SMEs, which will support the work to put forward its own strategy for SMEs. I know well about the Women's Network in Follo, and most of the ladies who were there were organized in single-man companies. The challenge they faced was support — perhaps from Innovation Norway — in the start-up phase, which the opposition actually writes in the comments is not interesting. That's what I think is incredibly serious. I am very pleased that the government focuses on female entrepreneurs and gives them the opportunity to start-up capital, because it is actually not so often that these women use the TaxFUNN scheme or the Research Council as an instrument. There were questions here about equality. It was actually our government that introduced birth money and adoption money for self-employed women – which is important. So write the opposition in the form of a note about the property tax. When it comes to the changes that have been made in the wealth tax in the last year, with quite a few deductions, I actually believe that it is a single-man enterprise that really enjoys what has been done there. The last speaker before me corrected me for the fact that one who does not want to start a limited liability company can switch to it later. I agree with him that once the company has come to the point that one is dependent on getting an investment fund because of tax burdens and such, one should perhaps have the opportunity to switch to a limited liability company, even if I, as I said in my first post, acknowledge that not all companies are able to change to the form of a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e775	When most hairdressers who used to be employees are now individuals' companies that hire their chair from their salon owners, it is probably not the ones Borghild Tenden went on trains along with 1 May. I also went on trains then, along with the trade movement, which had just social dumping as the main thing. I knew that most people here were going to talk positively about individuals' businesses. That's why it was important in my first post to spend most of my time on the negative sides, which we want to fight, and which everyone here has really passed away in silence. I'm sorry, because that means rejecting that this is a problem. I can also sign on to the question that the Minister of Finance got about the view of individuals' businesses, that there are people who are basically angry, honest and hardworking people. My wife runs an individual enterprise – and that's how I know her – and she likes it. But it is important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time: to facilitate entrepreneurship, to facilitate real start-ups, to simplify business life, but at the same time to combat a development in which people who have been employed go to the workplace as individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e784	I feel the need to repeat what I said about the long historical tradition we have in Norway with sea-going businessmen as a hard-working labour culture and a culture of business. It's a unique tradition we have. I have no problem joining those who see that within this company form there are some who are developing an activity that is on the edge of the law in connection with social dumping contractors. It doesn't have the support of the Center Party. In the case of seafaring traders, there is no coincidence that the conditions are as they are. There are different assessments both among the opposition parties and among the government parties at that point. That's how it's been all over the year. Assessment by the Bondevik II Board of Directors of this in Ot.prp. No 92 for 2004–2005, where one did not recommend the imposition of a tax at the time of disbursement for individual entities, was one example of that. In this debate, a person may criticise or look forward to it. One can criticize what's not being done or what's being done. I choose to look ahead, choose to look at the possibilities that are opening up to improve the situation of seafaring traders, given the fact that in the case of seafaring traders, a few permanent taxes on income will be levied, while in the case of a limited liability company, only the deduction is taxed in addition to the business tax. As the Council of State said, that is a fact. If we go into that issue, one option – and I would like to stress it – may be to give an opportunity to accumulate a certain amount of capital, assuming that there is certainty that the tax will be paid, if necessary, but that the accumulated amount is used as a one-off depreciation for depreciable assets. What is then the improvement for the marine operators is that the depreciable investment is not written off over many years, but over fewer years. It's a practical change that can be made, and I think we should discuss to a greater extent the possibilities for improving it, while at the same time ensuring as much as possible of the system of the tax system, instead of going into cheap points as to who has said what, when said, and why not get sorted out now. Finally, this is addressed in the government's review of the assessment of the tax reform, where it is specified that the precise relationships between maritime operators and public limited liability companies should be thoroughly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e793	I just want to clear up one – obviously – misunderstanding. The second rapporteur, Gunvor Eldegard of the Workers' Party, pointed out in both his speeches that the opposition criticises Innovation Norway in comments, if I heard her correctly. Now I've read both of them, and I can't find anywhere that the opposition criticizes Innovation Norway. On the other hand, what we point out in some remarks is that we react to the majority's comments, where they point to strengthening Innovation Norway – and that's good, I think all of them here are very nice, although of course it's not always as relevant to individual enterprises. If you look at what is the rule for what Innovation Norway can support, there are a lot of criteria for where innovation should be, etc. But I'll leave it. What we notice in the opposition is that the majority mention the creation of Investinor, as if it had any relevance to individual enterprises. I don't think so, because it's probably not the intention for Investinor to provide support to individual enterprises that like to have one, two, or maybe three employees. But there are newly established companies with more employees who have global export opportunities and who are going to grow even larger. But I may have misunderstood that Invstinor has now changed its criteria for what to invest in. But at least that's what I meant, and I think it's also about the other opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e798	Just a few comments to the representative, Mr Egeland, first. I am pleased with the small amount of time he has spent in his three minutes here, regarding the first post he had, and he also received a relatively clear correction, not least by the Minister of Finance. Now he says in his post that you need to have two thoughts in your head regarding the development of business for individual enterprises. Yes, I totally agree with that, but couldn't we have the positive thoughts in our heads first and then come up with the opposite ideas afterwards? So when the representative Lundtigen, who is probably speaking to my post, talks about looking forward instead of criticizing. I don't think there's anything critical about asking in this case what the Central Party and the representative Lundtigen think, rather than hearing what he's going to do since. But then I think it's excellent what he's going to do since, because he's talking about accumulation of capital in order to have one-off depreciation since. But that is what this proposal is all about. In fact, it is a matter of enabling the company to have more capital, and tax credits are very important for the disposal of capital. The representative of Lundtigen will know that perfectly well, for he was, at least on his own account, one of the great architects behind the agreement with the shipping companies in 1992, and there were, of course, significant tax credits. It is those who have brought Norwegian shipping and the maritime cluster in the future. He has several times in this hall expressed that that's right. So I am happy to see that when we get this evaluation, he is now going to have an impact. He can contribute greatly to the government with his experience of tax credits. In brackets it must be allowed to note that he did not get it when we did about the shipping tax system, but there are always new trains, and new opportunities are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e805	I also want to take some things that appear in the debate. What we have said about Innovation Norway concerns the one-sided emphasis on the increase. Norwegian Industry had a survey, and it shows that the increase in Innovation Norway came down quite low on the enterprise priority list. There was an increase in grants to the Research Council, there was a strengthening of the TaxFUNN, there was an increase in funding for the UH sector, which was much more important for many companies and the innovation capacity around. So that's what we've been saying about it. It also took up Rytman. So it's interesting to see the Aegean go into conflict within the family here, after he was corrected by the finance minister. But this social dumping thing is interesting. I dare say that the only guarantee against social dumping is to have a strong labour market. If you want a strong labour market, you depend on a lot of people creating jobs. Individual and small enterprises do. So Aegean bites himself in the tail of most of what he argues with here today. So to the last, which was Eldegard's comment on the property tax and this with the bottom deduction. There is no doubt that during the last period, the property tax – plus Lundtägen’s contributions on exemptions from working capital – was a mere cutback on ownership of Norwegian companies. The property tax now affects mainly only owners of Norwegian enterprises, as well as some with large dwellings and that kind of thing. But predominantly, the increase has come to ownership in the enterprise. I think the red-greens are going to experience a big problem in that you want jobs, but you don't want the owners. That balance sheet is going to be extremely difficult. It's very well illustrated in these times. As the fleet representative pointed out, the financing problem is not a small problem for many small businesses today. So the whole majority comment comes in a strange light, after what's happened in the last few days. However, the continuation of a policy that is a mere pinching of ownership of Norwegian companies is almost incomprehensible. It must be, as the representative of the Christian People's Party was about, interesting to be at the big fractional meetings when this is being debated, because there is a lot going on here in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e814	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the term 'bite itself in the tail' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e818	I should like to try to give a response to the representative. First, I just have to explain that a good part of the proposal from the Left, which is a rather long proposal, concerned access to capital for founders. Then it might not be strange that we want to tell you about Investinor. I totally agree that there are very many small individuals who may not be going to seek Investinor for money, but Investinor has no limit in terms of corporate model. The investor shall primarily invest in early growth enterprises and enterprises with the potential to take risks abroad. It's Investinor, and it's an important access to capital for companies in Norway. The second thing I'm writing is that we've strengthened Innovation Norway. For small individuals, Innovation Norway may be the most important instrument. That's why I'm quite surprised when it says in the comments: ‘These members marvel at the majority’s emphasis on the increase in grants to Innovation Norway.’ I'm surprised that one at all can say that, because very many small individuals in Norway, innovation Norway may be the first tool they come to, and that's where they have possibilities. These may not be the largest users of the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Research Council. I think a lot of the small individuals that we're talking about are the ones who are now enjoying the huge deduction from the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e832	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e835	To the representative Fleet: it is important to have a tongue in your mouth, especially with regard to the shipping tax. It was from 1996, and it contained no tax credits. No, it contained zero tax on a permanent basis if a fulfilment of the obligations relating to the zero-tax scheme. That's what the Supreme Court also fixed – and happy it was. Otherwise, the point of what we are discussing now is savings from different sources to investments in business development in enterprises. We are not talking here about exemptions from taxation, because the money is taxed in such a way that it reduces the future depreciation basis – so it increases the future tax. But it's part of building the business, and that's what's central. That is why I believe that such a start-up write-off has the opportunity to get through, because there is a reasonably agreed compromise – should be – between different interests in order to further develop our tax system for maritime business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e842	It was the representative of Gunvor Eldegard who made me take the floor. She is as usual brilliantly satisfied with her own government and today also brilliantly satisfied with her own business. That's good. But I understood the Minister of Finance more to the point that he was out listening a little bit and looking at what challenges such as. individual enterprises are facing, as I have also done on a number of company visits. But what made me take the floor was Innovation Norway, because that's the way it is – and the representative of Eldegard, who has been in the nutrition committee, should know that much of the money in Innovation Norway goes to already existing companies. As a representative of Akershus, she should also have an overview of how little of the money goes to Akershus. At least she should have that insight. In this context, she should look at the Left's proposal to split Innovation Norway into two, to make it visible how much is going to existing businesses and how little is going to innovation. The left wants more of that money to go to innovation. I hope we can agree that a little more of that money should go to Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e851	The representative Svein Fleet gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e854	I don't think the year of the shipping tax system plays such a big role. I agree that Lundtigen is right in this very thing. I want to spend a few seconds saying that I am happy that he is happy about the judgment in the Supreme Court, and the outcome it received. But I think it's a pity that he hasn't influenced his government in a different direction than to take the rematch that they did afterwards, perhaps not least in terms of the predictability that the industry had already gained through the introduction of the investment fund part of the returned tax credits, because that was what the government finally talked about that it was. I think that was a pity for the industry, and I think it was a pity that neither the Senterpartiet nor Per Olaf Lundtigen could contribute anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e861	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[See page 3426]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e877	The economic downturn we have suffered has hit the low-income countries hard, even though poor countries like to have a small-scale financial sector. However, export income to these countries and also private transfers from abroad in the form of investments and the repatriation of funds by emigrants is significantly reduced in many countries. This has helped to weaken the public budgets of these countries and their capacity to manage debt. At the same time, access to loans from abroad has also become more difficult. This hard hit the population of the poorest countries and sets back the fight against poverty. The International Monetary Fund does not provide regular assistance but may grant crisis loans to low-income countries under subsidised conditions. The Committee has noted that it announced the conversion of the IMF loan arrangements for low-income countries, which were adopted on its Board of Directors on 29 July last year, on important points, is in line with Norwegian views on flexibility and arrangement of the scheme. The Committee is pleased with that. The Committee has agreed that conditions relating to the system of governance, the fight against corruption and democratic participation are legitimate instruments which can be assessed both in terms of the granting of loans and in any debt-relief negotiations. The Committee also stresses the importance of the transparency of the country’s lending procedures and that the public can freely express its views on this through different democratic channels. Furthermore, the Committee is united in the view that improved financial management, transparency around the economic dispositions of countries, an effective and uncorrupt auditing system and a well-functioning central bank are key elements in ensuring a stable and poverty-oriented policy, and in preventing new debt problems. The Committee also points to the responsibilities of states that lend funds to regimes with a lack of legitimacy in the people and that may become accomplices in the indebtedness of some countries. An error occurred at the time of the opening of the financial committee, and it seemed that not the whole committee was behind the latest views. It is fixed in the final setting. I just mentioned it because the first setting was on Storting's websites a while before the error was discovered. In addition, the Committee supports the overall approach to decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e896	Then we have also noticed here in the Chamber that there is an overall committee that is behind this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e899	In SV, the scepticism of the IMF is very great. In many countries, we have seen how the IMF has intervened and helped prevent social development, given increased freedom to capital instead of increased control, and made demands that the poor pay for the economic crises as an alternative to radical redistribution. It is in a way an additional injustice when the poor countries are hit by the financial crisis. However, the new loan arrangements for low-income countries that the IMF will now launch include: come with strong support from Norway and show a new direction for the IMF. Based on the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has been particularly concerned about bringing about changes in conditionality requirements that prevent the recipient countries from being faced with the requirement to privatise or liberalise in order to receive support from the IMF. That's what we're talking about here, loans with subsidized interest rates. The IMF Board of Directors has decided to increase the grant element by reducing the fixed subsidised interest rate payable by the borrowers from 0,5 pst. To 0, 0. This is important to ensure that new loans can bring countries out of debt crisis and not keep them there, while at the same time having political and economic space to pursue a counter-cyclical policy. Once we have had such an impact on our policy towards the IMF, we must, of course, contribute money, as suggested in this case. That's what it's called to take responsibility when you win out with your points of view. At the same time, it is important that we keep an eye on how the use of these loan schemes is going to be, to see if they really fulfil our intentions, namely to make a financial contribution to the poorest countries in a way that benefits the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e910	We should not overestimate Norway's role internationally, but more than we may be aware of, look to Norway as a country with other traditions and a different foreign policy, not least as a country outside the European Union. We are in many ways a different country, and it is important that the different country is not seaworthy enough. It is important that you have international solidarity as a perspective for what you do in the longer term. Norway is making significant efforts to finance the various UN institutions, and we are also making efforts in relation to bilateral assistance. The case today concerns our conduct within the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, which is all known to be a limited liability company, where individual countries own larger or smaller shareholdings. The public limited liability company IMF has an arrangement on emergency loans to low-income countries under subsidised conditions. It depends on voluntary contributions from the IMF member countries. While we have a general arrangement signed between the IMF and the Bank of Norway on July 6, 2009, for a total of 27 billion. kr is the low income scheme in which Norway has participated, of the order of 2 to 4 billion. kr. It is positive that we participate here, while constantly having a keen eye on how the IMF prioritises and facilitates its activities. It's rare there's some free lunch, and it's also true of the International Monetary Fund. So one has to make sure that the way the IMF provides money is in line with what is the best democratic tradition and that is building for each country. Therefore, the government parties are pleased that the requirements of the IMF for privatisation and competitive outsourcing are limited. It is important that the low-income countries in this area are given the opportunity — which Norway has had the opportunity — to build up its activities in key areas based on ownership and on forms of companies where privatisation and outsourcing are not the leading principle. This is why it is important for Norway to fulfil its role as a non-member country, which is not seaworthy, and to contribute and be active in order to ensure that the funds we make available within the International Monetary Fund are used to ensure different values than profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e921	I'm sometimes a little uncertain as to whether not being yourself is necessarily synonymous with being a different country. That's where I think I'm going to have to take a little dent on what Mr. Lundtegen said. Apart from that, in this case I would like to give the government credit for the work that has been done, and which has been a follow-up to the majority of comments also to the IMF, not only specifically related to this matter, but to the entire arrangement of the loan operations of the IMF. We can also discuss it in the context of the discussion of the financial communication. But I wanted to say that here I think the government has done a good job. It is important that we have a situation in which the IMF can contribute to poor countries and ensure their access to international funding. The IMF does not provide assistance and shall not do so, but it is also important to have access to loans at a rate that is not totally unacceptable. The Financial Committee and the majority have been concerned about this with conditionality, i.e. what structural requirements can be imposed in addition to a loan. We have largely been in line here, that there should be a restriction on the political behaviour of the IMF towards individual countries. I think we've come a very good way here. At the same time, there is also reason to say that a unanimous committee recalls that transparency and that the public can express its views through democratic channels are also relevant to how to expect beneficiary countries to act for IMF loans. So here's a balance sheet, and I'll give honey to the government for how to handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e932	It is an important matter that Stortinget is now dealing with. There is one thing in which there is full agreement in the Storting that this is necessary to do, and I am very pleased about that. Although much of the attention is now focused on the difficult situation faced by many European countries in particular, there is no doubt that the financial crisis may have hit most of the countries with the least resistance. Therefore, it is important that these countries have good access to international funding, and a channel for such contributions is to support crisis loans that the Fund now provides to low-income countries under gift conditions. At the same time, it is also important that poor countries, as far as the advice is concerned, have room for action and national ownership of their own economic policies, even if the country needed a loan for the balance of payments. Therefore, the government has contributed a critical voice in the international discussion on the role of the IMF in relation to low-income countries. We have also worked to ensure that the IMF reduces its extensive requirements for structural changes in loan programmes. In the summer of 2009, the IMF adopted a complete restructuring of the low-income country scheme, creating two new loan options to provide the world’s poorest countries with short-term balance of payments loans at very low interest rates. For the time being, interest is zero. The fact that one introduced these mechanisms makes it much easier for the IMF to avoid taking on a development role outside its traditional mandate. The second important development is that the IMF has shifted and reduced requirements in loan programmes in a direction that Norway has wanted. Where the organisation traditionally used a loan programme to try to implement all structural measures that were considered reasonable at the time of the conclusion, reform requirements are now less and more acute. And that's good. The government is very pleased that you have made a change in the loan scheme and that you have reduced the so-called structural requirements. It is a conversion that Norway has argued for a long time. We have also had an impact on the designation of contributions, so that we can ensure that Norwegian support only goes to the IMF schemes supported by Norway. In line with the wish of the majority of the population, we have worked to ensure that the IMF should establish better arrangements for poor countries. Now that we have had an impact on better arrangements, we should also say yes to contributing financially to such schemes. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Budgets unanimously endorses the proposed loan agreement. In addition to the substantial assistance already provided by Norway through its assistance to cover the costs of subsidising the interest rate on these loans to zero. So it is not only the government's honour, but also the Grand Council's unanimous support for this, which shows that Norway is a country of the highest importance in terms of working for those countries with low incomes to have good development opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e945	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e961	The proposition we are about to deal with now is an aggregate proposition with proposals for changes in a number of areas of the Finance Act. I'm going to go through the areas that, in my view, represent the most important changes. The Committee is not fully integrated in the view of all the amendments, but there are no major differences. An area is the regulation of access to payment activities, or hawala activities, which are currently outside the control of the authorities. Lowering the registration and authorisation requirements and the capital requirement facilitates the lawful operation of that type of business. Many people today rely on the kind of payment services to send money home to the family living in a country without a functioning banking system. It is important that the activities now covered by the law are also subject to accounting and auditing obligations, to the rules on money laundering and to the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority, in order to prevent the transfer of funds for terrorist purposes or money laundering, but to assist those who contribute to family residence in countries with poorly functioning banking systems. The matter has been widely discussed and the hearing bodies are generally in favour of the amendments proposed, and no one opposes the proposal. As rapporteur of the case, I have met with Norwegian Somali interest groups, who are also very pleased that the company is now coming under the law. However, they ask questions about the maximum amount of 5 million transfers. kr per month for the individual enterprise. They remind us that money is also sent to operate schools and hospitals in their home country, and therefore they think the amount is too low in view of that type of business. This I assume that the Council of State has taken part in the further work on the matter. Another area in which changes to the Finance Act are proposed is the Securities Trading Act on the sale of financial instruments not owned, so-called short selling. The Committee is not fully integrated in the view of this instrument, but the majority of the Committee supports the amendment. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the legislative amendment proposals entail an appropriate tightening appropriate to limit the risk of short selling, by extending the scope of the law to any investor who sells financial instruments to the investor who does not own them. The majority of the Committee also supports the provision of financial supervision with the grounds for temporarily prohibiting the sale of financial instruments by the seller. Under special concerns, such as: in the case of financial crises, which hit us as late as 2008, and which is why we remember well, normal market mechanisms can cease to work. The temporary prohibition of short selling may then be appropriate and the majority considers that the proposed amendments to the rules related to short selling will help to strengthen confidence in the securities market. The minority in the Committee will address their views and justify them. Furthermore, amendments to the Swedish Securities Trading Act rules on reporting obligations, amendments to the Securities Trading Act and the Financial Supervision Act relating to the transfer of prospectus control by Oslo Børs to the Financial Supervisory Authority, etc. are proposed. Furthermore, there is the creation of incubators in the Securities Trading Act and the Stock Exchange Act, changes in the statutory auditor’s law relating to the implementation of Directive 2005/36/EC, the Professional Qualifications Directive, and there are changes in the real estate law relating to the implementation of Directive 2005/36/EC, the Professional Qualifications Directive. Furthermore, there are changes to the rules of the real estate law on the winding-up of real estate undertakings, self-trading and professional persons, as well as to the professional secrecy of auditors vis-à-vis third-country supervisory authorities. The majority of the Committee subscribes to all proposed changes, while a minority have their own proposals for some of the amendments. But there is no major disagreement about the proposals for changes that I have registered. We deal with an aggregate proposition with many changes in a complex area such as the Finance Act. With the financial turmoil we experienced in the financial crisis in 2008 and also now experienced in the context of the major debt problems of several countries in Europe, we see the benefits of good and well-managed legislation and supervision of financial markets. Through the changes we are making today, and also changes that are announced will come, we are helping to create safe frameworks around this type of activity in our own country. It helps to strengthen confidence in an important industry, and this is in line with a long tradition we have in Norway with a well-regulated financial market. We can be proud and happy that we have such a tradition, and we now see that the EU and the United States are working on a new piece of legislation to improve control of financial markets in recognising that banks and markets cannot control themselves. With this, I recommend the Committee's position on the matter of amendments to the Financial Activities Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e984	Let me start by thanking the President-in-Office for a thorough review of a complex proposal in many ways. There are many aspects that are addressed in the case. I also agree with what the rapporteur said at the outset, that in most areas the Committee is unanimous and united, and where we disagree, the disagreement may not be so great. I also just want to say that I am very happy that a system has now been put in place as quickly as the government has done in terms of hawala activities and this with transfers within such systems. I think you've got a good system in place, and I'm glad you got it in place as quickly as you actually did. Then I would like to make a few comments on a few points in the matter of temporary bans on short-trade, where perhaps there is the greatest disagreement in the committee's position. The Progress Party did not want to go into the government's proposals. In the context of the consultation relating to the proposal, there was a large gap between the Hearing Officers in terms of changes to the Securities Trading Act for short selling. The background was that internationally there is a debate and an open question of short selling seems stabilising or destabilising in the markets, and we wonder, therefore, that the ministry does not have a research-based review of the topic. Knowledge of short selling and its effects is low in Norway and without such a broad, knowledge-based review of the theme, it is easy to blame short selling for the impact on markets that have quite different causes. Furthermore, in line with what we have written in the matter, I note that there are no figures or reviews in the government's communication that say something about the size and scale of short sales in Norway today or at the beginning of the financial crisis. Security of settlement and risk are major short selling challenges, but the conclusion of the Progress Party is that we want a broader review of the theme to be sure that the measures taken are effective and targeted without compromising the efficiency of the market. The granting of access to temporary short-trade bans by the Financial Supervisory Authority is in dispute among the Hearing Officers. It should be noted, inter alia, that: that the financial supervision has not argued convincingly about the need for access to impose a temporary prohibition on short selling, that the market effect of the prohibition imposed in the financial crisis is unclear, and that there are major challenges in limiting the prohibition in relation to the types of instruments included. In principle, it is challenging to give a supervisory authority a unilateral right to such drastic action in given situations without having clear guidelines as to what could trigger a ban. I also notice that Oslo Børs is also in doubt whether a restraining house is suitable and necessary. A temporary ban could present major challenges to many investors and provide unintended results in relation to positions they have entered into. The financial crisis was an extraordinary situation. Markets have now largely stabilised and the temporary bans imposed and some temporary measures introduced have been repealed and expired. In the EU and the United States, there are discussions about restrictions on short selling. The Progress Party considers that a common approach is sensible and does not consider it wise to introduce a specific regulation related thereto. We should await the final conclusions of the EU and the United States, and Norway should then follow the consensus. This will create a level playing field for everyone. Our conclusion, therefore, is that we should make time for a thorough and research-based review of experience before presenting changes to the law, and we have therefore proposed in the vote that the government should come to Stortinget with its own case on the effects of short-trade on the markets based on the experience of the financial crisis, and that the need for drastic measures such as the imposition of temporary bans must be part of this review. Furthermore, we also propose that the government initiate a common European/international approach to possible regulation in relation to short selling. Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Advance Party in the vote either alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1007	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1010	I would like to agree that there was a proper review of the case rapporteur. I want to start by discussing what the right proposal is with the left hand side, so I won't forget it at the end. There are a number of changes in the case, and there are a lot of things that we agree on completely. I think we've learned a lot too. Hawala business was not what we were most familiar with, but it is a very interesting world – a very vital world for those who depend on it. And I have the impression that everyone is interested in – and thinks it’s good – that it’s being regulated. But what you might have commented on is that here it has to be followed up and see if you've done the right thing, for example. with the restrictions. And it's more of a recommendation to the government to follow up the legislation, so it works according to purpose. The same applies in this case with payment activities. There has been some concern among the competition consultation bodies. It is natural, because it is not appropriate to have more payment systems. You have to follow the considerations that, among other things, Competition supervision has an impact on competition and equal access to systems and such things. I would point that out a little bit before I go over to those things where there's some disagreement. Short sales covered Leirstein quite in depth, but it's really a very interesting time we're in now, with such a big deal in the financial markets. And as Leirstein says, you discuss the effects of short selling, whether it seems stabilizing or destabilizing in the markets. See for example: in Germany’s introduction of a ban on uncovered short selling, as far as I know – as there is now quite a consensus here – created a very high level of uncertainty. And looking a little bit at how, among other things. The uncertainty now turns out in the markets, I think would be quite interesting. I noticed during the hearing with the Governor when we had a hearing on the State pension fund and the financial market notification, that he underlined the need for research and more knowledge in a number of these areas, and it had to be the recommendation to the Government that we should keep an eye on what is happening in the markets, quite carefully. I think in many ways that the debate tends to shoot the pianist because the piano is out of tune. Speculation, of course, is often a result of large market imbalances, and there is no doubt that there is a policy at the bottom of too much of the imbalance that exists. What is happening in Greece and in southern Europe is more likely to indicate that Europe has had low growth and low capacity to take international competition over a long period of time, and the fact that it has joined Eurocooperation has created explosiveity in full cooperation. I think that these are very important issues to follow on and perhaps also to use as examples of research, so that the right tools can be found. We are sceptical about introducing a law giving access to the temporary ban on short selling, precisely because that type of grip tends to create greater uncertainty and perhaps greater market offshoots than it would have done without. It could also create significant problems for single investors on the market in certain positions. That's the background of our skepticism, and we should have liked to see you come back with a review of the whole problem, so you could know a lot more. So that's the next one. This applies to administrative penalties for infringements. It's a big problem, and we see it coming back. It is also revised in the context of gas sales. There, administrative sanctions are also to be used as a type of criminal exercise. It should be remembered that there has been a case in the Ministry of Justice for seven years after the use of administrative sanctions by the Stortinge at the beginning of the 2000s. Well, that's going to go all the way down to the Constitution. Paragraph 96 of the Constitution states: "No one can be judged without law, nor punished without judgment." That was the objection when the investigation of this case was started. When it's taken seven years, it illustrates that it's a rather difficult problem. We do not think that the use of administrative sanctions should be increased until a fundamental review of the whole issue has been carried out. The last thing I'm going to comment on is a prospectus check, that it's being transferred from Oslo Børs to the Financial Supervisory Authority. We have no objection to that. But it is important that it is done in such a way that it does not increase the cost of business and those who use it. We think it is quite special to also introduce access to the Financial Supervisory Authority to bill any loss on the service of all listed issuers. I can hardly imagine that you're going to give blank authorization to all companies in Norway that are running a deficit, to bill customers and offset the deficit on them. That's a little bit of the same thing. At least you have to be so careful that it is the issuers who have actually used it that have to be invoiced. But the whole principle is wrong, because here is a good historical cost overview through the service that Oslo Børs has provided over several years. They say that the risk of a deficit should be small. We see no reason to open up the kind of after-invoicing from the Financial Supervisory Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1037	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1040	First, to the Securities Trading Act and short selling. Short selling of securities is a sale in which the seller does not own the security at the time of conclusion of the sale agreement – in other words, the seller wonders whether the share or bond will fall in value. The German authorities have decided to impose a partial prohibition on the short selling of individual shares. They justify the prohibition with the very unstable conditions of the market and state that short selling on a large scale could compromise stability throughout the financial system. This leads the authorities of other European countries to express themselves very critically about the behaviour of the German authorities and to implement measures on their own without conferring to other countries. I guess it's just like hearing the discussion here today, where the Progress Party and the Right in today's big thing doesn't want us in Norway to evolve in the same direction as the German experiences. Similarly, on 20 May, the United States Senate adopted the most extensive change in the regulation of the US financial industry since the 1930s. The reform includes, inter alia: that deposit banks are prohibited from trading in property values, the establishment of a State body for the improvement of consumer protection and the power of the authorities to acquire systemically important companies. The news was poorly received in the markets and contributed to the sharp fall in the stock values of US stock exchanges on Thursday. So the American authorities still choose to do this. It's exemplary. This is a matter of course necessary in order to strengthen confidence in financial markets. And that's important what's happening in the United States. In the 1930s, the Americans got their Glass-Steagall Act, which contributed to stable financial markets for nearly 60 years. Then it was replaced by the experiment in the 1990s that has now proved not to work. It is therefore important that the Norwegian Financial Crisis Committee carefully review this and dare to be system-critical and systemic, so that we can achieve a completely different form of stability in the financial market than we have now experienced. Only it will be responsible policy. Another field that I would like to devote some words, which is not in this joint proposition, but which is very adjacent, is a matter within the scope of the Financial Contracts Act, which is within the Ministry of Justice. Under the Financial Contracts Act, the Banking Complaint Board, which was approved at kgl, belongs. Resolution of 19 May 2000. It is the consumer's complaint subject for banking, financial and mutual funds matters. It is a dispute resolution body set up by the Principal Organisation of the Financial Industry, the Savings Bank Association of Norway, the Association of Financial Companies, the Association of Securities Funds and the Consumer Council. Organisation and financing may call into question the independence and stability of the Board of Directors and the Secretariat of the Banking Complaint. Not least the so-called Røeggen case showed this, to the surprise of many. At the Røeggen case, the then manager of the bank complaint stated that he would refuse to deal with the complaint because the matter was too complicated. Yeah, stick it! The matter was too complicated, but later, after considerable pressure, the matter was taken up and received its treatment. It is important that the subject of banking complaints be examined. It is, as I said, governed by the Financial Contracts Act, which falls within the Ministry of Justice, while the various complainants have their public anchor in the Consumer Council, which is governed by the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. It is an important principle that the relevant industries cover the significant costs of dealing with complaints arising from their own activities. This should be financed by a levy linked to the turnover of the companies involved in the industry and managed by public bodies, so that we can have a haphazard handling of the cases. The professional complaints students exist alongside, and capture a large part of the disputes that are not dealt with in the Public Consumer Dispute Committee, provided for in the Consumer Dispute Act. There is now a review in a NOU coming to the fall, of this issue, the Public Consumer Dispute Committee and the various bank complaints. It's in place, for example. in the light of the example of the Raeggen case, to look through the organisation, financing and transparency of further work of the Banking Complaints Office, because it is very important to ensure that consumers' interests are safeguarded in an area that is very complex and that is difficult for most people to have full access to without having a secure public body to look after it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1053	Until the last time the representative Lundtigen was involved, namely consumer protection and deposit protection: it is an important issue for the government. It is also an important topic that is being discussed internationally. Because there is no doubt that needing through and down to the core of all the different products that have gradually arrived and that come into the financial market is not the easiest thing in the world. I would like to add some comments to a few comments in the vote - an attitude that is otherwise very good, and which brings up the government's proposal, with a slightly variable majority. I think that the setting in a good way brings out what is important in the matter. With regard to the so-called hawala business, I would just like to acknowledge, in relation to the comment from the minority, that we will follow closely to ensure that the proposal produces the desired effect. That's essentially what's the point. That means we have to follow up the legislation. This will also be done by the Financial Supervisory Authority through its supervisory role in relation to its activities. As far as payment services are concerned, it is of course, in my view, that one must ensure that competition works in that market, and we should also try to do so in the best possible way. When it comes to short selling, I'll make some comments about it. Norway has a long history here. We had a total ban on short selling between 1918 and 1997. And there was a reason why such a ban came in 1918; it came as a heavy experience of what happened during the first world war, and the great wave of speculation that then prevailed over the country. So when one in 1997 opened up for so-called covered short selling, it was in many ways a kind of liberalisation of the long historical line of short selling in Norway. What is now happening is that one also extends the prohibition of so-called uncovered short selling by investment firms to uncovered short selling outside those undertakings. Other: With regard to the proposal on the authorisation of the Financial Supervisory Authority to refuse short selling in very special cases, this is likely to be a ban that will be dealt with with with carefully. I don't think there's going to be a ban that's going to be very much used, at least I hope so. It shall only be used in exceptional cases. It is also referred to a case in the proposition, where a actually traded shares in a company where the number of shares to be traded was much higher than the number of shares available and registered in the company. Otherwise there's a pretty interesting work going on at the international level. The European Securities Regulators Committee has proposed common European rules on information obligations relating to short selling. The same Committee will also consider broader pan-European regulation in this area. For example, in the case of so-called uncovered short selling, countries such as Switzerland, Japan, the Netherlands, Australia and now Germany such a ban, while in many other countries there are quite strict rules on flagging. What we want to do on the part of the government is look at the developments now taking place in the European Union, and we will consider following up on further action if one agrees on it at European level. So a little bit about reporting. It is a difficult area, and, as was said, there is an investigation here from as far back as 2003. What is an important point is that punishment today is the only sanctioning option. What one then looks at, and wants, is whether an infringement fee should be a proper response for minor infringements of the obligation to notify. There is already a rule for such a fee in the Securities Trading Act that relates to similar matters. However, we will review whether the rules on the infringement fee in the Securities Trading Act should be amended when the investigation of the Sanctions Regulatory Committee may be followed up by a legislative proposal at a later stage. Finally, let me just say a few words about the international situation. Last week I attended a major international conference in Berlin, as part of the preparations for the G20 meetings in Seoul and Toronto. The theme here was regulation, supervision and control of the financial market in the light of the knowledge and experience that could now be drawn from the financial crisis. There is a strong international commitment in this area, and there is a strong willingness to try to adopt laws and regulations and to align itself in such a way that one does not reverse the mistakes of yesterday. This is a position which is strongly anchored in heavy political circles, not just in Europe, but in the international sphere. And as the representative Lundtigen now referred to, the American Congress just a week ago adopted the most comprehensive rules on financial market regulation that have been made since the 1930s. So there's going to be a lot going on in this area in the future, and I think it's important for Norway that we keep up with what's going on. There is also a reason why this happens, because what happened during the financial crisis came out of control and has led to such major challenges both for European countries and not least for countries that are much poorer and that we were faced with in a previous case today. So here's not the last word to say either in Norway or internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1079	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1082	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for responding to a lot of the issues raised in the debate on the proposal. When this was the case with the infringement fee, administrative penalties, I registered – and I do not think I heard wrong – that you said something about this sample’s investigation ‘if any’ being followed up with a billing proposal. That work has taken quite a long time, and if I understand correctly, this is in a department other than the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, you probably talk together in the government, and what I'm looking for – and the reason I took a line – is that I want to know if you want to follow up. Is it still the way you want to follow up this work, so that we can get a case related to this, as both the hearing bodies have pointed out and the Stortinge have discussed earlier? Can I get a slightly more complementary answer attached to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1089	That's exactly why I used the term ‘if any’, because it sort under another state council. And even though that council of states is from Hedmark, I still took the small reservation! But I think it's important that this is followed up by a bill. And yes, I'm talking to both the State Council of Storberget and other government councils, so it might be relevant to talk about the question, to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1095	It's good to hear, because I think it's a very important topic to follow up. But I'm going to do something completely different: the U.S. shows up and is used as an example repeatedly. The situation in the United States is a sign of what happens when you have partially unregulated markets, and markets that are quite strictly regulated. So they're a terrible example of Norway. Here, Norway has a huge advantage in many ways because we had our banking crisis already in the 1990s and then got quite a good regulation of financial activities. And that was a little bit of my point: we should use it, that we have quite good regulations in place, to further increase our competence, so that we don't shoot the pianist because the piano is out of tune, because I think that's probably what the debate tends to be about. I just want to ask: is it relevant to continue to invest some resources in just following what is happening in the markets?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1104	With regard to the issue of an infringement fee etc., I agree. This is a difficult matter, and that is probably also the main reason why the matter has taken so long. But then we'll see how we get back to it. With regard to the second part of the question, it is quite right that we were ‘lucky’ in the sense that we could use the experience of the banking crisis in the early 1990s to strengthen both regulation and supervisory activities in Norway. And that is actually a reason why Norway is interesting in the big context – i.e. internationally – and I think it was also a contributing reason why the undersigned were invited to the conference in Berlin, which was really a preparation for a G20 meeting, and Norway is not there. In different contexts, we also try to become members of the different bodies internationally — for example. in the EU – working on these issues, so that one can have a mutual exchange of information, which can beat both ways, and which also helps us to use international experience in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1111	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1129	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3433]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1145	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3433]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1161	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3433]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1177	We are within a period of much consensus in the committee. There is an overall committee which endorses the proposal for amendments to the Central Bank Act, which requires the representation of the Bank of Norway to notify the bank of supervision directly to the Stortinget. Today it is that a message is sent to the ministry, and then to be presented to the King and later made known to the Storting. The Committee also supports the proposal that the Stortinge should provide compensation for the members of the Norwegian Bank’s representation. These changes to the law help to strengthen and clarify the role and tasks of representation as a large-scale body. The amendments will bring the representation more into line with the other bodies and representatives appointed by the Stortinget. The Committee endorses the proposal for minimum reporting requirements to be applied to the Storting and points in particular to the role of Norway’s Bank in managing the State pension fund abroad and the risk to the bank over which it is to supervise. The management of the SPU is of great interest to the Stortinget, and the change with direct reporting will strengthen the Stortingen’s control room for the Fund’s management. It's very positive. As I said, the Committee is unanimous in its position on amendments to the Central Bank Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3433]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1202	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1219	The case concerns loans from Norway to Latvia, and the setting is unanimous, but I just want to briefly go through the background of the case. On 23 December 2008, Latvia concluded an agreement on a stabilisation programme with the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, to deal with an acute financial and balance of payments crisis. The objective of the IMF programme is to stabilise the macroeconomic situation in the country, among others. by supporting Latvia's exchange rate policy through increased foreign reserve assets, stabilising the banking sector, inter alia, by: to nationalise and refinance the largest latviant bank in the country and to secure public finances. The borrowing requirement under Latvia's stabilisation programme is set at 7.5 billion. EUR over the programming period until the end of 2011. The IMF will cover about $1.7 billion. the euro of which. The EU at Community level is the largest contributor of 3.1 billion. euro in loans. In the context of the IMF's examination of the case, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden jointly pledged loans to Latvia for a total of SEK 1.8 billion. euro. The distribution between the four Nordic lender countries of loans to Latvia and Iceland is coherent and, overall, reflects this distribution of the relative shares held by the countries in the IMF. The Norwegian part is set at 378 million. EUR for Latvia and EUR 480 million. EUR for Iceland. In this proposition, the government is asking for authority to enter into a loan agreement of 378 million. EUR from the Norwegian State to the Latvian State linked to the IMF programme, which amounts to approximately Three billion Norwegian kronor. Just a few comments related to the agreement itself: it is quite natural that Norway contributes and lends its share to our neighbouring countries – as Iceland and, to the extent Latvia is – but we should be aware that we also have a responsibility with the policies we ourselves pursue, although we often tend to boast relatively unhindered about our own finances. So we're going with huge profits, even in times of financial crisis, which in itself is contributing to the imbalances that we ourselves want to combat. Because we all know that world trade has to go to zero -- that's a consequence of logical thinking. And it's clear that when we go with billions of profit and many percentages of profit, someone has to go with the corresponding deficit. This happens over time, so we will have to contribute to the imbalances that we ourselves share in creating – although, of course, it is better to go with profits than to go with deficits. But then I also want to present a challenge to the government parties. There is also another way to help in Latvia’s situation, which is struggling with both weak incomes and unemployment and in many other ways. In fact, you could also invite the Latvian construction workers and road workers who do not have a job, but who live on unemployment and poor social security in Latvia, to come here and build the roads we so badly need to build – as the government claims they cannot afford to build, that they cannot build, and we cannot spend money, because we create inflation, etc. But if we had used these workers, let them come here for a period of time, built roads -- they're trained to do it -- go back to Latvia, use their money in Latvia, which is also possible, you could have done this in a different way than just making loans. One could also be active and proactive by inviting Latvian workers to come to Norway. I would also like to say, in general, that it is important that countries do not grant themselves welfare benefits they cannot finance over time. We are also in the process of going a little bit into the oil trap that most people have warned about, but which we are all going into collectively, namely that we are granting ourselves welfare benefits on the operating budget, on the state budget, so that we are not able to finance them when the oil goes empty, or when we cannot afford to finance them any more. Because there's a day when we can't afford it, and that's why we should cut down on the operating side and increase the investment side of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1238	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1254	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1270	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1279	The proposal we are now considering, from the Progress Party, concerns tax relief in the context of wage settlement. The majority seem to mix two things together that really don't belong together. The party of progress is given an explanation of its point of view, and I will explain our principal starting point. Tax papers are important, not least in the Financial Newspaper today, which discusses the dynamic tax effect and the new studies of the Statistical Central Bureau. Here's a lot we don't know, and it's obvious that tax relief works in the economy. There's no doubt about it. But we believe that this should not, in principle, go into the wage settlement. It is the social partners who are responsible for unbundling the payroll through, and the Right will have a clearly separate process on these two things. That is essentially why we reject the proposal, and the other parties have to explain their position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1286	There are essentially two good reasons why this proposal is a bad proposal. The first reason was the representative of Gundersen. politicizing the payroll is something we should stay away from. Historically, the social partners have repeatedly taken over the economic realities facing them, and they have shown responsibilities through a series of settlements. Now one should be careful to predict the year’s settlement – there is a mediation deadline that expires in a few hours, which is exciting – but there is every reason to believe, historically at least, that it will be solved in a good way. The second reason why this is a bad proposal – from the Progress Party again – is that over many months we have now received a number of evidences of a development in the economy that is extremely demanding. We see countries in Europe with a sharp increase in government debt and high unemployment. In the context of the State budget in the autumn, we had a consultation round where a number of actors, such as the governor of the central bank, the NHO and the LO, point out the importance of holding back on the expenditure side of the budget. The same thing was repeated last week through the hearing on the revised and the Governor's visit to the Committee. And again, we see that the Progress Party chooses to make proposals in this room that will increase the cost side of the government budget. It is anti-business, and it would also have a long-term impact – if all of these proposals had gone through – on our employment. The revised budget, presented by the government, shows that we have largely succeeded in keeping high employment and low unemployment. The Progress Party pursues an economic policy that works against this – in proposals on a proposal. I am pleased that the other opposition parties believe that this tax proposal is a bad proposal and chooses to reject it. But it has to be a challenge, perhaps especially for the second large opposition party, the Right, that one is constantly in a constant and sustained gap in economic policy for the two major opposition parties. Of course, it is reassuring for the government parties, if you look forward to the next elections, because there is little evidence that the two parties will be able to agree on an economic policy when one party criticises the government for being too expansive, and the other party says that the government rules as if Norway were a poor country. So these are the two most important arguments that this is a bad proposal and that the government parties will reject it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1297	The President would point out that one would like to disagree with a proposal, but referring to a proposal which, in the President's view, is 'bad' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1300	Unlike the previous speaker, I must say that I think the proposal is very good. When wages and salaries began in the spring – and especially against industry – it was said quite clearly that a wage increase of more than 1.8 pst. would affect the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Now, if we look at what happened in the leading subjects, it actually became a paycheck that was over 1.8 pst. Today we see that there are strikes in some sectors, and we know that there are also strikes in connection with other settlements beyond spring. I understand that it is difficult to do something about this year's wage settlement, which is now in the interview, but at least one could have thought alternative for future wage settlement, to reduce the cost growth/wage growth and promote competitiveness. In particular, in view of the competitive industry, tax policies could have been used and reduced instead of increasing taxes and taxes. It would have been a force. This would have meant that the employee would have been strengthened by a more net return in the wallet, and it would also have been a strength for the competitive industry, by reducing the cost level. I think it is a pity that you are not willing to look at alternative ways to both secure Norwegian jobs and at the same time maintain the purchasing power of the workers in this country. I also registered that the Minister of Finance, among others. were concerned about a sharp increase in social security expenditure. We know – in a matter that comes to Stortinget a little later – that the social security system is also regulated according to wage developments. If tax havens had also been given, there could have been a better net purchasing power – including those dependent on social security schemes – while not increasing the expenditure of the state in this area. But instead I record that the sitting government has also chosen completely different methods, by rather going the wrong way, with increased taxation. And that's something that at least the Progress Party thinks is regrettable. We should have liked to have given this proposal a much more thorough treatment, and taken it into account in the payroll that starts next year. With that, I allow myself to record the proposals of the Advance Party that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1315	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1318	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but I have to say that I'm reacting to a little bit of the logic of some representatives in the room here. It is true that we have a state that has a huge surplus – several hundred billion dollars – and then we have a business that is struggling, that cannot sell its goods, because the goods become too expensive. They can't export them. And then it turns out that the growth in earnings in Norway has been more than ten percent higher than in our competitors. And what's the reason for that? Well, it's because the wage costs have become too high, so the goods are getting more expensive, and then you can't export, because you're losing the competition. At the same time, we have, in parallel, a government budget that goes with hundreds of billions in surplus, which we place in our competitors' businesses abroad. Try to think the reasoning out completely, and say, how are we going to get something more of the huge profit that comes from oil and gas primarily, so that we can help our businesses so that they are still competitive in the future, and get a lower tax level? It does not matter to the employee whether the extra crown in the wallet comes from an increased extra crown or whether he pays a penny less in tax. The most important thing for the employee is that he has better purchasing power. And he gets that through this proposal. Even if it can't happen in this payroll, it's a thought not to get stuck in old patterns where we say that this is a settlement that happens between employers' association and employee union. We can think of new things in this country, because we're going to have so much profit that we have to think about alternative things if we're going to maintain competitiveness and keep the jobs we need for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1325	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3435]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1341	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1350	The background to the case is a proposal from Mr Tenden and Mr Skei Grande. The proposal refers to the Storting climate agreement, which set the target of cutting between 15 and 17 million tonnes of domestic climate emissions. The road transport sector accounts for 19 p.m. of these climate emissions. A cut in road transport emissions will be necessary to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement, writes the proposers, and there is no problem in agreeing with it. Cars that can be loaded can make an important contribution to the achievement of these objectives are further pointed out. It is also not difficult to agree. The proposal then contains a number of different measures that could increase the use of electric cars, especially in the public sector. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party indicate in the vote that there are a number of incentives to choose an electric car today and that the issue of extending the tax exemption to car leasing was addressed in 2004. At that time, the conclusion was that direct aid schemes were preferable to an extended exemption. The majority of the Committee, with the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that it is necessary to provide for more people to move to non-fossil fuels, and that it is important that the public go ahead and choose electric cars. This majority refers to the treatment of taxes and taxes in the State budget, and in the context of the 2011 State budget we have a review of all fuel taxes. The members of the Committee from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left also indicate that it is a political desire to get more people to buy electric cars. The members of the Progress Party say that large parts of the public car fleet are currently used in home-based services, which depend on good performance in winter. They therefore point out that there is a need to make four-wheeled cars more reasonable. In addition, individual parties will present their proposals. There are now nearly 2,900 electric cars in Norway. It might seem like a modest number, but relative to the population, we actually have a pretty high share of electric cars. But there's no reason to be satisfied. It's also just 2 pst. of the electric cars owned by the public sector. I have been fighting for 20 years in municipal policy – for 20 years while there have been electric cars – for the municipality to buy electric cars. I have to say that part of the resistance to buying electric cars, e.g. to home-based services, in the cities amazes me. Last Wednesday we had an opportunity in Tønsberg City Council – where I am a member – where it was about the purchase of 45 electric cars, but which were not part of the framework agreement that made it possible to buy electric cars. It is not that electric cars are more expensive to buy. They'll be able to compete with fossil cars at price if they just get out. In addition, they are much cheaper to operate. Most of the car fleet in the public sector should be electric cars, but scepticism has been great. However, it may appear that something is about to be released. During 2011 and 2012, most major car manufacturers will bring their own new electric cars where we have to expect improved performance. We also have three Norwegian manufacturers of electric cars. Then also plug-in hybrids come on the market next year. In the long term, SV believes that the market for small cars should be largely covered by electric cars, while larger cars should be able to use biofuels. So SV agrees that the public should facilitate increased sales of electric cars. The current fee exemption is significant. In addition, we should have measures through Transnova, such as grants for the development of charging stations, which were a success. While we are sceptical about further eroding the charging policy, we believe that grants and more targeted actions will be more effective. But it is in any case proposals that belong to the ordinary state budget. I note that there is a willingness to invest in electric cars in all the political parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is therefore concerned that SUVs and other four-wheel motor vehicles are too expensive. In addition, they are concerned that the competitive advantages of petrol and diesel will be weakened. The last one is worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1371	As the rapporteur for the case, Mr. Aegean, it is true that there are nearly 3,000 electric cars going around the Norwegian roads. It's also true that there are quite high numbers, measured against the number of inhabitants in the world context. I believe that many of these cars have come on the road because the political authorities have arranged for zero-emission cars in the form of electric cars on Norwegian roads. Egeland presented several of the benefits of electric cars today. There is an extensive utility around them – both on the charging side and on the accessibility side of traffic, with parking, etc. However, despite extensive tax advantages and other advantages, it was that in 2008 it was 99,5 pst. of the cars sold, combustion cars. It tells us something about that although we are now quite sure about the breakthrough of the electric motors – in terms of both the range and the type of cars that can come for sale – we have to take into account that by 2020 a large number of cars sold will still be cars with internal combustion engine or combinations of internal combustion engine and other types of availability. Therefore, I believe that when we discuss the framework conditions for electric cars – which is important – we must also take into account what I say about ensuring that we know the cars to be phased in by 2020, when the climate agreement aims to reduce emissions from road transport in Norway. We have to make sure to have two tanks in our head at the same time – both to phase in several electric cars or other types of zero-emission cars and to get cars entering the market with about 100 grams of CO2 per km. This number has to increase considerably – yes, much more than the cars that are phased out. If we can combine these two things, I think we have good opportunities to achieve the climate agreement's objectives. I have to admit that I am skeptical about – after many years of extensive tax advantages – that several such advantages are the solution for this type of car in Norway, that it is the way to go. I have more faith in other advantages, for example. grants are now granted in Oslo for the establishment of publicly available charging stations. I think a lot of people are worried about how to charge a car like this all over the world. In Buskerud, my home country, energy companies have, in cooperation with the county municipality, created a charging station outside the county building. I don't know if it's to attract more visitors to the county hall or if it's for the employees, or what. That's definitely the last one. Not least in the 2009 package of measures, the government granted 50 million. kr for the expansion of the type of charging stations for electric cars and plug-in hybrids. I do not know if the case rapporteur was involved, but we are soon up in 2,500 such charging stations in Norway. It's very, very good. Let's move on along that track and wish with our whole heart that now comes the big breakthrough, not least on reach, because that's what's been the main problem of the electrically driven cars so far – so that more than just those who live in the cities, can use them, in confidence that you'll both get to work and back again. But finally, I would like to stress again that although I believe that we should defend the benefits of the zero-emission cars – because it is a completely separate category – we also have to assume that more people have to move over to driving collectively. We also have to run less, if we're going to achieve the goals we've set ourselves in the climate deal. The problem with today's development is that although average emissions of CO2 per car per km driven are now falling, emissions are increasing marginally. That's because we're running more than we've done before. I had a lot of faith in electric cars. I hope now that it's coming, that it's going to be a real drag, a real breakthrough. But I think we can say with our hands on the heart that at least it should not be on the authorities regarding the organisation of that type of car in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1388	As many people have been in today, there are strong incentives to choose an electric car. The charging system exempts the electric car from non-recurring taxes, VAT and user charges. In addition, the electric car is charged the lowest annual tax rate. There are also a number of other favourable schemes for electricity owners, such as: right to drive in public fields, free parking and free passage in bombing rings. In total, this constitutes substantial aid for the purchase and use of an electric car. The exemption from the one-off fee alone represents a space between NOK 20 000 and NOK 50 000 per person. electric car. The annual savings of the reduced annual fee are NOK 2 400. In addition, when passing a toll station, costs and funding are transferred from the electric car driver to the fossil fuel car user. I understand that the representative of Aegean has not come to realize that the Progress Party is for the arrangements that are, and not against, them. I'll take note of that. There are many different needs that come to mind when choosing the car and the car type. Electric cars have, as I said, great advantages over fossil fuel cars through different schemes. It is important to be able to build up a charging system and a level of charges adapted to users, which is not the case today. The proposers write in the document that they wish to introduce a subsidy scheme for electric cars according to the Enova model and that it is to be financed by charges on rechargeable fuels. This means that those who need a car have to pay more for the fuel. Large parts of the population live in the districts, places where it is not possible to use an electric car, places where it is not possible to take public transport. So they have to pay even more to get into the center, into work, and into the acting when the kids go there. It is not a policy behind the Progress Party. In addition, large parts of public car use are today owned by municipalities. A large part of the car fleet is used in home-based care, which also affected the Aegean. I have also been approx. 20 years in municipal policy, and in the area I live, cars with quadruples are mostly used. It's not because I want to support SUVs or other cars, but I want that when you need home help at fixed times to get medical treatment, tablets or other treatment you need, that home care should be there. When you're about to get there, it's not useful to stand in a snowmobile with an electric car without electricity. That's what's behind me wanting you not to do this. This type of car is bad compared to the charging system. This leads to extra costs both for municipalities and for individuals around. Such a scheme, outlined by the proposers with an increase in the fuel tax to finance the scheme, will provide large cost increases both for municipalities and for individuals. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that it is important that a broad analysis be made of the level of charges and the different systems for car and car use, but then with a view to reducing the charge, so that the population can live where SV and the Centre say that people should be allowed to live if they want to, i.e. in the districts. Today it is expensive to live there. I don't know if the representatives have brought it, but it's a very large moving flow from the districts and into the centers. Expensive fuel is one of the reasons for this. We want to make it easier for people to live more fully where they want to live. We are proposing this. I would also like to point out that there is today an exemption from VAT on the purchase of an electric car, but if the customer chooses to lease the car, VAT will be calculated. I therefore believe that the purchase and leasing of an electric car should be treated in the same way and therefore support Part II of the proposal for a representative. In addition, I will refer to the dilemma as the magazine Capital No. 9 for this year goes forward, that we are not self-sufficient in power. In practice, in the event of a massive switch to electric cars, these could in practice be supplied with electricity from highly polluting gas power plants or coal-fired power stations in Europe, because we have to import the electricity. I think the greatest reduction in environmental gases will come from the development of new technologies that lead to lower consumption of the existing fossil fuel-based engines, with a certain amount of electric cars either in the form of regular electric cars or with plug-in cars. I take up the proposals No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1409	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1412	The representative's proposal to have an increased focus on the use and purchase of electric cars is to be taken by the government because the Stortinget sends a signal that we are impatient. The chairperson of the Financial Committee comes with quite correct figures that 99,5 pst. of all cars purchased in Norway, do not go on electricity. There are numbers that Storting must be dissatisfied with. Then you have to be positive about going through some of the legislation. It looks like a lot of people are skeptical about using an electric car because you've never used it. With regard to one of the proposals on which the Right is involved, we have said that equalising purchase and leasing is actually a point – as we have said in connection with the state budget and also revised budget – because very many people can use electric cars as part of a business car package. Others can use an electric car for the rental of a car as their first meeting with an electric car and thus be tempted to do something new. With regard to the discussion of the government's crisis package that a good amount of money was to be spent on new charging stations around the country, the latest figures show that very many of the money is actually unused, that we are unable to spend the money. It's something that the government should be apprehending reasonably immediately. That is why the Right is included in the proposal to remove VAT on leasing, because there we should have a non-discrimination, that is quite logical. The proceeds are very modest, so the government parties should be able to attend today. The proceeds are so small that the word ‘declared’ is too messageed in relation to the leasing of batteries. It's hardly so that it can be noticed in a state budget post. So there's something we could think of as being on. We have had the same arguments in connection with the state budget, but I could imagine to draw attention to perhaps a slight misunderstanding in one of the comments in the vote on the Stortinget that we are dealing with today. On page 2 of the setting, the right hand side originally wrote some notes at the bottom of the left column. This is actually to the Left and perhaps to the Christian People's Party, because it says that the parties are in the Right's view that today's support schemes, combined with those proposed today, are good enough measures, and that we are therefore voting against the Left's proposal on fleet operations. Now, look at that, because the left hand side is in the description of it. In the case of public fleet operations, several speakers today have noted that there are a number of aid schemes for the use of electric cars. Moreover, it is the case that individual municipalities, county councils, or enterprises or whatever they may be have to consider this for themselves without having any further comments. In addition, we know that many municipalities, including Oslo, have a stake in natural gas as a fuel source. It's very good for the community as well. In addition to that, we know that repeatedly in this room we have had discussions about biofuels. So here's a lot of ways to measure. The right has said that we do not want to focus on how the municipalities govern this – it is the state that is going to bring about the framework conditions – and do not influence it in any other way than this. We believe that these proposals, which are being passed through to Stortinget today, are modest and reveal two small deficiencies, namely the problem of non-discrimination between purchase and leasing, not least the knotty proposal for the leasing of batteries on the cars. They are so small that even the representatives of the government parties should be able to vote on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1427	Switching to electric cars is a significant change, and as everyone understands, it will mean some time, so that you have in place all the parts needed for it to be done in a safe and secure way. In order to achieve that transition, an unforeseeable framework must be in place, on the contrary, with foreseeable changes in the framework conditions. Only foreseeable changes in the framework conditions provide security for both the manufacturer, industry and individual car owners. So we have to decide on today's situation, what is the goal of the future, and the rate of change we want to achieve the goal. We have to see the whole, we have to see alternative transport sources. In this area, as in other areas of transport, we need to see a whole, where a user uses whips on some energy sources or car sizes and carrots on others to develop the most favourable behaviour. Electric cars are currently treated very favourably, I would like to underline – very favourably. It is not a one-off charge, it is not a VAT, it is not a user charge, it is the lowest annual tax rate, it is a right to drive in the collective fields, free parking and free passage in the bombings. What else is then to demand? Well, there have been suggestions to demand more. I want to say before I go into it, that it is absolutely right that one has low introduction charges on electric cars. If one looks forward to achieving a goal, one must also be very clear that the charges will increase. It is not right over time that electric cars should be exempted, for example. for VAT and user charges. When one reaches the target, and one comes up to a certain extent of such cars, one must say right from the point of view that then we also get an increase in the charges. So we're going to get to a different behavior, and we're going to fund the goods that are needed through car traffic. With regard to the two concrete proposals, the government parties do not agree with them. I just want to say briefly that it is not appropriate to have subsidy schemes for the public procurement of electric cars. There's going to be subsidies to the sea, so it can be arranged in less bureaucratic ways. And entering into the tax exemption on leasing is both complicating and cannot be a priority tax area for government parties. What is, however, the great need – and there the joyous thing is happening – is the need to improve cars technically. There are the international car companies far ahead. Those with their territory in Norway and in the Nordic countries also influence with their economic power, and it is important to organise it. It is also important to facilitate charging stations across the country, so that this can become an energy form for vehicles that are well usable from Finnmark to the south coast. But, finally, this needs, as I said, its time, and we need new engines that are adapted to our difficult climatic conditions in Norway. That is why we are in a good way here through a very favourable tax administration and a positive attitude from the government. So it's a good citizen in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1448	Thank you to the proposer, who is demonstrating an elusive commitment in this field. It may well have something to do with her being the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Transport in the previous period, too, I think. There are limited proposals put on the table here, but we're not so surprised that they haven't found answers from the majority. A proceeds of this will be very limited, and Lundtegen said clearly that this was not a priority. We'll take note of that. There is no doubt that electric cars are in a very favourable situation in terms of taxes — both VAT and a one-off charge — so much has already been provided for the use of electric cars to increase considerably. It should be said in the name of truth. Then you can ask yourself, why hasn't the use increased more than it has? I think that simply depends on the capacity of today's electric car park, not least how many people can drive in these cars, and how long it goes between each charge. So this is also a call for manufacturers to make this more attractive, more is required by their side as well. The authorities have largely set up fiscal policy levels, positive, so that there is not so much more that can be done from a political point of view. But these two, three little proposals could perhaps contribute a little bit further. In the spirit of brotherhood, I take up the proposal that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind, and that the representative left Kambe to the undersigned to take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1463	Then the representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal he himself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1467	I believe – and hear here today – that there is a common goal for everyone in this room that we should have as many environmentally friendly cars as possible rolling on our roads. There are a lot of ways to get it done, but I'm going to leave that whole discussion. Our main concern with the document we are now discussing is to promote measures to increase the use of electric cars, not least in the case of the public car park. Here it is a great, undissolved potential. The question is how this can be solved. Numbers from Norstart show that the government owns no more than 66 electric cars. The large potential for electric cars in the public car park has not been removed. Of the 2,850 electric cars in Norway, 98 are owned. by individuals and enterprises, while only 2 pst. owned by the public, to which several have been admitted today. Up to 60 pst. by the public car park could have been replaced by electric cars. It would correspond to nearly 6000 vehicles. Today is just 0.6 pst. electrically powered by the public car park. The Green Car project has, through a study, mapped to 90 pst. of the public car park in Norway operates less than 10 miles per day, well within the reach of today’s electric cars. Therefore, one of the arguments put forward by the government parties is that the public does not choose an electric car for practical reasons such as: range, irrelevant. There is also reason to refer to the climate agreement item 6.9, where the contracting parties – all lots with the exception of the Progress Party – agree that ‘public enterprises must be at the forefront of the use of low-emission vehicles in their own activities’. Against this background, I am disappointed that no one other than the Left sees the need for a subsidy scheme, so that, in particular, the municipal sector is given an additional incentive to choose an electric car. But first of all, I am disappointed with the government and government parties, as in the position we are currently discussing, not making a single proposal or an indication of measures to increase the public sector's share of electric cars. On the contrary, with a broad brush both by the government council and by the government parties, there are more than enough incentives to buy an electric car. I agree that there are many good measures. Most of the measures listed here today were taken by the previous government. However, it is clear that something needs to be done to ensure that the public assumes its responsibilities. The problem arises when ‘the public itself’, through the government and the Council of State, does not consider that there is a need to do anything. There is also reason to recall that in the work programme of the party to which the rapporteur belongs, the following interesting reading is given on page 17: ‘SV will establish a reward scheme whereby state enterprises and municipalities are supported in purchasing electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars.’ This is strikingly similar to the proposal SV is voting against today, despite the fact that the rapporteur in his speech speaks hot for electric cars in the public sector. It is a strange exercise we are witnessing, but the rapporteur has a good opportunity to explain why he is voting against the Left's proposal here today. The Government Party rejects the proposal on the grounds that taxes and charges are treated in the State budget. This is at best a substitute argument. Firstly, the Committee now has a parallel case for consideration, Prop. 119 LS for 2009-2010, proposing amendments to the VAT rules in the field of culture and sport, with a proceeds of 335 million. DKK annually and approximately 110 million. kr in book power in 2010. By comparison, the proceeds of the value-added changes in the representative proposal will be between 1 and 2 million. kr. Secondly, the proposals put forward in the draft representative are directly linked to the 2011 State budget and the 2010 revised national budget, respectively, and are therefore in line with what the majority points to. I'm finally taking up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1491	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1494	Several have addressed the significant benefits of electric cars in different areas today, so there is no need to repeat it further. There seems to be quite a broad consensus that the measures you are taking today should be continued. And no one has so far raised the issue of significant measures other than that. Then you can wonder a little bit about why there are so few electric cars in use. The chairperson of the Committee — and several others as well — has so far been involved. I think some of the explanation might be that electric cars too have to go through a new development, i.e. on the technology side. And it has e.g. the relationship with the battery capacity, some of which has been involved, and not least with the performance, power and reach of electric cars. So it's probably also that in some contexts, car buyers are a little deterrent. So design is important, I think, to stimulate the purchase and use of electric cars. There are many things that are far beyond what the Stortinge can decide about, but which are more on those who are going to develop the electric cars of the future, their design, etc., in this way. I think it's important to stress that there is a significant technology development in cars that use normal fossil fuels, or cars that use fossil fuels in combination with other fuels. We see more and more examples of getting cars with traditional fossil fuels that supply a lot and use little. The development of engine technology is raging in many areas. This may also be the reason why the large car companies may use limited resources and forces to develop new electric cars. But I think the breakthrough is coming, because it's important that one goes in this direction. So a few arguments that basically contradict additional financial schemes for electric cars: today's schemes are, first of all, comprehensive. It is true that a public company, a municipality or a county municipality that has the choice of buying a normal car and an electric car have the same tax advantages by purchasing an electric car – they are already there today – so that the choice in terms of price should at least be simple if it is considered important to stimulate the use of electric cars. I believe that the individual business must be best suited to assess the type of vehicle to be selected in that context. I do not think there is any reason to conceal – as some others have also been involved – that limited reach, load capacity, passenger spaces, etc. may be the reason why public undertakings today do not choose electric cars. With regard to VAT exemptions, etc., I am quite restrictive, because I believe that VAT exemptions that are not justified for more tax reasons should be avoided. The VAT system is already developing in the wrong direction, with many different rates and many different exemption schemes. I think it is better to use direct support schemes, as one does when it comes to stimulating the use of electric cars. As far as leasing is concerned, we are following the broad road on which the Bondevik government set in in its time. Then one thought that there were not good enough arguments to extend the exemption for electric cars to also apply to rental and leasing. It is not certain that there is always a need for state support to get things to her. The belief in state support in many different contexts is probably also a bit exaggerated. But one could imagine that a revival of the old slogan to think globally and act locally, so that municipalities that in some contexts are asking for permits to introduce environmental measures to limit car use, could actually also see it a little in the big context and say: We can buy electric cars on our own keel without any state contribution beyond what is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1516	There are several people who have been involved, including the Minister of Finance, why things are going slow, even if you're satisfied with the x number of thousands of users today. And yes, we are absolutely sure that design, safety, functionality, reach and infrastructure are important in order to increase the number of electric cars. My question to the Minister of Finance is: After the unfortunate situation of the framework conditions and biofuels associated with the state budget, could the government have lost some confidence in the good conditions that apply to electric cars today, which today make it economically interesting for many? Is it so that quite a lot of people will no longer trust that the government will maintain these arrangements in the next few years, and that this can help to counteract the use of electric cars? The second thing I want to answer is what the Minister of Finance will do to ensure that the money from the crisis budget is spent on infrastructure measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1525	With regard to the first part of the question, there is no plan to change the framework conditions there today. Rather, on a previous occasion, the Minister of Finance has stated that it is also not appropriate to propose the imposition of user charges on electric cars during this period. So that should be a pretty long-term and good signal. Moreover, on the second part of the question, about the crisis measures and resources used for transport and various infrastructure investments, we believe that this will be the case, so that the money allocated to them will be used for the measures to which they have been granted. But if the representative thinks about the transfer of appropriations from one year to another, for example, it is related to the fact that there are large projects, which make it always a little because what this down on the one hand or on the other side of a turn of the year – but I am not sure if that was what the representative meant? But then he might have the opportunity to ask again, so I can give a new answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1532	I hear the finance minister repeat that each business is best suited to assess such issues, i.e. whether to buy an electric car or not. And then he's busy with design, that car owners are a little crazy and want fancy cars. After all, a lot of fancy electric cars have arrived – not all equally beautiful, I agree with the Minister of Finance. But I'm busy with the public. Does the Minister of Finance not see that there is a need for us from the centre to do something to stimulate municipalities and the public to invest in electric cars? It would do a lot for the environment in densely populated areas and cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1539	Now I believe that we are actually doing quite a lot through the measures that are already there today, especially on the purchase side and the benefits that are attached to the use of electric cars, and insofar also benefits that municipalities themselves, or at least toll companies, are helping to finance. So I believe that if the municipalities really want to, there are opportunities within the financial framework that the municipalities have today to think globally and act locally. Otherwise, I believe that, for example. battery technology is coming, it's just looking at what's happening to mobile phones and the development of that kind of technology. It's just a time question, I think, before it gets through also in the case of electric cars. Otherwise, I had the offer to try an electric car that was terribly quassy, but I dared not take the chance. It went from zero to one hundred in less than five seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1546	I noticed that the Minister of Finance stuck to the Bondevik government's wish to go the broad way. I guess there's a lot of us that's learned, that it's easier to follow the broad road than the narrow one. And especially if you're going to drive from zero to one hundred in five seconds, well the road should be reasonably wide! I was going to ask the Minister of Finance about both global thinking and local shopping. I'm not going to challenge the Minister of Finance to replace the black government cars with other types of cars, but what could the departments really do to make sure that the slogan we've all heard for years gets concrete content here as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1553	I believe that the various Directorates, for example, can contribute. We see an example of the contribution of the Climate and Pollution Directorate on the bicycle side. So there's a lot of possibilities. There are no limitations in the ability of a directorate, local institutions and offices in central government to do such things on their own. Of course, what we could contribute to by the government was to make mild and good calls, and perhaps even a little more forceful calls, to do it this way – you don't necessarily have to have a check mark in your back pocket to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1558	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1564	As far as I am aware, the means of crisis response for charging stations have become a great success. I'm absolutely sure that if they're not fully used up now, they're going to be. There are now about as many public charging stations as there are electric cars. It is important to have such an infrastructure. To Kenneth Svendsen, I would like to say that I do not claim that electric cars are usable for all purposes. But I think we can agree that electric cars can be used to a much greater extent than today, and especially in the public sector. There's no doubt about it. It is clear that greater use of electric cars will improve overall emissions from road traffic. So many people have wondered why electric cars are no longer used when the price is so attractive. As far as the public sector is concerned, it probably has something to say that one depends on cars that are being used intensively, one will have no number. 2-car. It might be changing now. But I have sometimes felt that you have to give away the electric cars to the municipalities to get the municipalities to use them. There is a need for a stronger commitment to, and not least, the marketing of an electric car and the fight against the myths associated with electric cars. Arve Kambe is certainly right that many are skeptical precisely because they have not driven an electric car, do not sail in the election campaign. I have talked to home nurses who say that they are fighting to use the one car that is an electric car, while the municipality's management believes that the picture is quite different. An illustration of tax relief is that we now have the funny situation that electric scooters and motorcycles are cheaper than electric bicycles, because on the bike the electric motor is an addition to the ordinary bike. The cars we are now buying are mostly going on Norwegian roads until 2020. That's why it's important, when we're going to have a review of the charging policy, to add to a policy that encourages people to choose cars that don't depend on fossil fuel alone. It could be electric cars, it could be plug-in cars, and it could be so-called flexifuel cars. Otherwise, I want to thank you for your commitment, which has given us a good opportunity to focus on the importance of an electric car. The left is disappointed. Now it is that this case has been raised as a charging case, not as a matter of how – perhaps via the Transport Committee – we could work more to implement an electric car. But I have to say, as a champion of an electric car, I feel good about the setting. We've been told that the government wants more electric cars on the roads, and that's the big majority for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3435]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1599	During the hearing on, inter alia: the financial market message last week, the central bank manager said something that we in Norway should be happy not to do. Greece and the crisis in Europe were key themes, and the Governor of the Central Bank said of Greece: ‘Tax collection is not working. There is corruption in the tax collection.» Fortunately, in Norway, we can see that we have a relatively well-functioning tax system, and we have a high tax morality. That's the way it should be, and we have to work to keep it going. There are now features of today's tax system and challenges in further developing what should be discussed carefully and in principle. Tax evasion must obviously focus on. They have the potential to undermine a system if they develop. However, using too tough instruments and setting aside important legal principles to weaken the legal status of taxpayers and weaken their protection can easily have the same effect. One must therefore also focus on the use and perception of control and instruments to ensure that a tax payer is treated in a fair manner. Tax payers must not be made an enemy, and taxpayers must have the general legal protection and privacy that one expects in a legal state such as Norway, a perspective that almost seems forgotten by the Tax Exclusion Committee. Here there is reason to look at the existing system in the seams and not least look at what will apply in the future. I was startled by the thinking behind many of the proposals of the Tax Exclusion Committee. Measures that are, or are approaching, indication, suspension and punishment before being guilty are totally unacceptable in Norway. This is especially true when it goes down on it one must be able to view as minor offenses. We need to focus more on simplification in the tax system and focus more on some of the existing tax control practices than we do on introducing even tougher ones. An acceptance of the idea of a majority of the Tax Exclusion Committee represents, I think, may quickly rather have the effect of a weakening tax morality and the ability to further develop a well-functioning system than of a strengthening it. I say this with background both in press releases, telephones, e-mails and other enquiries I have received after I became a tax officer in the Right. The evening post could, for example, be on 3 April, the tax liability was cancelled after 15 years, but life was ruined. Another example: an enterprise with relatively complex VAT challenges — VAT. is complicated, as the Council of State was involved in the previous case – had book surveillance when it was in force in 2007. Everything was fine. Then they got book surveillance in 2009. Then there were significant comments, and the result was the opposite. They feel innocent, they don't get clarifications, and the uncertainty is total. Bankruptcy can be the worst outcome. These are people who want to live both with and in the pact with the legislation. Instead, they lose respect for the system. In tax matters, taxpayers have less access to justice than tax authorities do. Additional taxes are levied and interest is calculated long before the case is open to normal review. Even the interest rate is not the same both ways. Otherwise in society, we are concerned with the spread of power. For other criminal offences, the police are investigating, the prosecution authorities are prosecuting, and the courts are judging. In-house taxes are all collected in one establishment. They have been charged, punished and ordered before the case can be brought to court. This is a hazard signal for a system. When the majority of the Tax Exclusion Committee finds it unthinkable to propose that the professional secrecy of lawyers should be waived, while the Tax Code should be able to impose a duty of professional secrecy on third parties, there is a danger. A faulty equation with the addition of additional taxes may mean that the company and the work place are dolled for the person concerned. Finally, there is poor consolation. One might wonder if the principle that you are innocent until proven guilty is reversed in tax. In fact, Norwegian tax administration has already been sentenced four times in plenary and once in the Supreme Court of the Grand Chamber to violate human rights. But for a government that seems to make it a habit to adopt cases to then lose in the Supreme Court, this may not be worrying. However, I am very concerned about the Committee on Taxation's investigation and the proposals they made. I'm afraid they're being put as a back cover for future proposals. Last autumn, individual proposals came from the setting without a comprehensive review of the challenges facing it. All measures may, on an individual basis, seem to be negligible, but the road to hell is, as you know, paved with good intentions. The sample has been criticised for being very skeptical. It was a powerful overweight of the tax haven's people, and it's a paradox that, for example. The data protection was not represented. Many of the sample’s proposals are of great interest to the Data Protection Authority, and they have also been very critical in retrospect. When a panel of 15 members is appointed to deal with issues that necessarily need to be closely addressed on legal protection issues, there is no provision for data protection. The proposals adopted together with the State budget last autumn may have been relatively marginal. But they included, among other things, the liability of any purchaser of cash services for the fulfilment of the tax obligation by the seller, where the sum is more than NOK 10000 during the year. The amounts are low, the control task enormous, and a real follow-up to business and tax payer obligations will be associated with high costs, and the danger is also great that the ordinary taxpayer does not know that responsibility is in place. Diet–benefit seems to be an unknown concept for government in this context. On the other hand, what remains of proposals in the Committee on Tax Exclusion may blow up completely new borders on the Minister of Finance to decide to promote the proposals. The term of office of the sample was in itself special. Hard words are used here. The word ‘tax evasion’ is in itself hard. It alludes to something most of the Nordics think of as a serious crime. But neither the mandate nor the sample seems to take on board the fact that the relationship between the tax haven and the tax payer contains the whole spectrum of mere forgetfulness and ignorance – I recall that a majority of Norwegians do not understand their own self-declaration – to serious, deliberate crimes involving millions of dollars. The committee has not seen the challenges of computer processing and automation giving the majority of completed declarations. Errors may occur in the tax haven's treatment and may not be detected by an ignorant taxpayer. It should also not be undisputed that errors are made in the tax collector's favour. There is a marked difference in the manner in which taxpayers are held liable in relation to the liability of the tax haven. The deadlines for correcting the faults are also not the same both ways. The same instruments shall be used to deal with all types of misconduct and the threat of increased additional tax may affect the normal man. In addition, when the sample proposes the publication of those charged with additional taxes, the sample shows a naïve belief in punishment and hanging as an instrument without reflecting on the force of punishment to the individual. It has not been many years since a governor had to leave because there was a threat of additional taxes on him. The majority of the sample obviously lacked the spinal cord reflex that the use of strong instruments easily leads to some kind of counter-reaction. My second very fundamental and overall objection to the majority of the sample is that you do not see the concerns by lifting the treatment of taxes out of the normal legal principles in Norway: everyone should be innocent until proven guilty. This, of course, is a demanding principle to observe. But it's expensive, and the state has a complicated burden of proof. But in all other areas of society, we live by the principle that it is better for ten guilty to go free than for one innocent to be convicted. Within tax collection — and in particular in the majority’s proposal — there are strong elements of the opposite. You're guilty until you prove your innocence. This is not how we want society to evolve! Obviously, the tax avoidance committee has not seen it as its task to look at some aspects of current practice — whether it is appropriate, or whether the reaction pattern is appropriate. Perhaps we have bigger challenges in ensuring fair treatment of taxpayers in line with common principles of legal protection than we need to be tightened up. Instead, the committee has shown great eagerness to make proposals that, in my view, will brutalise tax collection, break central legal protection and privacy considerations and have the potential to alienate taxpayers. I guess we'll take care of that. A society cannot turn taxpayers into an enemy. Norway benefits from a high level of tax and a high level of Community understanding. Most people also understand that this community needs to be financed and are willing to contribute. I wanted to raise this debate in the hope of focusing on the very fundamental aspects and that there are limits to what means can be used. If I am to give the Minister of Finance advice, it must be to leave the position that is there, to rest in peace, and to start a whole new effort to take the challenges of the system seriously and to strengthen taxpayers' legal protection. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1632	First, I have to be allowed to express that I felt that there was some sort of distrust of the tax haven in the interpellant's posts, i.e. that the tax haven, etc. Don't want people, right? It's a vision that I don't share in any way. Privacy and legal certainty are highly focused in the Tax Act. Then it may well be that you can find – and there are – individual things where this has not been done well enough. Then it is good that in such individual cases one has a legal system that works, so that the cases can have their final decision in the legal system. But I can assure you that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Tax Administration takes it lightly that a person gets the kind of criticism that lies in the case of judges in the Supreme Court. But throughout it is that the tax haven in Norway is of very high quality, and as the interpellant said at the outset, we should be very pleased about that. Indeed, the determination of taxes and taxes is a balance between trust and control. On the one hand, it is based on information from persons and enterprises on their own tax relationships or on the relationships of others in the form of so-called third-party tasks, remuneration tasks, etc. The taxable persons have a comprehensive obligation to disclose information to the tax authorities. This obligation is a fundamental foundation for a well-functioning tax system, and although all, most of them loyally comply with the rules in force, there are enough examples of not all of them doing so and of abducting large amounts of money from the community as a whole. The fight against tax evasion is a high priority of the government, and we are constantly working on different types of tax evasion measures. Therefore, the tax haven has received a significant increase in the allocation of the work to be done. Not least, this has led us to have been able to deploy more resources in recent years in connection with, for example: control, guidance and information among foreign workers. We have made it easier for individuals and individuals to fulfil their obligations towards the tax authorities. An example is the adoption in 2008 of a legislative amendment allowing tax authorities to obtain control information using foreign payment cards in Norway. We've been and are active in international tax havens. We have concluded a wide range of agreements with a number of countries on the exchange of information that are now coming into force. Then it is that tax evasion not only contributes to the avoidance of funds, but it also contributes to an unfair distribution, because those who avoid taxes and taxes turn the burden on law-abiding citizens. Tax exemptions also create unfair competition between traders, where those who cheat gain benefits at the expense of other traders who follow the rules. It is of great importance to the general confidence in the tax system that one can detect tax evasion. The sample starting from the interpellant and the interpellant is the so-called Tax Exclusion Committee, which was mandated to review the rules and possibilities for information and control in the tax and tax systems and then make proposals for action. What is one of the challenges of this attitude, and to the extent that the interpellant has been involved, is that the scope of the proposals is large, and the proposals are different both in character and in scope. It actually requires that individual proposals be examined in more detail. Otherwise, it is important in the tax collection that a non-applying method that suspects taxpayers in general and that leads to resistance and alienation between taxpayers and governments. It is, as I said earlier, a balance between privacy, method and instruments. It is therefore important to design legislation in such a way that it is understood, simple and legitimate and ensures legal certainty for individuals. Control considerations must always be balanced against privacy considerations, i.e.: the protection of individual integrity and privacy. It is also important to avoid control measures that lead to disproportionate burdens and costs on business. In the setting, the selection has pointed to the kind of consideration that governs the recommendations that are made. Then one has made a concrete assessment against the interests that apply to each proposal. Although privacy considerations weigh heavily, the weighing of different types of data protection and control cannot be a general overall assessment of all measures. This is why one has to weigh and assess the individual measures that are relevant. As I said, there are many measures of a different nature. Some have to be investigated further, some are simpler, and some have to actually consider whether to go on with at all, and how to get back to later. I cannot therefore see that an overall assessment of all the proposals would increase the legal certainty of taxpayers in relation to the procedure that the government has now chosen. But then some of the sample’s proposals have such a composition that it is natural and a desire for more overall treatment, for example. of the proposals aimed at the use of cash means of payment, and the establishment of certain rules on how much a person can pay in cash, in order to use that expression, in order to require that a person be able to deduct costs, and the refusal of a deduction of income if the deduction exceeds a certain sum and you cannot prove that that payment has occurred, such as: on payment through a bank. It is such that the individual buyer will always be able to discharge himself from a possible liability by paying via a bank rather than e.g. using cash. These are measures that will come into force from 1 January next year, when the regulations are in place. The government has also introduced measures to limit the volume of currency smuggling and to list a wide range of other proposals from the sample. The Ministry is also working on many of the proposals that have not been promoted by the Stortinget. I would like, among other things: Please note that the Ministry looks at the selection proposal for the introduction of new premises for the collection of control information by the taxable persons themselves and by third parties, for example. other traders. These are proposals that need to be assessed in a separate context, including across the different types of taxation, in order to achieve comprehensive and balanced solutions. Finally, the balance of privacy considerations with the objective of limiting tax evasion has been important in the work on the proposals that the government has so far made. I can assure Interpellanten and Stortinget that this balance will also lie there when we are going to review and evaluate the follow-up to the other proposals submitted by the sample. Although there has not been an overall assessment of all the proposals in one case, this does not mean that the Ministry does not have a comprehensive view of what is happening in the fight against tax evasion, and building up under the legitimacy and generalisation of the tax system among the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1660	I sincerely hope that this is the case that the Department has a lot of attention on building the legitimacy of the tax system. I liked the middle part of the state council's posts well – that is, this by focusing on tax evasion – of course, that's what I stressed. It's very important. Also getting all of these agreements around the tax havens and things like that is a matter of course. I would like to stress that once again, because that is not what the debate is about. So the Council of State also said that an overall review would not have helped to strengthen the privacy side of the debate – I think that's what he said. I think that if you had got an overall review, you might have had a debate around the whole issue. That's what's the point, and that's where I think the Council's answer was weak. One of my main objections is that we have a rather dangerous concentration of power in the system. It's not just me who thinks there's a lot of others who mean it. I said in my main post that all other criminal matters are the police who are investigating. It's the prosecution authority that's suing, and it's the courts that judge. Here you've collected everything in one set. Then I'll take a pretty strong distance from it with a tone of distrust. There is at all no tone of distrust in my post, but I have a very strong scepticism for all systems that gather all power in one hand. It's something completely different. To be met with a mistrust of the whole system in such a debate is a very easy way to dismiss the whole problem, but it does not remove the problem. If you go into the challenges here, it's definitely a big challenge. The reason why I draw attention to it is precisely because I think it's important for both tax morality and the legitimacy of the whole system that we take this seriously. I see individual things as it is, which show that individuals have had a brutal meeting with the whole system, and they have very little to do with. Additional taxes are imposed as a penalty long before it can be checked at all if the tax administration is correct. This is quite serious. So if it wasn't otherwise, maybe we could get a SEFO for the tax haven. Even the police, where there are actually others who judge and follow up the case afterwards, have a separate investigating body if you do wrong. We don't have that in the Tax Agency either. My recommendation is: let us get this debate on a proper basis. Everyone really believes that we should be able to improve the system, based on the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1667	It was good that the representative Gundersen confirmed that there was no underlying tone of distrust. Then we've cleared it out of the way. Otherwise, it is actually one of the strengths of the Norwegian political system is the control that this system can exercise with the administration, and the role that Stortinget has in that context through the reports of the Riksrevision, through the various documents of the Riksrevision and the treatment in Stortinget, where the administration is under political control. There is, of course, a strength that we should also use to build confidence, not least in the tax system and the various instruments and tools that different administrative bodies have against the people and citizens of this country. As I was inside my post, we have listed some of the measures in Prop. S 1 for 2009–2010, and more will come in the future. One is new control services and their assessment, e.g., which was also the subject of the interpellant, lawyers and tax advisers' professional secrecy, which need to be assessed separately, because it is a very difficult and complicated case, where the result is not given in advance. Another thing that is now coming up in the follow-up is the system of approval of cash registers, etc. What we don't want to go further from the sample is the right to deduct private purchases of certain services at home, which are of great concern. There have also been very critical consultation remarks on, for example: to this end, by publishing additional taxes imposed, which were also inherent in the interpellant, and the penalties imposed on third parties in the event of tax evasion. These are difficult areas, and that is also why one has not gone further with it now, because it is not certain that one will go further with such proposals. Otherwise, it is important that people feel that they are being treated fairly in the tax system, that taxes are applied according to ability, that they have a good burden-sharing on the individual to contribute through the tax system. The tax system must be simple, it must be transparent, and it must also be such that people feel that they are getting the service they are going to have in balancing income. I want to say that the way that the Tax Directorate, for example. have managed the introduction of new technologies, including electronic self-declaration, is important in this way. Finally, a point that also helps to build up under the legitimacy of the tax system, and that is that we spend the money properly on the expenditure side through the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1682	Let me just go on where the Council of State left off, because that's how we in this room discuss the expenditure side of the budget more often than the income side. It is often more festive to discuss what to spend money on, but less festive to demand the same funds, for example. in the form of unpopular charges, which we have had a number of discussions about here in the Chamber. But it is an unpleasant truth that you also need an effective control device to collect taxes and taxes, because we need to have a balanced distribution of what people have to contribute to ensure the financing of the community in Norway. As many have experienced in this important interpellation, tax evasion leads to large loss of revenue for the public. When these great values are ignored, it affects each of us. Often they are big, but they are small too. I would say it so strongly that I believe that having an effective collection of taxes and taxes is one of several important life-savers in a civilised society. We can go to Greece today, where I have understood that one of the main challenges facing it is that it does not have a tax system that has legitimacy, nor an effective collection system for taxes. It makes them have a lot of problems now. Back to where I started: If you don’t have it in place, you also don’t have the means to distribute and allocate for good purposes in Norway – even in the world’s richest country with great oil wealth. I could talk about several things, but there are several of them that are already affected by the Council of State and the interpellant. But I would like to add that we, at least from the Labour Party, have full confidence that the government and State Council Johnsen will at all times promote the proposals that are needed to prevent different types of tax evasion. We also trust that the government will make the necessary data protection considerations when action is to be taken, and that proposals will be seen in this context. I respect the interpellant who prepares and says that he has no mistrust of the apparatus. I'm glad. But at the same time, he uses a lot of energy to argue against the proposals that the government has reinforced its efforts against tax evasion – quite apart from the fight against tax havens, which I believe are agreed upon. But I understood him there that he referred to the proposal made by the government in this year's draft budget, as marginal, i.e. modest, in the sense that a proposal for the purchase of cash services up to NOK 10 000, to be given to people, is a marginal proposal in the fight against tax evasion. I disagree. When, in addition, the interpellant spends a lot of time swirling down the proposals that have come from the sample to which it is referred, it might be fun to challenge the interpellant towards the end of this debate to say something about what proposals he and Right want us to put into practice in the fight against tax evasion, which I believe is an important struggle to carry out in Norway too. I want to thank you for an interesting interpellation, but I want to say that I have some challenges for the interpellant at the tame of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1699	I would like to thank the Right for promoting such an important interpellation. But there's a little distance between life and learning in the Right, which I want to come back to, because I think it's a little bit important right here. But I think it is interesting that the committee chairman commented that he felt that the Council of State Johnsen would promote the proposals that the Workers' Party will at any time support from here. I'm not quite sure what he said, but it was something like that. The Progress Party believes it is important to combat tax evasion, so the representative, Ms Mikalsen, also has our support there. We agree with the Council of State that such evasion affects law-abiding taxpayers. That's a consequence of that. But the rhetoric you use in such a context is not immaterial. Now we've got a relatively new state council relative to the one we had, which was pretty tough in the rhetoric. It created some sort of agitation in the tax collectors she herself was totally dependent on, which was totally unnecessary. It helps to suspect and weigh down sectors and individuals, e.g. in cases where the use of cash settlement has been natural for commercial reasons. We have had debates about the amount of banknotes or titles of employees in banking and insurance, etc. The kind of debate – which is very tabloid, and which is easy to go out with in the media – we have had many of them in the staging room. But whether they are significant and significant in general, we in the Progress Party have doubts. The government has at times shown great creativity in its struggle for millimetre-based tax justice. Such rhetoric and creativity can lead to situations in which the target allocates the means, because its taxpayers are not, and should not be, perceived as, potential tax collectors. The Progress Party will fight intensively against attempts to introduce further practices on the reversal of the burden of proof in tax matters, which were also discussed by the interpellant. The party experiencing that some of the recommendations of the Government Appointed Tax Exclusion Committee are an attempt to substantiate such a practice. It is also worth noting that the Progress Party went the farthest in opposing the government's proposal. We've also been the ones who've been more clear about marking and strengthening the treasurer's position in the face of a sometimes powerful and powerful tax system. We can agree with the interpellant that we would like to have a comprehensive review of the tax avoidance committee's position – there are 27 letters in that word, it is quite unique – and it could certainly be more appropriate. But it is natural – when we have not received it – that when these matters are promoted, as promoted by the State budget in 2010, in the State budget of the year, that parties who believe that we should have an overall review go against the proposals that we are dealing with in the Grand Duchy. But that's not what the Right didn't do. For example, we can do this. take the proposal that goes beyond the scope of disclosure, where there is an obligation to provide information to auditors and lawyers, who were an infringement, and where they are forced to report in if they receive clients that they suspect, for example. may be asked to do things to avoid taxes. There is a breach of privacy to the highest degree. Then, the text of the tax return was changed to «cautious and loyal» from the more anonymous text that was earlier in the case of individual taxpayers. Then I would like to mention – because this is quite essential – that the Right voted against our proposal to strengthen the position of taxpayers in relation to the tax authorities in the proposal on people with debt problems, and they also opposed the position of taxpayers when it came to the proposal on simpler car taxation. Here's a bit of a broken past, in which the Right might want to clean up before they go to such a general and fundamental attack in defense of tax collectors – when they themselves have so many pigs in the woods, unfortunately. But I'm happy if the Right turns, and if the Right is more on our line, we'll probably figure out the same thing in that area as well. A timely question to the Minister of Finance is whether he does not see any concern that the state is constantly strengthening the position of the tax authorities in relation to the weak party, which is the taxpayer, whether he sees the concerns at all. This applies, for example: where the tax authorities require answers within very short time limits, but use very long time limits when appropriate. Tax matters tend to go on over several years, which we read not least in the evening post the other day. And then maybe you should also start to show a little more gratitude to the taxpayers, which actually makes it possible for us to give money over the state budget at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1722	Representatives should be careful with regard to the use of terms such as ‘swine in the forest’ for a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1725	Thank you for your help, President! I will first give praise to the interpellant to address an important matter. The tax avoidance committee's attitude has aroused quite a debate, especially in professional environments, in some business circles and in legal circles, which actually calls out a warning that Norway is almost crucifying itself here. You break a lot of principles. To give the state some income, one is willing to compromise, at best, on other things. The right has therefore said that we want the whole matter to be dealt with in Stortinget. I think the Council of State should bear in mind that as it is now, the Council of State takes the proposals he likes at any time, or every day – it can change from year to year – and brings them individually either in budgets or in other matters. But what has left many of these issues is, as the finance minister said, that ‘it’s not certain’ that the government will take some of these proposals further, among other things. publication, domestic reporting requirements. He said it should not happen, but it is not certain that the government will take those proposals further. One of the problems that the Right has today, in view of the interpellation, after our proposal fell to not have it as a whole, is that then neither the controversial proposals are buried. They lie there and create an uncertainty, which we are absolutely sure the Minister of Finance does not want. But with the procedure of saying no to the Right proposal, one creates an uncertainty that should not be there. The mica and state council Johnsen might think there was a bit of an unfortunate undertone in Gundersen's theme. I might say that the undertone of the Tax Escape Committee was not quite good either. When you read the summary there, it almost seems like every penny that's earned, basically the state's, that the tax avoidance committee will have the most of them, and that some of the taxpayers and businesses will be criminalised. I think you should be a little neutral. The problem with accusations of ‘undertone’ is that when you don’t deal with the matter, you don’t get the tone of the government in these matters. There's a whole bunch of things going on. So that's how many people get a big problem. If you take this with the cash principle first, NOK 10 000 will be reported in Norway. It has already been adopted. If someone who is about to become a cohabiter, sells used furniture in each of their apartments and comes up to NOK 30 000–40000 in cash – they have sold sofas, they have sold TVs, they have sold beds, and then they have received money from 10–12 different buyers – and will take these NOK 30 000–40,000 with them and buy a new bed, a new reel and a new TV with cash, and go to a regular furniture dealer, who is not one of the big ones, and who does not report this further, it is the individual individual who is responsible for reporting it in the next round. Then you turn something on your head in relation to how you scratch red tape too. Other countries have also introduced a principle of reporting and deduction limits, but they have often said 100,000 or 50,000, not as low as 10,000. So to an overtramp, we had, among other things, a discussion in this Chamber not long ago about the publication of the tax lists. When this sample proposes that the names of the persons liable for additional tax should be published, that they should be posted to the local authority, that they should be posted on the network, greet the tax haven.no, the Minister of Finance should take this up as soon as possible. When the Minister of Finance answers no to the Right's question about raising the matter, he also gives the opportunity that this matter lives on, and there is no merit. In the same way, mistakes made by the tax office on your self-declaration or on your company’s self-declaration may become punishable to you both in terms of additional taxes and fines — and possibly imprisonment for that matter, if there are serious cases — and then often supplemented by the fact that you are also hanged in the locality for a mistake that started at the tax office. There are many mistakes, and these are some small things. But the reason why the Right has this interpellation is that we could have thought about getting things on a broader scale in order to get the whole discussion in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1746	As the Council of State had in mind, tax collection is a balance between trust and control. It is very demanding in practice. The public investigation, NOU 2009:4 Action against tax evasion, addresses this important but difficult issue, where at the end of the seventh, the details determine whether a person is acting correctly or not. Tax exemptions result in loss of income. There have been several people involved. It also distorts competition between those performing a service or selling a good. That distortion of competition is not least to be avoided by having good control of the system applicable to all. Deficiencies in tax-related offences lead to negative ring-effects. The economic situation in Sweden has been estimated to have a cost of about 5 pst. of gross domestic product. If the equivalent is true for Norway, we are talking about tax evasion of the order of 115 billion. kr. In terms of taxes and taxes, rules are one thing and tax morality is another thing. Tax morality is not least important to ensure that it goes right. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is very central to uphold the principle of taxation according to its ability. If we have taxes on ability at the bottom, i.e., with top taxes and wealth taxes on large, job-free incomes, we have a tax system that is very securely anchored, and that most people think is right. Thus, people also feel that it is reasonable that one pays the taxes and taxes that are levied on everyone, whether one has good or bad income. I would like to stress that there are many who have tight economic conditions, much more than what we are aware of. For these, it may be essential in some situations to try to get better out of it, and then it is important to bear in mind that the system is such that those with good skills provide more to the community. But as I said, this is very demanding. In the past, there was a large black economy related to childcare. There is not much left of it today. And why is that? Well, we've got an expansion of kindergartens and an economy related to having children in kindergarten that's so that it's taken away the foundation of the black economy in childcare to a great extent. There is a large amount of black economy today related to housing and housing. There could have been something done about it, but it then requires a different housing tax. It requires that you receive a deduction for maintenance and investment on the dwelling, but you cannot have it without having a symmetry with a corresponding income supplement for those who have a dwelling. In such a grip, one could remove some of what is a significant black sector: housing taxes. Travhorse is another theme, on which the Minister of Finance has the prerequisites to participate in the debate. It's an area where you could go in and make new rules, so that we could get rid of the significant black economy that's connected to the racehorse. Other areas are the control of Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises, the NUFs, which are extremely demanding and which should be able to be dealt with. We were at the moment aware that legislation for limited liability companies and self-employed workers can help to make things less topical with NUFs. Now we're going to have a new company form. It is known as the European Private Society, abbreviated to the SPE, which is intended to apply to small and medium-sized enterprises and where there are initially very small capital requirements. It will then be subject to company law rules in the country in which the company has its registered place of business. And here it's referenced to Greece and what's the system there. Well, here we see what might be the points. I just want to say, now we have to focus on the big, important, fundamental system changes. It's far more important than looking at the individual industries. It's far more important than looking at some small things. For example, the question of whether we are going to have the 1000 kroner bill as legal or not, or whether we are going to have it at all in Norway, I don't think we need to go into it. The 1000 kroner bill is an appropriate note. Weights have been put in place to weigh 100 kroner or 200 kroner – those who want to cheat will still do it. But for those who want to have a few notes in their wallet, $1,000 bills are better than a pile of other bills. So careful handling of individual matters, public information and simple rules can be a good prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1769	I want to start by thanking the interpellant to focus on a very complicated field. Fortunately, in Norway, both the Minister of Finance and the interpellant were involved in their introductions, most Norwegian taxpayers are law-abiding and comply with the legislation. But the few who don't, they underestimate great values. Clearly, the fight against tax evasion or the black economy has a lot of faces and facets. It has been referred to here as biased distribution — immoral, distorting and disfavoring for those who act in a clean and law-abiding manner. Another element is that the crime in Norway that is economically motivated is so numerous, it is drug crime, crime or profit. That kind of thing also depends on an interaction between the black and the white economy. Many of the organized, criminal corporations, to call them that, have a need to money laundering, and it's clear there's an interaction between the black and white economy that's their solution to making part of the criminal money into law-abiding money in an effort. In that perspective, legal certainty can be discussed for whom. I'm in favour of everyone having legal certainty, whether you're criminal or law-abiding. And I am of the clear opinion that it is the court that must ensure legal certainty, not politicians as such. In that perspective, I also want to comment on the interpellant's comment about the police special unit, which is investigating the police. The police are in a special position. They have, on behalf of the Storting, as the only establishment, been given the opportunity to use physical power. They are also the only state in the Norwegian community that has jurisdiction to prosecute and then can bring cases before the courts. It puts them in a special position. In all other departments it is that the control function of the Storting goes through the National Audit Office and that any other type of supervision may also be available to ensure that type of legal certainty. I think we should stick to that – that is an important principle. Tax evasion is, as I said, a multifaceted picture. I believe that many of the examples that the Right Party in particular has now mentioned in the Chamber today as a possible fear of what may come, in any case, will have to be debated if the government chooses to promote it. It is largely about legislative changes that need to be made, or regulatory changes that need to be made, or system changes that need to be made. So in this way, I believe that the government has already put in place a number of measures, not to prevent a good debate on the ability of taxpayers to be law-abiding, but also on the possibilities for taxpayers to have their legal certainty, as this must be done through ordinary law-making or other type of debate that makes it come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1783	I thank you for the debate even though I am a little disappointed that neither the SV, the Christian People's Party nor the Left took the floor. I very much agree with Breen that this is a complicated topic, and it is a topic that deserves debate. I also for once fully agreed with Lundtegen in his posts, but I think he bombed quite extensively on the theme. I'm not going to comment on that any more. But I want to come back a little bit to both Micalensen's and Johnsen's posts. It is clear, as I have repeatedly said, that tax evasion must, of course, be combated, and it is important that we have a system of legitimacy and that allows taxpayers to be treated in a fair way. Of course, tax evasion has the potential to undermine the entire system, and we cannot accept that. But to Micasen, when I used the marginal, I used it about interference with privacy and the legal security issue and that kind of thing. There was in particular no characteristic of the proposals as such. It was a kind of characteristic of the proposals in relation to the main points of the interpellation, and it's legal protection and it's privacy issues. I don't think neither the Micalen nor anyone else has taken it seriously. What does Right want? I can't see that tax evasion is a type of crime that is to be lifted out of the ordinary treatment of a legal society. That's what we're talking about. And ordinary crime has no legitimacy out there among people, just because we're dealing with it in a proper way. We're also going to do that in terms of tax evasion. I guess that's the main point. When it comes to Johnsen and making individual proposals, it's just the problem that individual proposals are legitimate and okay, but then you have a very easy time to forget the overall perspective, and you have a very easy time to forget the treasurer's situation in the whole thing. There, I would like to point out that we have significant challenges, and I am concerned about developments outside, which in particular the representative Mr Kambe was involved. There are many who are now facing a system where you do not understand the rules, you are being held responsible, and you can get dramatic penalties in the form of additional taxes and that this is imposed long before you can try it out before the court. It's a huge problem. If the majority doesn't want to take that debate seriously, I'm even more concerned, because it just deserves to get this principleal objection. But there is no objection to combating tax evasion – of course not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1796	I think this is an important debate. It is important for several reasons, not least because we are talking here about the part of the administration that provides the community income and that the Storting must try to manage as well as possible. Then there's a principle that I think is overwhelming, and that's that its power should use one in a way, as it's called in an old Norwegian word. This applies not least to the administration – that one should be aware of the position of power that one has, and of course the possibilities that one also has to exercise power in relation to the people. That's why we also have the principle of power distribution, and, as many people have said, the Stortinge is in charge of government and administration, and we also have a legal system that makes people try their case. I believe that the principle of legal certainty is fundamental in the Norwegian administration. I've had the pleasure of having a position from which I have leave, from which the legal security leg in relation to the individual's security, equality of law, is fundamental, so I think this is something that is in the backbone of the Norwegian administration. But it is clear that there may be examples that this is not good enough, and therefore the kind of debate we have today is important. The second point I want to make is that it's important that the tax system is so simple that it's understandable to people, and that you can also make it easier, for example. as has been done by electronic means, but it does not exempt the individual from checking that the declaration is correct. It was a bit – I kept saying – Festivitas when they sat down in the last days of January and filled out the declaration. It was in many ways a sort of rallying point for the people, and the fact that we have now received electronic tax returns, does not mean that you should not check, but then the legislation must also be such that people can see that this is done in the right way. Finally, in the light of the debate we have had today, I will see whether it is possible to give an overall status report on the work now being done in different areas in relation to tax evasion, so that we can also facilitate a discussion on the fight against tax evasion on a slightly wider front. But I would like to come back to that on a suitable occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1807	That being the case, it is no. 15 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1813	The cancellation is then ready to go to voting in the cases on the current map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1822	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1846	The Committee's position and proposal No 1 by the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are then voted on as an alternative. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to uncover the introduction of an investment fund for self-employed persons and to submit it to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1870	During the debate, Jørund Rytman has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Alternatively, between these proposals and the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e1921	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motion No. 2, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 4, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2764	It is voted over in the eighth sentence of the first paragraph of Section 9. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2778	It is voted over the rest of § 9. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2790	It goes over the rest of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2800	Then we're going to vote over VIII, the law on paper value trading, new section 17-5. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2814	We're still under VIII, and we're going to vote over the first sentence of Section 17-4. Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2829	All other paragraphs and paragraphs under VIII and II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, IX, X and XI shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2839	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2849	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2986	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e2996	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3104	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to contact the social partners and to offer tax relief as a contribution to a moderate wage settlement.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3130	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 2, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 4, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish, in the context of the 2011 State Budget, a subsidy scheme to stimulate the increased use of electric cars in public fleet operations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3160	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget for 2011 requires the government to review the overall level of car and car charges in order to reduce them.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3175	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Tax exemption is introduced for the leasing of battery in electric cars in the context of the revised State budget for 2010.’» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3192	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the removal of VAT on the leasing of electric cars in the context of the revised State budget for 2010.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3212	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-25.ana.ud1098e3312	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
